UUID:93F534C1- FSZC -4DA6-B2C8-7SSDBEDSCE18

 

  
 
 

chA-VI-AsoY-oIA-PR Redacted
illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I
. Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnlllllﬂlll
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name Accession #: ’
Med. Rec.#: Visit #2 “ Service Date
DOB: Sex: Male Received:
Soc. Sec. #: Location: - Client: a

Physician<si= —._— 105D a £5

 

 

S411 3’71 Luv ti. '
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS V 3 3/37); q

A. Soft tissue, right apex margin, biopsy: Vascular ﬂbroadipose tissue and
ﬁbromuscular tissue with chronic inﬂammation and cautery artifact, no deﬁnite tumor.

B. Periprostatic fat, resection: Benign vascular adipose tissue; no tumor, no prostate.

C. Left apex margin, biopsy: Prostatic adenocarcinoma with cautery artifact, in
ﬁbromuscular tissue.

D. Right obturator lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor in three lymph nodes (0/3).
E. Right external iliac lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor in four lymph nodes (0/4).
F. Left obturator lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor in two lymph nodes (0/2).

G. Left external iliac lymph nodes, dissection: Metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma in
one of four lymph nodes, 1 cm largest deposit (1/4).

H. Prostate gland, bilateral seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy:

1. Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 5+3=8, with extensive extraprostatic
extension, at inked margins; see comment.

2. Right and left seminal vesicles with no tumor.

COMMENT:
An extremely large, high-grade prostatic adenocarcinoma is identiﬁed in the anterior prostate from apex
to base (~3 x 2 x 2 cm) which shows extensive extraprostatic extension anterioriy, including into

detrusor muscle. The tumor is present at the anterior resection margin over an ~2.5 cm length (tumor
grade at margin is 5+3a8).

“ mum

 

”in :12...

In part A, a collection of small hyperchrornatic cells is present that appears to be a lymphocyte
aggregate, but the tumor has similar features. Therefore, immunohistochemical stains were performed
to discriminate between these possibilities and these show pankeratin staining negative, and Leukocyte
common Ag positive, supporting that this is chronic inﬂammation. No deﬁnite tumor is seen here, but
the tissue is severely cauterized.

Synoptic Comment for Prostate Tumors

- Type of tumor: Small acinar adenocarclnoma.

- Location of tumor: Predominantly anterior, from apex to base (tumor in all submitted slides, except
for lateral sections of bladder margin and right seminal vesicle).

- Estimated volume of tumor: ~12 cm3.

- Gleason score: 5+3; primary pattern 5 (80%), secondary pattern 3.

- Involvement of capsule: Tumor invades capsule.

- Extraproetatic extension: Extensive; anteriorly bilaterally from apex to base, and at prostate base.
- Margin status for tumor: Positive; Anterior margin at Apex (~1.5 cm of Gleason pattern 5; slides H1
and H2), near apex (~ 2.5 cm of Gleason 5+3=8), bladder margins (~ 0.2 cm of Gleason pattern 5;
slides H19 and H21).

- Tumor involvement of seminal vesicle: None.

- Perineural infiltration: Present.

- Lymph node status: Positive; in one of a total of thirteen (1.]13).

- Size of largest metastasis in node: 1 cm.

- Extranodal extension: None.

- AJCCIUICC stage: pT3aN1R1.

 

Specimen(s) Received
A:nght apex margin (FS)
BzPeri-Prcstatic Fat

CzLelt apex margin

D:Right obturator nodes
E:nght external Illac nodes
FzLeﬂ: obturator nodes

G:Left external lilac nodes
HzProstate & Seminal Vesicles

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 (A) Right aWatty tissue with cautery artifact, no tumor, no deﬁnite
prostate gland. \

Clllllcal History

OR Room and Phone # specimen : interoperaiive consults only)—
Colledlon Date

(30.86500 Tm

Relevant History2prostaie cancer
Pro-op Diagnosiezprosiate cancer

The patient is a.- ear- Id man with biopsy-proven prostatic adenocarcinoma reviewed at in
consultationﬂ confirming a diagnosis of prostatic adenocarcinorna, Gleason grade 4+3, with

tertiary Gleason pattern 5. He now undergoes robot assisted radical prostatectomy and pelvic
lymphadenectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A and H are received fresh, while Parts 3-6 are received in formalin.

Part A, additionally labeled “right apex margin,“ consists of a single soft, unoriented, red-tan, heavily

V Page20f4

 

cauterlzed tissue fragment (0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm). 'The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis 1, with the frozen section remnant subsequently submitted in cassette A1. ‘

 

Part B, labeled ”1 - ore-prostatic fat permanent," consists of multiple, soft, irregular pieces of yellow-tan
fat (3.5 x 2.8 x 0.8 cm in aggregate). The tissue contains no candidate lymph nodes. The specimen is
entirely submitted in cassette Bl. .

Part C, labeled ”3 - left apex margin,” consists of a soft irregular fragment of pink-brown tissue (0.4 x
0.2 x 0.1 cm). The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C1. r

Part D, labeled "4 - right obturator nodes," consists of multiple soft irregular pieces of yellow-tan fat
(2.7 x 2.5 x 1 cm in aggregate). The tissue contains three, firm, irregular pink-tan candidate lymph

nodes (0.4 cm x 0.3 x 0.3 cm-2.3 x 1 x 0.5 cm). Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as
follows:

D1: Two nodes.
DZ: One node, bisected.

Part E, labeled ”right external lilac," consists of a soft, irregular fragment of yellow-tan fat (5 x 3 x 1.3
cm). The tissue contains multiple, ﬁrm, irregular pink-brown candidate lymph nodes (0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3
cm-1.6 x 1 x 0.6 cm). Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as follows:

E1: Two nodes, one bisected.

E2: One node, bisected.

E3: Two nodes, each bisected.

Part F, labeled “left obturator nodes," consists of multiple, soft irregular fragments of yellow-tan fat (3 x
2 x 1 cm in aggregate). The tissue contains three, firm, irregular pink-brown candidate lymph nodes (1
x 0.5 x 0.3 cm-1.5 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm). Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as follows:

F1: Two nodes, one bisected.

F2: One node, bisected.

Part G, labeled 'left external lilac," consists of two, soft irregular pieces of yellow—tan fat (3.7 x 3 x 1.5
cm In aggregate). The tissue contains multiple, firm, irregular pink-tan candidate lymph nodes (05 x
0.5 x 0.3 cm-2.2 x 1 x 0.8 cm). Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as follows:

G1-GZ: One node, bisected.

G3: One node, bisected.

G4: Two nodes.

Part H is labeled "8 - prostate and seminal vesicles," and consists of a prostate with attached seminal
vesicles (39 gm; 3.5 cm from apex to base x 4 cm in width x 4 cm from anterior to posterior).

GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a firm, irregular, yellow-tan lesion in the left half of slices 1-4 (1.6 x
0.7 x 0.4 cm). It is 0.1 cm from the closest inked margin.

The anterior fibrous stroma is pink-tan, slightly roughened, and open; the remaining capsule is intact.
The remaining prostatic parenchyma is tan-white. The seminal vesicle/yes deferens bundles (right 5 x 2
x 0.5 cm; left 3 x 2 x 0.5 cm) are soft, slightly Iobulated, pink-tan, without obvious lesions or mass.
ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks; seminal vesicles, urethra.

INKING: Anterior right green, anterior left blue, posterior black.

GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes.

TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: (Not including apex and base margin slices): 5.

AVERAGE SLICE THICKNESS: 0.4 cm.

CASSE‘ITES: Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Apical margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections

H1: Right apex.

H2: Left apex.

Right half

H3: Slice 1.

Left half

H4: Slice 1, with lesion.
Right anterior quadrant

 

“r PagesoH

 

m .

H5: Slice 2.

H6: Slice 3.

H7: Slice 4.

H8: Slice 5.

Right posterior quadrant

H9: Slice 2.

H10: Slice 3.

H11: Slice 4.

Left posterior quadrant

H12: Slice 2.

H13: Slice 3.

H14: Slice 4.

Left anterior quadrant

H15: Slice 2, with lesion.
H16: Slice 3, with lesion.
H17: Slice 4, with lesion.
H18: Slice 5.

Bladder margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections
H19-H20: Right.

H21—H22: Lelt.

Prostatic/seminal vesicle junction and cross-section of vas deferens

H23: Right.

H24: Left.

For properly consented patients, sections of the prostate not required by Pathology for diagnosis, and
not submitted as described above, have been submitted to the for processing

and can also be available.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Dmg Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as lnvestigational or for research This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist following rovlew of all

pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations, including prosector work, and preliminary interpretations
performed by any resident involved in the case and performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

a
Electronically “gm

 

 

 

 

