TCGA—BB—4151
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Accession #:

Diagnosis:
Right kidney, nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear
cell type

Histologic grade (if applicable): 2 (of 4, -
classification)

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 6.7 cm diameter (gross)

Extent of tumor invasion:

Extra—capsular invasion: present, perihilar / renal sinus
fat (A9)

Renal vein: tributary involved (All), but not involving
renal vein margin (A1)

Ureter: not identified

Venous (large vessel): see above

Lymphatic (small vessel): not identified

Depth of invasion: n/a

Adjacent organs: none received

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: not involved
Renal vein: not involved

Renal artery: not identified

Ureter: not identified

Adrenal gland: not received

Lymph nodes: not received

 

Other significant findings: none
AJCC Staging: pT3 pNx pr

This staging information is based on information available
at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Clinical History:

The patient is a with a clinical diagnosis of a kidney mass
in the right kidney. As per -, abdominal CT shows a
mass of the right kidney that extends from the medial to
interpolar region and measures 7.3 x 5.6 cm. Smaller
lesions are also noted in the lower pole but are too small
to characterize.

Gross Description:

Received is one appropriately labeled container.

Specimen A is additionally labeled "right kidney".
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: total nephrectomy, right side

Side of specimen: right

Size and weight of specimen: Weight 600 g; the specimen
measures 16.0 x 9.5 x 6.5 cm overall; the kidney measures

12.5 x 5.6 x 6.0 cm.

Orientation: The specimen has been previously opened and
the perirenal fat has been inked blue.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: absent

Tumor description/site: The tumor is located in the lower
pole of the kidney and measures 6.7 x 3.7 x 2.5 cm; there
appears to be a thin capsule surrounding a portion of the
tumor; the tumor itself is yellow to gold in color with
focal areas of brown discoloration. No necrosis is evident.

Tumor size: 6.7 x 3.7 x 2.5 cm

Presence/absence of multicentricity: absent

 

Confinement/non~confinement to the kidney: confined

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: does not grossly involve
Gerota' s fascia: not present

Renal Vein: does not grossly involve

Ureter: does not grossly involve

Other organs: not applicable

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: negative; closest margin of
resection is 0.5 cm

Renal vein: negative; 2.0 cm away

Renal artery: negative; 2.0 cm aWay

Ureter: negative; 2.0 cm away

Description of kidney away from tumor: The remainder of the
kidney appears tan—brown in color with no evidence of other
satellite lesions or masses; the average medullary region
measures 1.2 cm.and the average cortical region measures
0.6 cm.

Lymph nodes (hilar): nonnidentified

Other significant findings: no

Tissue submitted for special investigations: no
Digital photograph taken: no

Block Summary:

Blue = perirenal fat; (margin of resection)

Al — vascular and ureteral margins

A2 — tumor in closest inked perinephric soft tissue
A3 ~ tumor and renal capsule

A4 — tumor with transition into normal parenchyma
A5—A6 — central tumor (two slices per cassette)

A7 m normal kidney, upper pole, one representative section
A8-A9 — tumor and adjacent urothelium

A10 ~ hilar fat, en face

All — additional section of tumor with urothelium

 

