   

TCGA - 66 — 2785

Material examined:

Left upper iobe, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma left central (squamous cell carcinoma (according to pathology i_).

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Upper lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed left upper lobe measuring 19 x 17 x 6 cm, central bronchus resection plane
located 0.4 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the bronchus to the apical bronchi. A staple suture line runs ﬁom
the hilus in a cranial direction for 6 cm and in a dorsal direction for 6.5 cm. At the hilus two nodes, 1.4 cm and
2.5 cm in size. Visceral pleura shows partly patchy and partly reticulate blackish pigmentation, in S3 3
paracentral irregularly protruding area of about 5 cm. Under this a moderately ﬁrm, pale brown to whitish, in
parts pale yellowish, softened tumor, max. 5.2 cm in size, with an arcuate conﬁguration, almost completely
obstructing B3 with endobronchial growth extending to within 0.1 cm of the bifurcation of B3. The parenchyma
surrounding the tumor is partly vitreous, partly compacted and yellow brownish. Rest of parenchyma relatively
marked patches of blackish pigmentation.

2.) Lobar LN (station 12) lingula: 2.3 cm node.

3.) Interlobar LN (station 11): 1 cm node.

4.) Hiiar LN (station 10) left: two nodes, 1.8 and 2 cm in size.

5.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) left: 1.5 cm node.

6.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: 0.3 cm node with abundant surrounding tissue.

7.) Prevascular and retrotracheai LN (station 3) left: 1.4 cm node with surrounding tissue.

8.) High paratracheal LN (station 2) left: 1,3 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

9.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 2.5 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

10.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): 1.6 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

11.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): 1 cm node.

12.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 0.7 cm lesioned node.

Examined:

l.) a: Tumor with B3, b: 2 sections of tumor with pleura, c:1 section of parenchyma in the tumor environment,
d: bronchus and vessel resection margins (tangential) and smaller hilar node, e: larger hilar node (lamellated),
2.) - 8.) All material (in 2.) - 4.) and 7.) lamellated in each case, smaller node in 4a), larger node in 4b)),

9.) —l.2.) Ali material (in 9.) + 10.) lamellated in each case),

18 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastaseJE’AS.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological findings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses: Central to paracentral, peripheral bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly
differentiated, large-cell and polymorphocellular, focal gigantocellular, nonkeratinizing squamous cell
carcinoma of the left lower lobe of the lung with a small differentiated glandular component, focal mucin
inclusions and localization in S3.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pNO pMX R0, stage IB.

C 34.1, M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses: Active chronic retention pneumonia in the tumor environment (sample 1.)),
lymph nodes with reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits (samples I.) to 12.)).

Remarkfaddendum: The carcinoma has inﬁltrated the paracentral visceral pleura enlarged by ﬁbrosis and
extends with endobronchial growth to within the immediate Vicinity of the bifurcation of B3. The ﬁnding is not
sufﬁcient for the diagnosis of an adencsquarnous carcinoma. The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels
and all excised and identiﬁed lymph nodes are tumor-free.

 

