 

SPECIMEN
A. Posterior segment right upper lobe
8. 2R fat pad
C. 4R fat pad
D. Level 7 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
PREWOP DIAGNOSIS: Ri ht lun mass.

  

- Diagnosed stage

I nonsmall cell carcinoma right upper lobe.
POST—OP DIAGNOSIS: Right lung mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh labeled "posterior segment right upper
lobe" is a 192 gram, 12.5 x 8.0 x 4.5 cm. portion of lung
tissue with a 12 cm. staple line along one aspect. The pleura is
dusky tan pink—purple with focal bullous formation. The staple line
is removed and the underlying soft tissue margin is inked orange.

On
the opposing aspect of the specimen is a focal area of pleural
retraction with subjacent induration in keeping with tumor. The
overlying pleura surface is inked blue and the specimen is
sectioned. There is a moderately well circumscribed, 4.5 x 3.8 x
2.7
cm. rubbery tan white lesion which approaches the pleural surface
to

within less than 0.1 cm. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The
remaining parenchyma is spongiform tan red—purple with focal
crepitance. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified.
Representative sections are submitted in 8 blocks as labeled. R88.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1—3 M Tumor to inked pleural surface; 4 — tumor to
normal parenchyma; 5 and 6 — staple line; 7 and 8 — random from
remainder of specimen documenting bullae.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
B. Received fresh labeled "2R fat pad" are three slightly
fragmented soft golden yellow to gray black tissues
ranging
from 0.35 to 1.4 cm. in greatest dimension. The specimens are
submitted in toto in one block. A81.
C. Received fresh labeled "4R fat pad" are four soft tan
gray—red tissues averaging 0.3 cm. in greatest dimension
which are submitted in toto. A81.
D. Received fresh labeled "level 7 lymph node" are four
fragmented soft gray black tissues ranging from 0.2 to 1.0
cm. in greatest dimension. The specimens are submitted in toto in
one block. ASl. -

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Adenocaroinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): Tumor is 4.5 cm in greatest dimension (pTZa).

Margins of resection: The stapled resection margin is negative for
tumor.

Direct extension of tumor: There is fibrosis and inflammation in
the pleural tissue adjacent to the tumor, but no extension of tumor
into pleura is identified. Elastic stains were evaluated.

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.

Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Specimens E, C and D regional lymph

nodes negative for metastatic tumor (pNO).

Distant metastasis (pM): Not evaluated, pMX.

Other findings: Emphysematous blebs with focal areas of hemorrhage

and prominent pigmented macrophages within expanded alveolar spaces
consistent with prominent hemosiderin deposition. No infectious

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

organisms are identified via AFB and GMS stains evaluated on

tissue

block A6.

5x1, 3x3, 18x1, 17x2

This case was ii new _

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lung, right upper lobe posterior segment, resection:
Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, tumor size
4.5 cm (pT2a).
Associated pleural scar, but no pleural infiltration
identified.
Emphysematous blebs and intraalveolar histiocytes with
hemosiderin.
No infectious organisms identified.

B. Lymph nodes, 2R fat pad, biopsy:
Negative for malignancy.

C. Lymph node, 4R fat pad, biopsy:
Negative for malignancy.

D. Lymph node, level 7, biopsy:

Negative for malignancy.

    

 

