labeors . ’
twéwim “Senna—I 15W 00ml, M0; 8380/3

5,111“. ﬁ‘lJle/W C'S'L/J ﬂ.)
/9ﬂ~ﬁ'

 

 

UUID:ADIFOEEC-2656-4163-9728-BC103D233387
TCGA-EO-A3L0-01A-PR R

edacted l
mﬂMWNHﬂWHMNHMMﬂmmHNMHmmHHH ' ”
mmmmmi 1mm

mmmm
mmmmmmmmm immmmmmﬂum

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

    

 

 

l
1‘ Omentum: bloply
2. Hemie Sec
3. Uterus: Uterus. cervix. bilateral tubes 5 ovaries
4. Lymph node: Peri aortic lymph node
5. Lymph node: Leil obturetor
6. Lymph node: Right obturator

 

Qlagnosie
1. Omentum:
- Negative for carcinoma

2. Hernia sac:
- Negative for carcinoma

3. Uterus. cervix, ovaries and fallopian tubes, bilateral:
Uterus:

ADENOCARClNOMA OF ENDOMETRlUM, ENDOMETRiOlD TYPE, GRADE 3/3:
— inﬁltration oi inner one half of myometrial thickness

- focal Iymphovascuiar space involvement

- cervix — negative for carcinoma

Other.

- adenomyosie

Ovaries:

- Negative for carcinoma

Fallopian tubes:

- Negative for carcinoma

4. Lymph nodes. para-acme:
- Negative for carcinoma (2 lymph nodes)

5. Lymph nodes. left obturator.
- Negative for carcinoma (3 lymph nodes)

6. Lymph nodes. right obturator.
- Negative for carcinoma (8 lymph nodes)

0093mm
immunohistodiemistry proﬁle:

 

all-III me‘

A_M~_M-»QWMM.W.._-_-M._--. Mace...“ t.,._..~.,...~..t..._,..._._ -_ R...” ..

 

 

 

 

 

 

’ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report 9
ER. PR - focally positive
P53 - negative
W
Specimen: Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Leit ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left tallopian tube
Omantum
Procedure: Simple hysterectomy
Bilateral saipingo—oophorectomy
Omentectomy

Lymph Node Sampling:

Specimen integrity.
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:
Histoiogic Type:
Histologlc Grade:
Myomelrlal invasion:

involvement at Cervix:

Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
Performed: Para-aortic lymph node:
intact hysterectomy specimen
Other. tundue
Greatest dimension: 5.6 cm
Endometrioid adenocarclnoma, not otherwise characterixed
F lGO grade 3
Present
Myometrial thickness: 28 mm
Lean than 50% myometrial invasion
Not involved

Extent of involvemen of Other Organs:

Margins:

Lymph-Vascular invasion;
TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):
Regional Lymph Nodes (le:

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

.___4

 

Right ovary not involved
Left ovary not involved
Right fallopian tube not Involved
Lel't fallopian tube not involved
Vagina not applicable
Right parametrlum not applicable
Lett parametrlum not applicable
Omentum not involved
Rectal wall not applicable
Bladder wail not applicable
Pelvic well not applicable
Bladder mucosa and/or bowel mucosa not applicable
Uninvoived by invasive carcinoma
Present
Not applicable
tha (lA): Tumor limited to endometrlum or invades less than 1/2 of the myometrlum
pm): No regional lymph node metastasis
Pelvic lymph nodes examinedr 11
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 2
Para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 0
Not applicable
None identiﬁed

._.—_._..,._—___..__._.—

ﬁlectronically veriﬁed by:

 

 

PageZoN

 

N surgical Pathology Consultation Report !

Clinical Hm
endometrlal ca

Win

1. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Omentum: Biopsy". it consists of a large unor'iented segment of
omentum measuring 350 x 11.5 x 2.0 cm; weighing 171.5 g (fresh). Cross sections of the specimen appear
homogeneously yellow-ten. focally hemorrhagic and otherwise unremarkable. No distinct lesions or tumors are grossly
identified.

1A-1E representative sections submitted

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as 'Hemla See“. it consists of multiple unoriented pieces of yellow-
tan. partly hemorrhagic. soft to firm tissue ranging in size from 2.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm up to 10.0 x 6.0 x12 cm. Closer
examination reveals that part of the specimen hes a membranous appearance. The remainder of the specimen is
otherwise unremarkable. No distinct lesions or tumors are grossly identiﬁed. ’

2A representative sections submitted

3. The specimen. labeled with the patients name and as "Uterus: Uterus. cervix. bilateral tubes & ovaries". The specimen
is received fresh and subsequently placed in 10% buffered formalin. it consists of a uterus with attached cervix. bilateral
ovaries and fallopian tubes; weighing 140.0 g (fresh). The body of the uterus is uniform and measures 10.4 cm Si x 8.1
crri ML x 5.6 cm AP. The serossl surface is purplish—pink. focally hemorrhagic and smooth. The cervix has a maximum
diameter of 2.5 cm. The cervical Os measures 0.7 cm in maximum diameter and has a "slit-like“ shape. The uterus is
blvalved. The endometrlum is not a unlfomi thickness. The andometrlai cavity is 95% occupied by a large. fungsting.
pele~tan tumor measuring 5.5 cm Si x 5.3 cm ML x 3.7 cm AP. The tumor shows gross invasion into the myometrium and
is located 2.6 cm from the posterior exocsnrlx, 2.5 cm from the anterior exocervix and 1.0 cm from the closest serosal
surface (posterior aspect). The cut surface of the tumor appears homogeneously white-tan, solid in the center and friable
towards the periphery. The myometrium is not of uniform thickness, ranging from 1.6 up to 2.8 cm. Cross sections reveal
multiple intramural ﬁbrolds. The largest measuring 2.5 cm in diameter and is located within the anterior aspect of the
uterus. Cut sections of the fibroids appear homogeneously white and firm. showing a typical whorled appearance. The
endocervicel canal measures 2.5 cm in length. is patent and shows small amounts of mucoid material. The cervix reveals
multiple tiny Nabothlan cysts. the largest measuring 0.2 cm in diameter. All of the Nabothian cysts are filled with clear
gelatinous material. The right ovary measures 1.7 x 1.2 x 1.0 crrl. The surface of the right ovary appears pale-tan and
smooth. Cross sections show corpus alblcans. The right fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm In diameter.
The surface of the right fallopian tube appears purplish—pink and smooth. Cross sections appear pale-tan and grossly
unremarkable. The left ovary measures 1.6 x 0.7 x 1.0 cm. The surface of the left ovary appears pale-tan and smooth.
Cross sections show corpus albicans. The left fallopian tube measures 6.5 cm in length x 0.6 cm in diameter. The surface
of the left fallopian tube appears purplish-pink and smooth. showing a few paratubular cysts; the largest measuring 0.4 cm
in diameter (filled with white milky ﬂuid). Cross sections appear pale-tan and grossly unremarkable. One section from .
each ovary/fallopian tube. as well as two pieces of endometrial tumor has been stored frozen. Representative sections are
submimsd as follows:

3A left fimbria. longitudinally trisectad

SB sections of left fallopian tube. arm-cent to tissue banking

SC remainder of left fallopian tube.

30 sections of left ovary, adjacent to tissue banking

SE-aF reminder of left ovary,

3G right fimbrla, longitudinally t. meted

3H sections of right fallopian tube. ad'went to tissue banking

3i remainder of right fallopian tube. "

SJ sections of right ovary, adjacent usaue banking

3K-3L remainder of right ovary, ‘

3M 6 full-thickness, transverse section of endo/myometrium with tumor (including some normal endomotriumadjacent to
(undue). anterior aspect

3N-30 a full-thickness. transverse section of endolmyomelrlum with tumor (including largest ﬁbroid) bisected, anterior
aspect

3P-SQ a full length/fuil-thlckhess section of endolmyometrlum wilh tumor (bisected), from endomstriai cavity to exocervix.
anterior aspect

areas a full-thickness/ transverse section of endo/rnyometrlum with tumor (including intramural fibroids: bisected).
posterior aspect

3T-3U a full-thickness] transverse section of endolmyomatrium with tumor (bisected). posterior aspect (block 3U contains
tumor wim closest serossl surface)

 

 

Surgical Petrology Consultation Report a—

3V one full-thickness! transverse section of normal endolmycmetrium (adjacent to furious), posterior aspect
3W-3X a full iength/fuil-thlcknesa section of endolmyometrlum with tumor (bisected), from endometriai cavity to exooervix.
posterior aspect

4. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Lymph node: Pen-aortic lymph node” consists of a piece of
libroadipose tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm and contains two lymph nodes that measures 0.5 and 0.7 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

4A one lymph node

43 one bisected lymph node

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph node: Left obturator‘ consists of a piece of flbroadipose
tissue that measures 4.9 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm and contains two lymph nodes that measures 1.9 and 2.9 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

5A one bisected lymph node

58-60 one lymph node. serially sectioned and submitted in toto

6.. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph node: Right obtulator' consists of a piece of
librcadlpose tissue that measures 5.0 x 3.9 x 1.5 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.3 to 1.9 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

6A multiple lymph nodes

68-60 one bisected lymph node. per block

 

 

- W

