Provo ’3

:3 3 941505
WW N03
9450/ 3

5.1:. W,Wms

. Q7! 0
Surglcal Pathology Report ,
Patient Name: Phone #: Accession #: 9‘11) 7/24], 3
Med. Rec. #: Client: Taken:
DOB: (Age: ) Location: Received:
Gender: F Accnt: Reported:
Physician(s):
Phy Location:
Clinical History

woman experiences headache, and on imaging has a 7 cm right medial frontal

lesion that
expands gyri. involves mid and anterior cingulate gums, and is devoidof enhancement.
Operative Diagnoses
Brain tumor
Operation l Specimen

A: Cortical lesion, excision biopsy

B: Medial frontal tumor, excision biopsy

Pathologic Diagnosis

A. Bone, site not specified, excision: Lamellar bone, hyperostotic.

B. Brain, medial frontal. excision: Oligodendroglloma (WHO 2).

1p, 19:: LOH (codeletion): Positive.

IDH1: Positive.

Methylated MGMT: Positive.

MlB-1 proliferation index: Up to 6%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

Comment

The sections contain portions of cerebrum that are focally slight to moderately inﬁltrated by a glial
neoplastic

proliferation that has an oligodendroglial phenotype. There is one proliferation center where there is
mitotic activity

and a MlB—1 proliferation index of 6%; the proliferation index elsewhere is up to about 2%. There is not
endothelial

cell proliferation, microvascular cellular proliferation or tumor necrosis.

The neoplasm overall is a low histological grade oligodendroglioma (WHO 2). There is a proliferation
center in which

there' Is a moderately heightened mitotic and cycling activity. As an isolated finding the meaning of these
proliferation

centers :3 uncertain. They are not enough for upgrading the neoplasm; but may portend enhanced
biological activity,

and may perhaps be precursors of transformation.

The morphological features of this tumor may be correlated with clinical, imaging, and operative ﬁndings
for their

interpretation and patient's follow up.

it. ' " k“ '
Elecuomcally Slgned OUt UUID:163325D0-4CEA-4AC4-AC8A-117D492é4eBBBac

SEﬂiOf Staff Pathologist TCGA- DU- A652- 01A- pR
iii'ii'i'”'”"iiil'ii'ii'iiiiiii'iiiii""“"”'""
Consultant: Senior Staff Pathologist ||||||||II”III“IIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||||||||||||I|||||||||||||Il|
ProceduresIAddenda

Loss of Heterozygosity 1p, 19q Assay (LOH)

Date Ordered: Date Reported:
interpretation
POSITIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm 19q is detected.
lnforrnative loci are: D18548, D181592, 018552, 01981182
Results-Comments
Testing peIformed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block DNA extracted from a
corresponding ‘
blood specimen was used as a normal reference control.
Only one of 5 loci on chromosome 19q is informative. Based on LOH at 01981182, LOH of 1p and
morphology of
oligodendroglioma, ﬁndings are consistent with deletion of 1911 as well. Clinical and morphologic
correlation is
recommended.
TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA (baseline)l Tumor DNA
pairs using 3
markers at both 1p and 19q. The 3 markers on 1p are D1 8548, 0181592, and 018552 (with D1 8468,
D181612, and
D18496 as backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19o are 0198219, D198412, and PLAZG4C (with
D198606 and
D1981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites (2 or 4 nt repeats) except PLA264C which is a
minisatellite (26
nt repeat) polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score, amplicon size, and
ease of
interpretation. The backup markers are used 'rfthe ﬁrst line markers at that chromosome arm are
uninforrnative or
otherwise ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each chromosomal arm
represents the
typical ﬁnding in oligodendrogliomas with 1p and 19q deletion.
FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand-alone diagnostic
test. This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
as required
by CLIA ' 88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures
and/or diagnostic criteria.
TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non-neoplastic cells in the sample may preclude the
detection of
allelic loss.
”Electronically Signed Out***
Senior Staff Pathologist
MGMT Promoter Methylation
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.
Results-Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor parafﬁn block (B2)
H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.
Surgical Pathology

, Page 3 of 4
TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter have been shown to
beneﬁt

from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulﬁte
treatment of

DNA followed by real-time PCR ampliﬁcation of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences. The
analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial dilution of methylated positive control DNA into
unmethylated DNA, and was assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated
DNA. Factors
such as the presence of >50% non-neoplastic cells in the sample, or extensive tissue necrosis, may
preclude the
detection of methylated MGMT promoter sequences.
FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic
test. This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
as required
by CLIA '88 regulations. it has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures
andlor diagnostic criteria.
“*Electronicaliy Signed Out'“

Senior Staff Pathologist
Intra-Operativc Consultation
B.
Medial frontal tumor, excision biopsy: Cluster of atypical glial cells, consistent with glioma, possibly
oligodendroglioma (need to examine entire specimen). Touch preparation smears
performed at

and results reported to the Physician of Record.

Senior
Staff Pathologist
Gross Description
A.
Cortical lesion, excision biopsy: SITE: cortical lesion. F IXATIVE: Formalin. TYPE: nodular bone fragment.
NO.
PIECES: 1. SIZENOL: 0.8 cm. CASSETTES: A1 —decal, NS.
B

Received fresh, a block of cerebral cortex and adjacent white matter, 3.1 cm. Focally, grey-white matter
junction is
ill-deﬁned. Serially sectioned. In total, B1 -B3.

Microscopic Description

iMMUNOHISTOCHEMlSTRY: The neoplastic cells are uniformly reactive with IDH1. The CD163 depicts
somewhat

prominent perivascular microglia. With the MlB-1 the proliferation index is about 6% in the proliferation
center, and

about 2% in the remainder tumor.

lCD-9(s): 237.5 237.5

Billing Fee Code(s):

Histo Data
Part A: Cortical lesion, excision biopsy
Taken: Received:
Surgical Pathology
Page 4 of 4
Stain/cm Block Ordered Comment
Decal x 1 1
H&E x1 1

Part B: Medial frontal tumor, excision biopsy
Taken: Received:
Stainlcnt Block Ordered Comment
H&E x 1 1

TPS HSE x1 1

CD163 Vector x1 2

H&E x1 2 ’

lDH1-sid x 1 2

LOH-sld x 1 2 '

MGMT-curls x 1 2

MlB1-DA x 1 2 '

H&E x 1 3

:rlterll
ivagnosis Oligrepancy

rlnmy Tumor Sit—epiSC'EEEIlCY

IIPAA Discrepancy
rier MalIEnancv History

In.) ’imt’l n.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ivalliynrh. .irmus Primary
M

an is (circle):

.ev‘ewcr initials

QUAUFI / DISQUALIFILD
a e reviewed:

 

