fun”

    

DOCTOR:
DATE OF SERVICE:

Pathology Consultation Report

Final
CASE:
UUID: 67BG-I7EFA- AECB- 4056- AF17-8AAE1FF66563d ted

"1‘ . I TH L GY IAGNOSIS:
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

- Focal low grade dysplasia ||I| ||II||| IIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII“
“My, IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

‘ No pathclcgic diagnosis
C - Apical urethral surgical margin, resection

« Urothelial with reactive atypia
D ~ Urinary bladder, radical eygtectamy

Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder (transitional carcinomaI /C£3,,0-3

» High grade (grade 3/3)

: fetid pattern U \ , M0 ,{ Z 4’ N115 9/.10/3

my — Invasion into the inner half of the muscular propri a J}fp 1 bladduv N0I C1174
— Multifocal lymphcvascular invasion /

~ All surgical margins {right and left ureteral. urethral and soft

tissue margins} Z/ EQ’
free 0f tumor involvement

Carcznuma in aitu/high dysplasia, mulcifccal involving urothelium
- Brunner 3 near with high grade dysplasia/carcinema in situ
Granulomacoua inflammation of the mucosa
Reactive changas of the mucosa
Right ureter, high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in situ
Left ureter, high grade dysplasia/careinoma in situ
9r0scata. pending microscopic examination

E ~ Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection
» One out ten lymph nodes with microscopic metastatic carcinoma

F - Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection
- Two out of eleven Iymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma

G « Let: common iliac lymgh nodes, excision
Eleven lymph nodea without carcinoma

H ~ Right Gammon iliac lymph nodes, dissecticn
Six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma

  

r - Presacral lymph ncdes. resection

    
 
  
   
    

wimuymmn anIIeDiW‘ IIa "CY

IIPMDW P "

."ogmli us anch In"?

In amvnchw D'WS" ‘“"'""
I .

m- “I I ink): '4 a

Win“ IdI—~;_

  

 

 

 

 

 

Six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma

J » Paravaortic lymph nodes, excision
Two lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma

K - Precaval lymph node, exciaion
One lymph Roda without metastatic carcinoma

L . Discarded segmant of bowel, segmental resection
Small bowel wall without diagnostic alteration

M ~ Proximal margin, left ureter, excision
No patholoqic diagnosis

N ~ Distal right ureter, segmen:al resection
Focal low grade dysplasia

PATHOLOGZET:
K have reviewed this material anﬁ conﬁirm the raport. Released by
electronic signature on: ' ‘ ‘

MATERIAL;

A. Right distal ureter; 8. Left distal ureter: c. Apicai margin. o.
Urinary bladder

E. Left pelvic lymph nodas. F. Right pelvic lymph uoﬁes. GI Left
common iliac lymph nodes. H. Right common iliac lymph nodes. 1.
Fro-sacral lymph nodes. J. Para~aortic lymph nodoa. K. Pre«caval
lywph nodes. L4 Discarded segment of small bowel.

M. Proximal margin of left ureter. N. Distal right rater. O.
Prostate.

INTRAOPBRATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
AFB Right distal ureter excision

~ Lower grade dysplasia versus high grade dysplasia; suggest
additional resection
- (Reported to

; V.

BPS Left distal ureter excision

 

Page 2 95 I1

 

 

Mm,

~ No dysplasia
“W m M

v No carcinoma
- (Roported to

CFs Atypical urothral margin, biopsy
~ No oysplasia
~ No carcinoma

(Reported to

HISTORY:
with bladder cancer.
GROSS:
AwRecolved fresh labeled as right distal ureter is a tan pink
unoriented aegment of ureter (0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm}. Entirely submitted

for frozen section in AFS.

B-Roceived fresh labeled as left distal ureter is a tan pink unoriented
segment of ureter (0.3 x 0.3 x 0‘2 cm). Entirely submitted for frozen
section in BPS. I

C—Roceived fresh labeled apical ureteral margin is a tan—pink.
unoriented. 1rregular piece of tissue measuring 1x0.5x0.3:m. Entirely
submitted for frozen aoction in CFS.

H B, A radical oyotoprostdtectomy specimen consisting of a urinary

bladder (9.0 x 7.0 x 2.9 cm when opened); a prostate gland; and
attached perivesical adipose tissue (overall measurements: 15.0 x 6.0 x
4.0 om)‘

Located in the anterior, posterior. right, and loft walls oi the
urinary bladder, there is a modular firm lesion 57.0 x 4‘5 cm).
Sections through the lesion exhibit a firm white losio that Extends to
a depth of 2.06m into the muscularis and adipose tissuev The orator:
are not identified in the agocimen. The remainder of the urinary
bladder mucosa is edematous and red. The specimen £3 sequentially
sectioned inferior portion to the dome, and representative sections are
Submitted in thirty-five cassettes: 01“DJS.

ink code: Blue — anterior
Black — posterior
Red ~ right
Orange — left

Sectlon code:

D1 Anterzor rlght bladder wall
DZ posterior bladder wall

DJ Fosterior bladder wall

Dd Anterior left bladder wall
05 Anterior right bladder wall
D6 Right bladder wall

 

Page 3 of 11

 

D7 Left bladder wall

[)8 Right ante-rim: bladder wall w

09 Right posterior bladder wall

010 Left posterior bladder wall

011 Right posterior blender wall {possible ureter}
012 Left posterlor bladder wall (possible ureter)
013 Left anterior bladder wall

914 Right posterior bladder wall

DIS Left pesterzor bladder wall

016 Pasterior central bladder wall

317 Posterior central bladder wall

518 Pustericr right bladder wall

019 Left posterior bladder wall ,

020 Posterior central bladder wall

321 Left anterior edematoua area

D22 Posterior Central bladder wall

D23 Anterior left bladder wall

324 Right posterior bladder wall

D25 Right posterior bladder wall

D26 Left posterior bladder wall

527 Right posteriar bladder wall

028 Left anterior and posterior bladder wall
D29 Deepest right posterior portion of lesion
D30 Left posterior bladder wall

031 Representative section of dome

D32 Representative section, dome

D33 Representative aection of dome

‘_D34 Possible lymph node

D35 Possible lymph nudes ,

E—Recelved in formalin, labeled ”left pelvic lymph nodes", are multiple
pieces of tanmyellow fibroadipose tissue, aggregating to 9.5 x 5.5 x
2.5 cm in eize. Twelve possible lymph nodes, ranging in size from 0.5
x 0.3 x 0.2 cm to 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm in size are dissected. The Cut
surfaces of all the above lymph nodes are tan-brown with interspersed
fatty areas. No discrete lesinn is identified, groaely.

The lymph neﬁes are Submitted as follows:

EleS single lymph node, serially sectioned, aubmitted entirely
EE~EB single lymph node, serially sectinned, submitted entirely
89 two lymph nodes, submitted entirely

310 two possible lymph nedes, submitted entirely

all two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely

512 four possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely

F-Received in farmalin. labeled “right pelvic lymph nodea”, are
multiple pieces af fibrcadipose tissue, aggregating to 8.5 x 6.0 x 2.5
cm in size. Eleven possible lymph nodes. ranging in diameter fram 0.5
x 0.5 x 6‘2 cm to 3.0 x 2.4 x 2.0 cm in size are dissected. The cut
surface of the lymph nodes is tanvpink with interspersed fatty areas.

?he lymph nodes are submitted as follaws:
F1~F3 ingle lymph node, serially sectloned, submitted entirely

 

Page 4 of 11

Fd-FS aingle lymph node, serially sectioned, Submitted entirely
‘”*. F6 F8 single lymph nod. serially aectioned, submitted entirely
two lvm h.node$ >submitted entire

      
   

F10 four yossible lymph nodes, Submitted entirely
F11 single lymph node, submitted entirely

GwReceived in formalin labeled as "left cemmoa lilac lymph umdes“ are
multiple fragments of tan-yellow lcbulated fibroadlpose tissua {5.5 x
4.0 x 0.9 cm). The specimen is predominantly yellow lobulated adipose
tissue with streaks of tan fibrosis and multiple possible lymph nodes.

The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple possible lymph nades
are identified ranging in size from 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 am up to 1.1 x 1.0
x G.5 cm. Multiple lymph nodes arc submitted entirely in five
cassettes, Gl.GS.

Section Code: a
G1 one lymph node, bisected ﬁ‘
62 tau: possible lymph nodes
83 two possible lymph nodes
64 two possible lymph nodes
as two possible lymph nodes

H-Received in Eormalin labeled ”right comeu llLaC lymph nodes“ is a
specimen at fibrofatty tissue (5‘4 x 2.4 x 1.0 cm). The external
surface of the tisgue is primarily yellow labulated adipose tissue.

The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple possible lymph nodes
.are idantlfied ranging in size from {0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm up to 2.0 x o_a

“ "x 6.5 cm). Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes,
leHQ.
Section Code:
Hl two possible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
H2 one possible lymph node, submitted entirely
83 two passible lymph nodes, submitted entirely
H4 one lymph node, bisected, submitted entirely
I-Received in formalln labeled, as "yrs—sacral lymph ncdes“ is a 4.0 x
3,0 x 0,5 cm irregular portion of adipose tissue. The specimen is
serially sectioned and six lymph nodes at: identified ranging in size
from 0.4 ta 1.3 cm,
Section Cede:
:1 one lymph nude
I2 two lymph nodes
I3 three lymph nodes
J«Received in formalin labeled, as "para—aortic lymph nades“ are two
tan~pink lymph nodea meaSuring 6.8 and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension
each.
Section Code:
Jl one lymph node, trisecned

Page 5 at 21

 

 

 

  

 

J2 one lymph node, trisected.

K~Recexved in formalin labeled, as 'pre—caval lymph nodes” are two
lymph nodes measuring 2.0 and 3.0 cm.

 

Section Cede:
K1 one lymph node
K2 one lymph noda

L-Received in farmalin, labeled "discarded segment of bowal”, is a
segment of bowel {4.4 x 2.5 x 1.6 cm). The speczmen 15 not oriented.
The specimen is stapled closed and has a tan—pink aerosal surface with
attached mesenCeric adipose tissue. The specimen is opened and the
muccsa is green-brown with normal mucosal folds. There are no polyps,
ulcexs, or grossly identifiable laaions. Representative sections are
submitted in three cassettes, labeled L1~L3.

M-Received in Ecrmalin, labeled "proximal margin, left ureter", la a
ureter with attached tissue (2.3 x 2.0 x 0.6 cml. The external surface
of the tissue is yellow-pink, soft, and lobulated. One staple is
attached to the specimen. A ureter i9 identified and gerially
sectioned. Cut surface is without lesions or masses. Rnpresentative
sactions are submitted in two cassettes. labeled leMZ.

Seccian Cede:
M1«M2 proximal margin of left ureter, aubmitted antirely an end

waecelved in formalin, labeled "distal right ureter", is a ureter
kpeclmen with attached tissue i2.) x 1.1 x 0.5 cm). The external
surface 0! the tissue is canupink with attached lobulated adipose
tissue. One staple i5 identified on the specimen. The specimen is
serially sectioned and no masses or lesions are identified grossly. The
specimen is Submitted entirely in cassettes N1~N2.

Section Code:
N1<N2 distal right ureter, serially sectioned. submitted entirely

MICROSCOPIC:

A — Sections snow cross sections of ureter with low grade dysplaSia
involving the urmthelium, Obvious high grade dysplasxa or invasive
carcinoma is not identifxed.

3 ~ Sections Show cross sections 0: ureter without dysplastic changes.

rs

a - Sections Show urothelial together with underlying muscle. There is
raactive atypia of the urothelium. Dysplasia is not identified.

Page 6 0E 11

 

 

 

invasion

Sections show urothelial carcinoma, high grade {transitional cell

f'“”.:ar01noma grade 3/3}. The tumor ahowe a solid growth pattern‘ There

I is minimal papillary formation. The tumor invades into the inner half
of the muscularis propria. There are many areas of lymphovaecular

”Mi,

  
 

in the tumor mass, at the tumor advancing edge and away

from the main tumor mags. There is no obvious perineural invasion.
The surgical margins {right and left ureral, urethral and soft tiesue
margins) are free of tumor involvement,

The urothelium adjacent to the invasive carcinoma show nigh grade
dysplaeia/carainoma in Situ.

The urothelium away from the main tumor shows several changes including
reactive atypia, low grade dysplasia, high grade dysplaaia/carcinoma in
situ. Brunner'a meets with high grade dysplasia/ carcinoma in situ are

present.

Several areas of the urothelium are lost. The Mucosa shows

a few granulomas with multinocleated giant cells. There is also
fibrosis. acute and chronic inflammation of the mucooal portion not
involved by tumor tissue.

Sections of the right and left ureters Show focal areas of high grade
dysplasia/caruinoma in situ‘

S w Sections Show ten lymph nodes. One of them Show a microscopic
focus or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma.

F ~ Sections ehow eleven lymph nodes, two of them show metastatic

«excarcinoma.
Iodes meauring up to 3.5 mm and 6 mm, reepectively,

G .

H -

L ..

M ..

Sectiona

Sections

Sections

Sections

Sections

Sections

Sections

The maximum size of the metastases are about 3 mm in lymph

Show eleven lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.
show six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.

show six lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.

show two lymph nodes without metastatic carcinoma.

show one lymph node without metastatic carcinoma

chow terminal ileal wall with no diagnostics alteration.

show cross sections of ureter with no dyeplaeia or

carcinoma invasive.

N — Sections show cross section of ureter with focal low grade
dysplasia.

”who

High grade dysplasia or carcinoma is not identified.

 

Page 7 o

;:
r

11

 

 

TUMOR SYNOPTIC REPORT AND STAGING:

SpeCLmen: es
Procedure: Radical cysteccomy with me a: dissection
Tumor size: 7 cm.

 

Histologic type: Urothelzal carcinoma. hlgh grade {transition cell
carcinoma grsde 3/3)

Associated epithelial Lesion: Multifocal high grade dysplasia/

carcinoma in situ

Hishalogic grade: High grade

Microscopic tumor extension: Involvement of the inner half of the

muscularis

Margin status: NegatLva
Lymphovascular invasion Multifocal lymphovascular 1n7asion
Primary tumor: Tza

Lymph node N2

Distant Metastasis: Ma

Stage grouping: Stage IV
Site of distant metastases None

 

Page 1 of 1

SURGICAL PATHOEDGV
DICTATED BY:
This report was verified electronically.

 

 

 

"““ DATE OF DISCHARGE:

    

DOCTOR:
DATE OF SERVICE:

Patholagy Consultation Report
Supplamental

CASE:

REASON FOR ADDENDUM:
Addendum issued to repat findings of gross and micrcscopic examination
of prostate following formalin fixation and wholevmount processing.

ANATOMIC PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS:
Prostate, radical cysteprostatectomy
« Focal invasive urothelial carcinoma into prostdtic atrcma
Extensive urothelial carcinoma in~situ involving prostate, w&th
prostatic duct and acinar involvement
— Urethalial carcinoma in situ involving ejaCula:ory duct and
seminal vesicle
~ No lymphovascular invaaion seen
~ No prostate adenocarcinoma
~ Margins negative £0: urothelial carcinoma

PATHOLOGIST; .t
I have reviewed this material and confirm the report: Released by
electronic signature on: ‘ :

MATERIAL:

O. Prostate .

HIﬁTORY:
with bladder cancer.

09033:

0. Received in formal n and labeled prnstate is a pzostate with
attached bilateral seminal vesicles which tmgether weigh 84g. The
prcstate itself weighs 649, and measures 4.5cm inferior to superzer;
6.0cm transversely; and 5.0cm anterior to posterior.

Page 9 of 11

 

wnu-W—«a-m‘m ...W--w-m

.m. «WM 55...“..M. __ .n

am“. - ,

 

 

’FiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'II'ii g !III I I ,IAJI II

=ollowing formalin fixation, the prostate margins are inked: the rlgh:

side in black, the left side in blue. Cut surfaces 0f nonsurgical
margins are inked as orangel

The apical margin is removed and submitted in a sane—like fashion. The
remainder of the gland is sectioned bilaterally in the sagitcal plane
along either side of the prostatic urethra, Cut surfaces are smooth
pink to tan glistening, with areas of large modularity and cystic
structuren. Th3 apex orifice is irregular and dilated to 1.0cm in
greatest dimension. The proatatic urethra is hemorrhaglc, with focal
areas of necrosis.

The seminal vesicles have gray‘white. semitranslucent walls at normal
thickness.

Sectiau code:

Plud Apex margin

p: Whole-mount prostate, sagittal plane, left side

P6 Whole-mount prostate, sagittal plane, right side

P7-13 Sequential sections of prostate, apex to base, left side
pl4w21 Sequential sections prostate, apex to base, right sxde
P22 Representative sections of left seminal vesicles

P23 Representative section, right seminal vesicles

MICROSCOP I C :

Sections of prostate Show extensive urothelial carcinoma inmsitu
nvolving almost entire prostate. Thare are ductal as well an acinar
lnvolvement. Fatal atromal invasive carcinoma LS seen. In addition. CES
invelving ejaculatory duct and seminal vesicle in also noted. Nu
lymphovaECular invasion is identifiad. There in no prostate

adenocaricnoma. All margins are negative for tumor.

COMMENT:
Intradepartmentdl consultation: (95 and P6)

TUMOR SYNOP’I‘IC REPORT AND STAGING:

Specimen (include all): Urinary bladder, prostate, extended palvzc
lymph node diasectinn spacimens

Procedur: type: Radical cystaproatatectomy and extended PLND

Tumor size: 7 cm

Hiatclagic type: Invasive urochelial carcinoma

Aasociated apithclial lesions: CIS

Histolmgin grade (low or high): High grade

Micrcscnpic tumor extension: rumnr invades bladder muscularxs proprxa

and prestate stroma

Page 10 of 11

 

" wuwau-

 

Margin status: Neiative

Lymphovascular invasion: Yea
Primary tumor (9T): pTAa

Lymph node (pH): pNZ

Distant metastasis (M): CMQ

Stage grouping: IV

Sites of distant metastasis: Unknown

M»

Page 1 of L

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
DICTATED BY:
This report was verified electronically.

 

 

$age ll of 11

