UUID: E1FA7F32-MAE-4353-BA17-133EFDORZSESD9ac Page 1 of 4
TCGA- IB- Aaus- 91A- PR

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

 

‘Time Collected Time Received _' ‘
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Status Final Relevant lnformatior
Location
Copied To
Report Patient
Demographics (for
verification purposes)
Sex: M
3:de -C> —:3;ilr
’ ; H03
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT aﬂiLWWMVQ 40“”

“*"Surgical Pathology RenarHH‘l 9&0/6
Accession Number WW’MWEWe‘” | Evil—4., )LaoLg pail/Law

Collected Date/Time

Received Date/Time a 025 D
Pathologist 7/523, [-3

Specimen Description
A. Gallbladder
B. Whipple specimen

Clinical Information
Pancreatic ca.
Infectious patient :No
Immunocompromised: No
History of neoplasm: N/A

 

Diagnosis

A. Gallbladder Cholecystectomy:
Chrcnic cholecyetitis
Cystic duct lymph node with areas of hyalinization, negative for
mal ignancy .

8. Head sf Pancreas (Whipple's Resection):

— Invasive moderate to poorly differentiated duct adenocarcincma of
the pancreas.
Carcinoma invades through muscularis propria of duodenum and
erodes mucosa of the ampulla 0E Veterv

— Focal extension to inferior margin and margin in the grocve of the
superior mesenteric vessels.

— Metastatic carcinoma in 16 of 19 dissected lymph nodes.

Reported by:

Electronical ly s igned by:
Verified:

 

Page 2 of4

“ s: Pancreas‘iﬂxocrine), Macroscopic
SPECIMEN:
Head of pancreas
Duodenum
PROCEDURE:
?ancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial pancreatectomy
TUMOR SITE:

Pancreatic head

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 3.6 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.5 x 2.0 cm

B: Pancreas (Exocrine), Microscopic
HISTDLOGIC TYPE:
Ductal adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
G3: Poorly differentiated
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissues
Tumor invades retroperitoneal soft tissue
MARGINS:
Margin(s) involved by invasive carcinoma
Uncinate process (retroperitoneal) margin (nonperitonealized surface of the uncinate
process)
TREATMENT EFFECT {applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
Not known
LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Present
PERINEURAL INVASION;
Present
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the
superior mesenteric artery
REGIONAL LYMPH MODES (pN):
le: Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 19
Number involved: 16
ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:
Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (highest grade: PanIN II )

Gross Description
Received are specimen containers A to B. All reouisitions and specimen containers are

labelled with the patient's na $n§$ﬁ§ﬁﬁﬁngﬁm cassettes and are
labelled with the

A. Specimen is received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin. The container is
designated "gallbladder". The speCimen consists of a collapsed gallbladder with abundant
fatty tissue around the gallbladder. The gallbladder measures 7.0 cm in length and up to
2.5 cm in transverse diameter. On opening the gallbladder it contains a small amount of
mucoid bile as well as small fragments of calculus material ranging from 0.2 cm up to 0.8
cm. The mucosal surface is green and velvety, The gallbladder wall measures up to 0.2
cm in thickness. A cystic duct lymph node is visible at the proximal resection margin.
The proximal resection margin and cystic duct lymph node are submitted in Al.
Representative sections from the body and fundus are submitted in A2.

B. Specimen is received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin. The container is
designated "Whipple's specimen". The specimen consists of a pancreatic duodenectomy
specimen. The duodenal portion measures 32.0 cm in length with a short segment of distal
antrum, 2.0 cm in length. The head of pancreas measures 6.0 cm from superior to
inferior, 3.5 cm from medial to lateral and approximately 3.5 cm in thickness from
anterior surface to retropericoneal resection margin. The superior mesenteric vessel

 

.4...“ ’age 3 of4

groove is painted green and the protruding uncinate process is painted orange. The
retroperitoneal soft tissue margin is painted black. The resection margin at the neck of
the pancreas is painted blue. The ampulla of Vater is somewhat protuberant, measuring
1.5 cm across with mucosal congestion. The gallbladder is layed open to reveal a firm
tumorous mass encircling the common bile duct starting 0.8 cm from the opening of the
ampulla and extending out the common bile duct for a distance of 2.0 cm. The remaining
proximal common bile duct is 2.5 cm from the proximal extent of the mass. There is a
bifurcation, likely representing a low insertion of the cystic duct. The bifurcation
lies 1.5 cm from the proximal common bile duct margin. An incision from the uncinate
process aspect at the head of pancreas shows a hard tumorous mass that occupies
approximately 50% of the head of pancreas measuring 3.0 cm from superior to inferior,
approximately 2.0 cm from the wall of the common bile duct in a medial-lateral
orientation and approximately 2.5 cm in thickness in AP orientation. The tumor appears
to lie closest to the retroperitoneal resection margin although soft friable fatty tissue
is present at the surface. The section of the soft tissue around the head of the
pancreas yields a distinct node at the proximal end of the common bile duct, two lymph
nodes along the superior edge of the head of pancreas, approximately four enlarged firm
areas, possibly nodes, in the adipose tissue attached to the distal stomach,
approximately four lymph nodes in the gastroduodenal zone and approximately three lymph
nodes in the fatty tissue at the inferior aspect at the head of pancreas.

Sections are taken as follows:

81 — proximal common bile duct resection margin.

82 - resection margin at neck of pancreas

Ba — inferior edge at head of pancreas, perpendicular.

B4 through B7 - transverse sections of posterior aspect of pancreatic head from inferior
to superior.

Ea through B13 — transverse sections of anterior half of head of pancreas from inferior
to superior.

E14 — lymph node at proximal end of common bile duct.

815 — lymph nodes at superior edge of head of pancreas.

His and El? — lymph nodes on lesser curve of stomach.

BIG and 319 ~ gastroduodenal lymph nodes.

320 - lymph nodes at inferior edge at head of pancreas.

521 — representative section of proximal resection margin, perpendicular.

B22 - distal resection margin, perpendicular.

Microscopic Description

A. Sections show gallbladder tissue with chronic cholecystitis, but no cytologic atypia
in the mucosa of the gallbladder. The cystic duct lymph node shows accumulation of
macrophages with areas of hyalinization. but without significant mineral oil
lipogranulomatosis. No sign of malignancy is present.

B. Sections of the head of pancreas shows an invasive moderate to poorly differentiated
pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma that invades along the distal common bile duct, extends
through the wall adjacent duodenum and involves the orifice of the ampulla of Vater. The
bulk of the cancer, however. lies in the inferior part of the head of the pancreas
focally extending to a cauterized inferior margin and focally to a cauterized edge in the
groove of the superior mesenteric vessels. There is also areas of lymphovascular
invasion and perineural invasion. Focal residual ducts on the periphery of the cancer
shows changes of PANIN grade II. The pancreatic neck resection margin is clear and no

clear involvement of the main pancreatic duct can be seen. Also, the secondary
pancreatic papilla is visualized with no direct invasion by cancer. The proximal
resection of the common bile duct is clear of tumor. Multiple lymph nodes included in
the sections of the head of the pancreas shows metastatic carcinoma and together with
additional lymph nodes dissected separately, there appears to be up to 19 lymph nodes,
including the nodes in the distal perigastric tissue. Sixteen of these Show either

Page 4 ot'4

A _ . a.
he metastatic dagosita of pancreatic Larcmom
3.1 gactric antral mucosa and
*h unremarkable

how unremarkable: dink:
g'm is clear wi.

atg in 5
ion mar

E the proximal m
and the distal. resec‘c

The secticns :1
03a,

unremarkable duodenal muc
duodenal mucosa.

Accession Numbe'
Encounter Number
Patient Location

 

I‘ ram. " ‘ Ill/“3:1J‘qllb 'm

 

 

 

 

 

Lagnmis Discrcpancy “0 /
Primary Tunml Site D‘suepancv A.” V,
HIFAAl iscrumnty J,
Pucv Mummy mm ' h/f
Dual/.‘ynchmlmus Planary' high. - l

/

 

 

 
 

Case it Icin:
Ramada lm val:

 

 

 

