SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

    

De~|dentified Specimen Code:

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: 7
Part B: R4

Part C: 4L

Part D: R2

Part E: L2

Pan F: LEVEL 5 -
Part G: LEFT UPPER LOBE

Pan H: LEVEL 4

Part l: LEVEL 7

Part J: LEVEL 10
Part K: LEVEL 11

Final Diagnosis

1. Lymph nodes, #7, R44L R2 L2 Level 5 Level 4 Level 7,, Level 10 Level 11excision (A—F, H-K) —
Lymph nodes; negative for malignancy.

7. Left upper lobe, lobectomy (G) — invasive moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma
(see comment).

~ Interstitial scarring fibrosis.

~ Centrilobuiar emphysema.

 

Page 1 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
Tumor Location: Left upper lobe

Tumor Size: 2.5 x 2.6 x 2.5 cm

Vascular invasion: Not identified

Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymai Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): Stage IA (ple, NO, MX)

Additional comments: Immunohistochemical stains for cytokeratin CAM 5.2, TTF~'1,vand p63 were used in the
evaluation of this tumor. The tumor cells stained positively for CAM 5.2 and p63, and ‘were negative for TTF—i.
The flbrotic stroma within the tumor is negative for CAM 5.2. This supports the diagnosis of squamous cell
carcinoma.

The squamous cell carcinoma is in association with a localized area of interstitial fibrosis wit hemosiderosis
and foci of organizing and recanalizing vascular thrombi. The fibrosis is localized to the subpleural region,
consistent with a pulmonary scar, that could be due to previous trauma or surgical procedure in this area
(patient’ 3 history of prior cardiac surgery). in addition, the vascular changes present suggest that an old
scarring pulmonary infarct could be another possible etiology of the localized interstitial fibrosis, Correlation

with clinical and radiologic ﬁndings is needed.

Procedure: ADDENDUM Status: Signed Out
Text:

Intraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Negative for neoplasm , ,_ : .-

8. Negative for neoplasm
O. Negative for neoplasm
D. Negative for neoplasm
E. Negative for neoplasm

F. Negative for neoplasm

 

Page 2 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

W

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "7" and consists of fibrofatty tissue with
nodules that measures 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. There are two nodules present that measure 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2
cm. and 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette
A1.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "R4" and consists of a single piece of
adipose tissue with multiple attached nodules. The specimen measures 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette B1.

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "4L" and consists of adipose tissue with
multiple attached nodules. The specimen measures 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally
submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette Ct.

D. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "R2" and consists of adipose tissue with
attached nodules. The specimen measures 0.9 x 0.9 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for
frozen section evaluation in cassette D1.

E. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "L2" and consists of adipose tissue with
multiple attached nodules. The specimen measures 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The fat is removed, and the
nodules are totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette E1. The remainder of the adipose
tissue is submitted for permanent section in cassette E2.

F. Received labeled "level 5" are three pieces of red-gray soft tissue aggregating’to23x 2.0 x 0.5 cm.
The specimen is totally submitted in FSF1. ' ' ' " ‘ '

G. Received fresh labeled "left upper lobe" is a lobectomy specimen of the upper lobe of the left lung
weighing 285 grams (fresh), and measuring 18.5 x 11 x 4 cm. A well-circumscribed, firm, gray-white
mass measuring 3.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm is present within the lung parenchyma, with a central area of scar
and possible necrosis. The mass is adjacent to an irregular area of fibrosis that extends to the pleura,
which is thickened with adhesions. The mass extends to 0.3 cm from the closest staple margin (inked
orange). The remainder of the lung parenchyma appears unremarkable. Two possible anthracotic hilar
lymph nodes are identified, measuring 0.3 cm and 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Representative
sections are submitted as follows: FSG1 frozen bronchial margin, (32 vascular margins, GS possible
lymph nodes. G4 —G5 fibrous area with thickened pleura, G6—G10 mass (G9 mass with staple line, G10
with visceral pleura). G11 unremarkable lung.

H. Received fresh labeled "level 4" are multiple irregular shaped segments of gray soft tissue resembling
lymph nodes aggregating to 1.3 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one

cassette.

l. Received fresh labeled "level 7" are multiple irregular shaped segments of gray ‘Soft tissue resembling

 

Page 4 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:
lymph nodes aggregating to 1.9 x 2.3 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one

cassette.

J. Received fresh labeled "level 10" are multiple irregular shaped segments of gray soft tissue
resembling lymph nodes aggregating to 3.7 x 2.6 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in

formalin in three cassettes.

K. Received fresh labeled "level 11" are multiple irregular shaped segments of gray soft tissue
resembling lymph nodes aggregating to 3.5 x 2.4 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in
formalin in three cassettes. I '

Microscogic:
{Not Entered)

 

Page 5 of 5

