UUID: 5805401A-3A80—46DD-A643-846CAF24249e4d
TCGA- MS- A51U- 01A- PR

|||
|l|| IIIIIH
Ill lllll I lllhlll'lllIIIIIIIIHIHH|llllPIIIHHIWIHI Ila“ Illlll

SPECIMEN(S):

/¢ A! 0-“)
A: Left sentinel lymph node #1 3 www hwy/WW [a W, M5 8329/};
B: Left sentinel lymph node #2 57b War", no; 65,“?
C: Left breast with axillary lymph nodes 94:” l}—

D: Right breast

FlNAL DIAGNOSIS:

“Amended Microscopic Breast Carcinoma Checklist (see below)“

A. Lymph nodes, ”left sentinel lymph node #1," biopsy (including AFSl)
— Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node consistent with breast
primary (1/1)
- Metastatic deposit measures 6mm in greatest dimension"

- No extracapsular extension

B. Lymph nodes, "left sentinel lymph node #2," biopsy (including BFSl)

— Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2)

C. Breast left, modified radical mastectomy
- Invasive lobular carcinoma
- Multifocal with largest tumor 3.2 cm in greatest dimension in

upper outer quadrant; additional foci in retroareolar area and lower

 

 

__- J 1

us Prlmwryil‘ v —-‘~“L_ :f‘w

mm— / pisoumirh V
a l 4; Man. _ Joli/l}

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

               

outer quadrant up to 1.1cm in greatest dimension
- Histological grade = 2/3 (score: tubules 3 + nucleus 2 + mitoses 1 =
6/9) by criteria
- Mitotic index = <1/hpf (low)
- Margins negative for invasive carcinoma (nearest 2 1.2 cm; location:
deep margin)
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LClS)
— LCIS comprises 5% of total carcinoma in specimen
- Nuclear grade 1/3 by SBR criteria (low)
— Margins negative for LCIS
- Metastatic carcinoma present in one of fifteen lymph nodes (1/15)
- Tumor deposit measures 4mm in greatest dimension, with no
extraca psular extension

- Nevus cell aggregate also identified

D. Breast, right, prophylactic simple mastectomy
- Fibrocystic changes
- Columnar cell hyperplasia
- Usual ductal hyperplasia
- No evidence of atypical hyperplasia, in situ carcinoma, or invasive
carcinoma

— Skin, nipple, and resection margins unremarkable

COMMENT:

This report was amended to correct the number of positive nodes in the

microscopic section, in the “Breast Carcinoma Checklist." The Diagnosis
above is unchanged, and is correct, with a total of 2 positive nodes;
that count has been re—verified by review of the microscopic slides.

The microscopic checklist section has now been corrected, to indicate
that a total of 2 nodes are positive. The "N" stage has thus been

corrected to pN1, as well.

This case was discussed with at a recent
conference, and he in fact pointed out this discrepancy. l informed him

at that time that I would make these corrections to the report.

CLlNlCAL HISTORY:

The patient is 3 year-old woman with biopsy proven infiltrating
lobular cancer of the left breast (ER+ PR+ Her2/neu-). Operative
procedure: Sentinel lymph node biopsies, left modified radical

mastectomy and right simple mastectomy.

GROSS:

Received are four fresh containers each labeled with the patient's name
A. The first container is additionally labeled ”A - left

sentinel lymph node #1.” The specimen consists of a 2.1 x 2.06 cm
fragment of pale, yellow—tan, fibrofatty tissue. A single potential

lymph node is identified measuring 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. The
node is serially sectioned and entirely submitted for frozen section

analysis as AFSl.

B. The next container is labeled "B - left sentinel lymph node

#2." The specimen consists of a 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm fragment of
yellow—tan, fibrofatty tissue. Two potential lymph nodes are identified
measuring 0.8 x 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The smaller node is inked
black. The nodes are serially sectioned and entirely submitted for
frozen section analysis as BFSl. The remaining adipose tissue is

submitted for permanent sections in cassette 32.

Summary of Sections:
BFSl - two potential sentinel lymph nodes, entirely submitted.

82 - remaining soft tissue.

C. The next container is labeled "C - left breast at 12 o'clock

with left axillary node dissection." The specimen consists of a 613 gm
modified radical mastectomy with axillary tail. The breast measures 17
cm medial to lateral, 15.5 cm superior to inferior and 3.9 cm

superficial to deep. The attached axillary tail measures 8 x 7.5 x 2

cm. There is an attached ovoid portion of skin measuring 4 x 3.5 cm
with an everted, freely mobile nipple which measures 2.5 x 2.5 cm with
the areolar complex. The deep fascial plane is inked black, the
remaining superior half is inked blue with the remaining inferior half
inked green. The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to lateral.
A gray—white, firm, irregularly—bordered mass is identiﬁed in the

upper outer quadrant measuring 3.2 x 2.2 x 1.3 cm in greatest dimension.

This mass is consistent with a bilobed single mass. However, it could
represent two separate masses. The central area of the mass is
submitted which could represent normal parenchyma in between the two
masses. The mass is 1.8 cm to the deep margin and 2.5 cm to the nipple.
A dumbbell-shaped biopsy clip is identified near the medial portion of
the mass. There are firm, indurated possibly calciﬁed areas located
posteriorly to the nipple. The axillary tail is dissected to reveal 19
potential lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.3 to 2.6 cm in greatest
dimension. The nodes are entirely submitted. The specimen is sectioned

and laced in formalin.

Summary of Sections:

C1 - middle portion of mass.

C2-C3 - medical portion of tumor.

C4 - lateral portion of tumor with deep margin.

C5 — lateral portion of tumor.

C6 - representative upper inner quadrant.

C7 - representative upper outer quadrant.

C8 — representative lower outer quadrant.

C9 - representative lower inner quadrant.

C10 - representative retroareolar areas of induration.

C11 - nipple.

C12 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.
C13 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.

C14 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.

C15 - six potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.
C16 - six potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

C17 - four potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

D. The next container is additionally labeled "D - right

breast." The specimen consists of a 510 gm simple mastectomy measuring
20 x 17 x 2.8 cm. Attached roughly ovoid portion of skin measures 3.9 x
2.5 cm which is pale tan without lesions identified. The attached

nipple is everted and freely mobile and measures 2.7 x 2.0 cm with the
areolar complex. The deep fascial plane is inked black. The remaining
specimen is inked blue. The specimen is unoriented. lt is serially
sectioned to reveal yellow-tan, lobulated parenchyma with interspersed,
dense and gray-white fibrosis and fibrocystic change. A small 0.6 cm
area of hemorrhage is identified located at the periphery. Masses or
lesions suspicious for malignant process are not grossly identified.

The specimen is arbitrarily divided into quadrants and representative
sections are submitted. The specimen is sectioned and placed in
formalin .

Summary of Sections:

01 - nipple.

DZ—D3 - representative of quadrant 1.

D4—DS — representative of quadrant 2.

D6-D7 ~ representative of quadrant 3.

D8—D9 - representative of quadrant 4.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS:
AFSl: Left sentinel lymph node #1 - ”Metastatic breast carcinoma in

one lymph node."

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS:

BFSl: Left sentinel lymph node #2 — "Two lymph nodes with no evidence

of malignancy."

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination is performed. Permanent sections confirm the

frozen section diagnoses.

Breast carcinoma checklist:

Operative procedure: mastectomy

Specimen size: 17 x 15.5 x 3.9 cm

Specimen integrity: Intact

Tumor location: Upper outer quadrant, lower outer quadrant, and

sub-areolar

Tumor focality: Multifocal

Tumor size: 3.2 x 2.2 x 1.3 cm, with other nodules as large as 1.1 cm

Tumor extent: tumor limited to breast, without invasion of skin or

muscle

Tumor type: lnfiltrating lobular carcinoma

Histologic grade: 2/3 (score: tubules 3 + nucleus 2 + mitoses 1 = 6/9)

by ESBR criteria

Mitotic index: <1/hpf (low)

Lymphovascular invasion: Present

Perineural invasion: Absent

Margins of invasive carcinoma: Negative (nearest = 12 mm; location;

deep)

In situ carcinoma: Present; Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS)

Extent of in situ carcinoma: Non—extensive, comprises 5% of total

carcinoma

Grade of in situ carcinoma: 1/3 by SBR criteria (low)

Margins of in situ carcinoma: Negative

Paget's disease: Absent

Number of Lymph nodes examined: 18

Number of Lymph nodes positive: **2** (1/3 sentinel nodes, and 1/15

nodes from mastectomy)

Size of largest metastatic focus: 6 mm

Extracapsular extension: Absent

Receptor studies (performed on prior biopsy)

ER+

PR:+

her2/neu:-

AJCC Cancer Staging:

pT: Primary tumor (pT)

pT2

pN: Regional nodes (pN)

**pN1** M(2 total positive nodes)“

M: Distant metastases (M)

MD (clinically absent)

