 

“FEM 1M3

 

 

 

Final Pal/701091! ‘niaynosi-s
' - ' i ' Collected Datefl‘ime:
Veriﬁed DatefI‘imc:

Final Pathologic Diagnosis

A) RIGHT TONGUE (PARTIAL GLOSSECTOMY):
- Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, keratinizing (see synoptic
report).

B) ANTERIOR DEEP MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

C) ANTERIOR LATERAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

D) POSTERIOR MEDIAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

E) POSTERIOR LATERAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

F) POSTERIOR DEEP MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

G) POSTERIOR MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

H) ANTERIOR MEDIAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for malignancy.

I) RIGHT LEVEL 1 (EXCISION):

- Two lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0l2).
- Salivary gland with chronic sialadenitis.

Page: 1 of 7

ﬂﬁﬂﬂl’l

 

 

 

   

 

 

final Pathology ﬂiaynasis

Ii

 

Accession Number: Senior Patholoiist:

J) RIGHT LEVEL 2 (EXCISION):
- Eight lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/8).

K) RIGHT LEVEL 3 (EXCISION):
- Six lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (016).

L). RIGHT LEVEL 4 (EXCISION):
- Nine lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (019).

I attest I have personally reviewed the specimen/slides and agree with the above ﬁndings.

 

Synoptic Report
A: Lip and Oral Cavity — MCGH
SPECIMEN (Select alt that apply):

Other (specify): Right Anterior Tongue
RECEIVED:

Fresh
PROCEDURE (Select aII that apply):

Resection

Other (specify): Partial Glossectomy
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY:

Intact
SPECIMEN SIZE:

Greatest dimensions: 4.2 x 2.5 x1.3 cm
SPECIMEN LATERALITY:

Right
TUMOR SITE (Select all that apply):

Page: 2 of 7

Collected Datefi‘ime:
Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

agar! ‘

 

 

 

 

Final Parity/0.01! ﬂiaynasis

' ' ' ’ ' Collected Dateﬂ‘ime:
Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

TUMOR FOCALITY:
Single focus
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimensions: 1.6 cm
TUMOR THICKNESS (pTi AND pT2 Tumors):
Tumor thickness: 9 mm
TUMOR DESCRIPTION (Select ail that apply):
Gross subtype
. Endophytic
MACROSCOPIC EXTENT OF TUMOR:
Specify: Limited to resection specimen margins
HISTOLOGIC TYPE (SeIect all that apply):
Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
GZ: Moderately differentiated
MARGINS (Seiect ali that apply):
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from ctosest margin: 1 mm
Specify margin(s), per orientation, if possible: Deep Margin
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma In situ (includes moderate and severe dysplasia)
Distance from closest margin: 12 mm
TREATMENT EFFECT:
Not identified
LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION:
Not identified
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Present
LYMPH NODES, EXTRANODAL EXTENSION:
Not identified
PATHOLOGIC STAGING (pTNM):
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT)
pT‘l: Tumor 2 cm or fees In greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number examined: 25
Number involved: 0
DISTANT METASTASIS
Not Applicable
ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS (Select ali that apply):

Page: 3 of 7

ﬂﬂﬂﬂfl

 

 

 

 

_Final Patina/ﬂy]! Hie-gnasis Report

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
— Reeveeeereee
. Veriﬁed DateITime:

Keretinizing Dysplasia
Moderate
Inflammation (specify type): Chronic

 

Intrao erative Diagnosis

FS Bi: Negative for neopiasia.
FS Ci: Negative for neopiasia.
FS D1: Negative for neopiasia.
FS E1: Negative for neopiasia.
F8 F1: Negative for neopiasia.
FS 61: Negative for neopiasia.
FS H‘I: Negative for neopiasia.

Clinical History
Tumor Bank.

Pre/Posteoperative Diagnosis
SCCA of tongue.

Gross An ' ’ '

(Dictated b

Specimens received in eight containers.

Specimen A: Designated "right tongue lesion. non-marginal tissue“ is received fresh for Tumor Bank Iabeled with the patient’s
name and ”right tongue Iesion, non—marginal tissue“. Specimen consists of a single portion of soft tanlptnk tongue measuring
4.2 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm. The surface is focally smooth with areas of erythema and irregularity. The surgical margin is inked blue.
The specimen is unoriented. Cut surface is tanlyeilow and focally hemorrhagic and possibly necrotic with a centrai white
tumor measuring up to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension.

Section code: A1 — tips; A2—A10 — remainder of specimen seriatly sectioned.

S ecimen B: Designated "anterior deep” is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
mied with the patient’s name and "anterior deep". Specimen consists of one piece of red/tan tissue 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.2

cm, entireli frozen.

Page: 4 of 7

 

 

 

filial FRI/70,0911 ”iﬂﬂlltﬂb‘is ﬂb’ﬂﬂf!

Section code: 81 — frozen section control, entire specimen.

Collected Datef‘i‘ime:
Received Date/Time:
Verified Date/Time:

   

W Designated "anterior lateral“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
abeled with the patient's name and "anterior lateral“. Specimen consists of one piece of tan tissue 2.5 x 0.2 x 0.1
cm, bisected.
Section code: Ci — frozen section control.

Specimen D: Designated "posterior medial" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
_Iabeled with the patient's name and "posterior medial". Specimen consists of one piece of ten tissue 2.4 x 0.2 x 0.1
cm, bisected.

Section code: D1 a frozen section control, entire specimen.

‘ E: Designated "posterior lateral" Is received fresh for intraoperative consuitalion and frozen section diagnosis on
beled with the patient‘s name and "posterior lateral“. Specimen consists of one piece of red tissue 2.0 x 0.2 x 0.12
cm, bisected.
Section code: E1 — frozen section control, entire specimen.

3 ecimen F: Designated “posterior deep” is received freshfor Intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
her—lasted with the patients name and "posterior deep". Specimen consists of two pieces of red tissue 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.2
cm and 0.3 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm, entirelyfrozen.

Section code: F1 — frozen section control.

labeled with the patient's name and "posterior margin". Specimen consists of one piece of red tissue 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.1
cm, entirely frozen.
Section code: Gi — frozen section control, entire specimen.

W Designated "posterior margin” is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on

Specimen H: Designated "anterior medial" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
—Iabeled with the patient‘s name and "anterior medial". Specimen consists of one piece of tan tissue 3.0 x 0.2 x 0.2

cm, en rrely frozen. Specimen is trisected.

Section code: H1 —- frozen section control, entire specimen.

Specimen l: Designated "right level one" is received fresh for Tumor Bank labeled with the patient's name and "right level
one“. Specimen consists of a single packet of light tan/yeliow fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm in greatest
dimension. No grossly evident tumor is present. No specimen is sent for Tumor Bank. The specimen consists of a well
encapsulated unremarkable submandibular gland measuring 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.7 cm in greatest dimension and associated
fibroadlpose tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The submandibular glandis serially sectioned to
reveal no evidence of tumor. No associated lymphoid tissue is identified Immediately surrounding the submandibular gland.

The cut surface of the submandibular Iand ls ii ht tan/ ellow and homo enous in nature.
Printed#

Page: 5 of 7

 

 

 

final PEI/101091! ﬂiaynasis ﬂﬂﬂﬂl'l

‘ ' ' ’ ' Collected DatelTime:
Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed DatefTime:

Section code: It — five possible lymph nodes submitted intact; l2-13 — remainder of associated fibroadipose tissue; l4-l5 —
representative sections of submandibuiar gland.

 

Specimen J: Designated "right level 2" is received fresh for Tumor Bank labeled with the patient's name and ”right level 2".
Specimen consists of a single packet of light tan/yellow fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.0 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension. No grossly evident tumor is identified. No specimen is sent for Tumor Bank.

Section code: J1 - four possibte lymph nodes submitted intact; J2- one lymph node, bisected; J3—J4 — remainder of associated
fibroadipose tissue.

Specimen K: Designated "right level three" is received fresh for Tumor Bank labeled with the patient‘s name and ”right level
three". Specimen consists of a single packet of tight tan/yellow fibroadipose tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.3 x 1.1 cm in greatest
dimension. No grossly evident tumor is identified. No specimen is sent for Tumor Bank.

Section code: K1 ~ four possible lymph nodes submitted intact; K2- two possible lymph nodes, submitted intact; K3-K4 —
remainder of fibroadipose tissue.

Specimen L: Designated "right leVel four" is received fresh for Tumor Bank labeled with the patient's name and "right tevei
four". Specimen consists of a single packet of light tan/yellow iibroadipose tissue measuring 3.8 x 2.8 x 1.4 cm in greatest
dimension. No grossly visible tumor is present throughout the lymph node packet. No specimen is given for Tumor Bank.
Section code: L1 — six possible lymph nodes submitted intact; L2- one lymph node, bisected; 1.3- one lymph node bisected;
L4»L6 m remainder of fibroadipose tissue, submitted entirely.

Page: 6 of 7

 

 

 

Illlfﬂﬂﬂﬁfﬂtillﬂ

Intraoierative Diagnosis

FS B1:
FS C1:
FS D1:
FS E1:
F3 F1:
F3 G1:
FS H1:

Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.
Negative for neopiasia.

Hiaanasis

Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/Time:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

Page: 7 of 7'

ﬁﬁ'ﬂﬂfl

 

 

