UUID: 3F58693E- -FBSO- 46DE- BDFB- 307D§37R13eFFFac
TCGA- -DA- A952- 06A- PR

{HI III “III“ IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III|||||IIII IIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIICIIEd
I

II
II IIIIIIIIIIII IIIII'IIIIIIII III 'IIIIIIIIIIII

SURGICALIPATHOLOGY REPORT

Procedures/Addenda Attached
rear) —.3
W‘w “as 37.20/3
6 J1 szw
@Jamk C 6/0! b

90 SIM/l4

 

 

Specimen(s) Received:
METASTATIC MELANOMA LEFT FLANK

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
SKIN, METASTATIC MELANOMA LEFT FLANK, EXCISION:

— MALIGNANT MELANOMA, METASTASIS

NOTE: There is a large nodule of malignant melanoma within the schutaneous fat, with foci

of necrosis en masse and numerous mitotic figures. The neoplastic cells are positive for
Melan A and practically negative for HMB45. The margins are negative.

Pathologist:
' * Report Electronically Signed Out *

This electronic signature indicates that the pathologist has personally reviewed the available gross and/or microscopic material and has
based the diagnosis on that evaluation.
‘ .

Gross Description:

Received fresh labeled with the patient‘s name and "metastatic melanoma left ﬂank" is a 9.5 x 8.0 x 5.0 cm tan-red, tirm
nodule which is partially surfaced by a 16.0 x 7.0 cm tan, unremarkable skin. One edge of the skin displays an unoriented
stitch which is arbitrarily designated at 12:00 by the prosector. The specimen has been previously incised and inked
orange. The specimen is inked (9-12—3200 black, 3-6-9:00 blue) and serially sectioned. The nodule has a tan-white to
yellow, heterogeneous, Iobulated, indurated cut surface and grossly abuts the inked margin. The nodule does not involve
the overlying skin. A gross photograph is taken of one cross section. Received separately in the same container is a 6.5 x
2.0 x 1.5 cm irregular soft tissue with orange ink along one aspect, consistent with additional portion of nodule.
Representative sections are submitted in 4 cassettes with separate tissue in cassette 4.

Summary of Stains Performed and Reviewed Cgunt
HMB—45 * 1
Melan—A * 1

The immunohistochemical profile may include the use of Analyte Specific Reagents or Research Agents whose performance characteristics have not been established by the
supplier The histochemical tests were developed and their pericrmence characteristics were determined by the it has not been cleared or
approved by the U 8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for this test. These tests are used for clinical
purposes and should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvements Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as
qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical testing. External and Internal controls stained appropriately

 

 

I ,J . , Pagetof4

(:1?- SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT -‘

Summary of TiSSue Submitted for Mlcroscoplc Examination Block Detail
# Blocks Designation g Description
Part1] METASTATIC MELANOMA LEFT FLANK 4 [Undes] (4) (No Description)
Procedures/Addenda

MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTIC TESTING - PCR Pathologist:

Status: Signed Out

Findings (Results)

'PCR-SSCP analysis of BRAF gene was performed 0*
BRAF gene V600E mutation IS NOT identified.

Analytic speciﬁc reagent (ASR) is used. This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the '

. ' ' ' g The test has not been cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. This test is
used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Interpretation

Approximately 50% of cutaneous melanoma harbor BRAF mutation that leads to activation of cell signaling for
tumor proliferation. The vast majority of the mutations are the V600E amino acid substitution. Recent studies
show that melanomas with the V600E mutation are more aggressive and less sensitive to chemotherapy.
However, melanoma patients with the VGOOE mutation have been found to have a 63% reduction of mortality
and a 74% reduction of disease progression when treated with Vemurafenib (PLX4032) in phase III clinical trial
studies. Therefore, patients with advanced melanoma harboring the BRAF V600E mutation may benefit from
specific inhibitor therapy. Arkenau HT et al. Target BRAF for patients with melanoma. Br J Cancer 104:392,
2011. Flaherty KT et al. Inhibition of mutated, activated BRAF in metastatic melanoma. N Engl J Med
363:809. 2010. Chapman PB et al. Improved survival with Vemurafenib melanoma with BRAF V600E
mutation. N Engl J Med 364:2507, 2011.

BRAF V600E mutation is not detected in the specimen tested.

Testing was performed by the .

 

TUMOR GENOTYPING Pathologist:
Status: Signed Out

Findings (Results)

Analysis was performed on:‘_____rpart 1, block _1_.
Tumor / specimen type: Metastatic Melanoma/Left Flank.

Selected regions of tumor DNA were "ore-amplified" prior to mutational testing because of

w.

 

Printed by: Page 2 of 4

w SURGICAL PA'i HULDGY REPORT _
the small amount of total DNA available from this specimen.

None of the mutations listed below was detected in this tumor.

In all tests in which a mutation was “not detected.” only normal (wild type) sequence was
identiﬁed.

Mutation: Mutation:

§£D§_.. m... L...— Basalt..—

BRAF G469A 14OSG>C not detected
VSOOK 1798_1 7996T>AA not detected
VBOOE 1799T>A not detected
VSDOM 17SBG>A not detected

NRAS G12R 34G>C not detected
6120 34G>T not detected
612$ 346>A not detected
G12D 35G>A not detected
G12A 356>C not detected
612V 356>T not detected
Gt 3R 376>C not detected
G130 376>T not detected
G130 386M not detected
G13V 386>T not detected
G13A 386>C not detected
061K 1810>A not detected
061P 182A>C not detected
061 L 182A>T not detected
061 R 182A>G not detected
061 H 183A>T not detected
061 H 183A>C not detected

Note: Mutations are described at the protein level using the single-letter amino acid code. x indicates the absence of an amino acid (Le.
a nonsense mutation. caused by creation of a stop codon in the DNA). and '13” indicates a frameshift mutation. Mutations are described
at the DNA level using the numbering of the reference gene‘s coding sequence (rather than the genomic sequence). Standard mutation

nomenclature is used. according to guidelines of the Human Genome Variation Society (http:/Mww.hgvscrg/mutnomenl).

mm
The patient sample was enriched for tumor by manual or laser-assisted dissection of formallnsﬁxed, parafﬁn—embedded (FFPE) tissue sections. DNA was
ambled using I commercially available kit and quantitated on a . spectrophotometer. "Pro-amplification" to expand the amount of DNA
for analysis is performed by highly multiplexed PCR using 20 ng of total DNA and primer pairs for varying subsets of the essays in the full panel of tests.
Following pre-ompliﬁcetion. the reaction mixture is diluted 1:20 and aliquots of this diluted pool of PCR products are separately assayed. in conjunction with
control samples. for subsets of the mutations listed above. Mutation detection was performed using . based assays run on a Real-Time PCR
instrument _ _. Assay sensitivities were determined using serial dilutions (with normal DNA) of DNA from positive control samples. Whenever
possible. positive controls consisted of DNA from human cell lines bearing the particular mutation being assayed. For those mutations not present in any
available cell line. assay sensitivity testing was performed on positive control FFPE tumor tissues or DNA plasmids engineered to contain the mutant allele. All
assays have been determined to have a minimum sensitivity of 50% heterozygous mutant cells (25% mutant alleles).

These tests were developed with class i analyte-speclfic reagents (ASRs) and the performance characteristics of the tests were determined by the
’ ' '. as required by the regulations of the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (DNA-1988).
Pursuant to these regulations, the ASRs used in these tests have been established and verified for eocwacy and precision. These tests have not been cleared
or approved by the us. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval It not necessary lor clinical application.
This tool is used for clinical purposes and should not be regarded as lnvestigarionet or for research. Testing was performed by the
_ ‘ This laboratory is certiﬁed under the requirements of curt-recs as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. Additional information about the tests performed by the laboratory is available upon request “

lntergregﬂon

None of the mutations listed above was detected in this tumor.

 

 

_* Printed by: Page 3 0H

