 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
Case Number:

Diagnosis:

A: Distal stomach, proximal duodenum, and perigastric lymph
nodes, resection

Tumor histologic type/subtype: mucinous adenocarcinoma with
focal areas of diffuse pattern and Signet ring cell pattern (see
comment)

Histologic grade: grade 3 of 4 (poorly differentiated)

Tumor size: 9.3 cm (at least)

Tumor location: stomach, lesser curvature

Depth of invasion: through muscularis propria and into lesser
curvature perigastric fibroadipose tissue

Lymphovascular invasion: present |<:Drcy3

adtnocarc Inomq ,
Perineural invasion: not identified nmuzJVV3vc5INMDS

3429)?)
Histologic assessment of surgical margins: _
:¥Ly
Proximal margin: negative, 3.2 cm away C(3CFJ~5hYWﬁ‘y\GJXHI*n\
cuss

Distal margin: negative, 5.7 cm away PPS-3h SW, )cﬁﬁv‘f‘

Cusahk~(‘¢ C’qu
Radial margin: negative
Elwhlw
Lymph nodes: metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 16 of 42
perigastric lymph nodes attached to this specimen (see specimens
B, C, D, and E for separately submitted lymph nodes)

Size of largest nodal metastasis: 1.55 cm
Extranodal extension: present

Other significant findings: background chronic atrophic
gastritis

AJCC Staging: pT3 pN3b

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen

UUID:961527C3-B7C6-4555-53AA-A4FBSD41999D 35"“ ' p . ' ,6: ~34 ‘
TcGA-F1-A443—o1A-PR )hnwummﬂwnw

I

Redacted __ ,i “l

RH}. WWﬁ'l'l'nh'iﬂﬂﬂ'lHHHH'JIHI'I'HEI)’:Hflh'h'h'll"' ’:;::;:;;m.;,e~::- ~~ 9
llllll ll|||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHlllllllllllllllllIlllllll kiwi “M 9 m1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

B: Omentum, omentectomy
— No metastatic adenocarcinoma identified within omental
fibroadipose tissue or 3 lymph nodes (0/3)

C: Lymph nodes, left gastric, biopsy

— No metastatic adenocarcinoma identified

No lymph nodes identified

— Entire specimen submitted for microscopic examination

U

Lymph nodes, celiac, dissection
Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in l of 11 lymph nodes
(1/11)

E: Lymph nodes, splenic artery, biopsy
Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 1 of 5 lymph nodes (1/5)

F: Additional proximal gastric margin, excision
Focal intestinal metaplasia
No dysplasia or adenocarcinoma identified

Comment:
The frozen section diagnoses for specimen A are confirmed.

H & E stained sections show a prominent lymphoid infiltrate
surrounding some regions of the tumor. An EBV in situ
hybridization stain is negative within the malignant cells.

A HERZ/neu immunostain is pending. The result will be issued as
an addendum.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

Frozen sections were requested by

FSAl: Stomach, distal margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSAZ: Stomach, proximal margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:

 

Clinical History:
-year—old with gastric cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "distal stomach and
perigastric lymph nodes." The specimen is received fresh for
frozen section and consists of distal stomach with approximately
1 cm of proximal duodenum and associated perigastric
fibroadipose tissue. The specimen measures 15 x 11 x 3 cm
(lesser curve length — 8.5 cm; greater curve length — 19 cm).
The distal margin is inked blue and taken entirely en face in
block FSAl. The proximal margin closest to the tumor is taken en
face in FSA2 (yellow ink where sampled).

The tumor is a 9.3 x 6 cm protruding mass centered on the lesser
curvature occupying approximately 75% of the stomach
circumference. It is located 3.2 cm from the proximal gastric
margin (as measured at the time of frozen section in the fresh
specimen) and 5.7 cm from the duodenal margin. The subserosal
fibroadipose tissue is indurated and fixed to the tumor. On cut
section the tumor is solid white/tan and invades through the
muscularis propria into the lesser omentum fat. Where not
covered with fat, the serosal surface is smooth without areas of
retraction or puckering, and grossly does not appear to be
involved (inked green). Tumor surface has a shallow ulceration,
and tumor thickness ranges 1.2 to 1.6 cm. Approximately 40% of
the tumor circumference has a rolled, heaped up mucosal border
that is next to the ulceration. The rest of the tumor is
polypoid without a rolled border, with a well—circumscribed
invasive front along the peripheral edge (consistent with
Borrmann mixed type 1 and 2). The remainder of the stomach
mucosa is pink/tan, granular and appropriately folded. No other
lesions are noted. Lymph nodes range in size from 0.2 to 1.6 cm
and are submitted per block summary. Areas of matted large
veins are not detected.

Tumor and normal tissue are submitted to'

Block summary:

FSA1,FSA2 — frozen section remnants

A3 — gastroomental vascular margin

A4 ‘ one 1.5 cm lymph node from lesser curve, bisected

A5 — one lymph node candidate from lesser curve, bisected
A6,A7 — 75% of the remaining proximal margin submitted en face

 

A8,A9 — tumor center, deepest invasion (serosal surface inked
green)

A10 — proximal edge of tumor

All — distal edge of tumor

A12 — edge of tumor in anterior corpus (transition from bare
serosal surface to subserosal fat)

A13—A15 ~ representative sections of tumor

Al6-A17 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

A18 — representative pylorus

A19 — representative stomach, 1 cm from tumor

A20 — representative stomach, 3 cm from tumor

A21,A22 — sections of tumor edge without rolled mucosal border
A23 — one lymph node candidate, bisected, lesser curve

A24 — two lymph node candidates, lesser curve

A25 — multiple lymph node candidates, lesser curve

A26 — one lymph node candidate, bisected, lesser curve

A27 — multiple lymph node candidates, lesser curve

A28,A29 - multiple lymph nodes, each cassette, lesser curve
A30,A31 — cluster of at least three lymph nodes, bisected
together, and additional fragments of fibroadipose tissue,
lesser curve

A32 — one lymph node, fragmented, lesser curve

A33 — representative remaining lesser curve fibroadipose tissue
A34 — one lymph node, bisected, greater curve

A35 — multiple lymph nodes, greater curve

A36 — one lymph node, bisected, greater curve

A37 — one lymph node, bisected, greater curve

A38 - one lymph node, bisected, greater curve

A39,A40 — multiple lymph node candidates, each cassette, greater
curve

A41 — representative remaining greater curve fibroadipose tissue

Container B is additionally labeled "omentum." It consists of a
58.0 x 16.5 x 2.5 cm collection of yellow/tan omental tissue.
One surface has cautery artifact. The opposite side is
yellow/tan and glistening. Serial sections reveal unremarkable
yellow lobulated cut surfaces. No firm areas are identified.
Representative sections are submitted in blocks B1—B3. Block B4
holds omental lymph node candidate, bisected.

Container C is additionally labeled "left gastric lymph node."
It consists of a 5.1 x 4.1 x 0.5 cm fragment of tan/yellow
fibrofatty tissue. No lymph nodes are palpated. The specimen is
submitted in blocks C1-C3,

Container 0 is additionally labeled "celiac lymph node." It
consists of a 4.5 x 3.7 x 2.5 cm fragment of yellow/tan

 

fibrofatty tissue. Multiple lymph node candidates are submitted
in blocks Dl-DS. Fat remains in formalin.

Container E is additionally labeled "splenic artery lymph
nodes." It consists of a 3.5 x 3.1 x 1.5 cm fragmented
yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue. Two lymph nodes are identified and
submitted in block E1. The remaining fibrofatty tissue is
submitted in blocks E2-E4,

Container F is additionally labeled "additional proximal gastric
margin." It consists of an 8.5 cm long x 2.0 cm diameter
triangular shaped segment of stomach. The specimen is stapled on
two sides with an attached 5.5 x 4.3 x 1.3 cm of yellow/tan
fibrofatty tissue. The serosal surface of the stomach is
gray/tan, smooth and intact. The mucosa is tan/white with normal
rugae and a thin layer of dark brown viscous material adherent
to it. The gastric wall is 0.2 cm thick throughout. The margins
are submitted in blocks Fl—F4, en face. No nodes are palpated.
Tissue remains in formalin.

