Patient a r

UUID: .6:%3:FC7-“-E7AE-gASOD1-AA5C6- {93DA1C98C6eDd

I” lllHllHﬂlHlllllIllllﬂlllIIllIlIlIlImllllllllﬂllllllllell
u(MR#—9 Plinted b- I” lllHHllHll IHIH lHllllHlHl IIII III
I“ ”I"!lllHlllHﬂHllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIﬂIIIIIlIIIIIIIIII:lIlI

_ Description: I ,r old male

 

 

 

ED Encounter Weed
Report
Encounter i t to e
Report
H n M9. - l9. chtatlngga aggﬂjm;
TranscRgggu Surgical Pathology _

mm“...-
Dggyment 19x:
sum... case .9. —mm.

DATE OF SURGERY:

SPECIMEN: A. Diaphragm nodule, right chest.
13. Wedge, right lower lobe chest wall.
C. Wedge, basilar, right lower lobe.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: A. Malignant neoplasm. -
B. Surgical margins free of tumor. .
C. Malignant neoplasm. -

OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Right video-assisted thoracoscopy, .
possible thoracotomy, possible lobectomy,
possible chest wall resection.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lung mass.

POSTOPBRATIVE DIAGNOSIS: None given.

ink-kink******DIAGNOSIS*£***i*****

A,B,C:

1. Type of specimen:
Right lower lobe wedge with chest wall resection, diaphragmatic
nodule right chest and wedge basilar right lower lobe.

”3779
{W‘

gum/9 (We; .

@011 W

2. Tumor histologic type and grade: §
Malignant mesothelioma, predominantly epithelial type, moderately
differentiated. '
3. Tumor size: m
Multiple tumor nodules ranging from 6.0 cm to 0.5 cm maximally.~ 05 ‘0
0t
4. Extent of invasion: 90
Multiple tumor nodules involving pleura, lung and diaphragmatic ‘Q
muscle. R
5. Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion:
Absent.
6. Venous (large vessel) invasion:
Absent.
7. Surgical margins:

All surgical margins free of tumor.

8. TNM staging: pm, pNX, pMX
88331, 88307, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88331, 88332,
88332, 88332, 88311, 88309,

_5___ Mt _..-_..._._8.§_33 1 I 88 307

bI-IDHILLI-eu LU). Jul-068" UBULLUII dllu LULLUHLHQ pﬁLﬂldlleHL 330L101“! L“

 

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

A.

Sections are of diaphragm with a malignant epithelial neoplasm with a
tubulopapillary growth pattern. The cells demonstrate moderate to
abundant amount of cytoplasm with enlarged round nuclei with
irregularly clumped chromatin pattern and small, but prominent
nucleoli with mitotic activity seen. No definite lymphovascular
invasion is seen. Immunohistochemistry stains are obtained and the
neoplastic cells are strongly positive with calretinin, strongly
positive with cytokeratins, positive with cytokeratin7, negative with
cytokeratin20, negative with Napsin A, negative with TTF~1 and shows
strong nuclear staining with NT—l. The tumor is seen involving the
diaphragmatic muscle.

Multiple sections are examined, and sections from the soft tissue
surgical margins are free of tumor. Sections of the parenchymal lung
surgical margin is also free of tumor. Sections of the neoplasm
grossly described demonstrates a tumor with a predominantly tubular
growth pattern demonstrating similar morphology as previously
described in specimen A. In areas a papillary growth pattern is also
noted. There is no definite lymphovascular invasion. There is a
minor spindle cell component identified, and the tumor is pleural
based focally involving the lung parenchyma. The separate nodule
present in the pleura demonstrates malignancy with similar features.
The additional smaller nodule present in the lung also demonstrates
similar morphology. Random sections taken from the grossly
uninvolved lung demonstrates no significant fibrosis or significant
inflammation. Sections of the ribs including the rib adjacent to the
tumor demonstrates no intramedullary involvement by tumor. A focus
of neoplasm present in the adjacent soft tissue. The marrow
demonstrates myeloid and erythroid precursors with megakaryocytes.
Sections of the rib surgical margins are free of tumor.

Sections are of lung parenchyma with a subpleural tumor demonstrating
similar histology as described above with tumor extending to, but not
through, the ink pleural surface. Sections of the grossly uninvolved
lung demonstrate focal minimal chronic inflammation but no
significant fibrosis.

GROSS:

A.

Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "diaphragm nodule, right chest" is a single fragment of pink-tan
tissue measuring 1.3 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected to
reveal a pale tan, homogeneous interior. Representative sections are
submitted for frozen section and following permanent sections in
Cassette 91, with touch preparations also performed. The remainder is
totally submitted in block #2 for permanent. TS-Z

Received fresh labeled "wedge, right lower lobe chest wall“ is a 7 x
5 x 3 cm in maximum dimensions wedge resection of lung with staple
line and chest wall resection, including ribs and soft tissue
measuring 10 x 7.5 x 2 cm. There is grossly a tumor that appears to
he pleural-based, extending into the lung parenchyma, with the tumor
measuring up to 6 cm maximally. A separate nodule that also appears
pleural~based is identified measuring 0.9 cm. The tumor is at least
1 cm from the rib and soft tissue surgical margins, and at least 1 cm
from the parietal pleural margin. The tumor is within 3 cm from the
parenchymal lung surgical margin. On cut surface. as previously
described, the tumor appears to be pleural-based, and attached to the
lung, but not involving the parenchyma. The tumor appears to be
grossly approaching, but not involving, the underlying periosteum of
the rib, and the rib surgical margins appear grossly free of tumor.

A small additional subpleursl nodule is present in the wedge of the
lung that measures 0.5 cm maximally. Representative section of the
tumor is submitted for Genomics Project and chemoeensitivity studies.

Sections are submitted for frozen section and frozen section

 

 

 

Patient: — (Mam Printed- Page 3 of3

diagnosis as follows: Cassette #1 a Anterior and superior soft tissue
surgical margins with superior margin inked in black. #2 — Posterior
and inferior surgical margins with inferior margin inked in black.

#3 — Parietal pleural margin. #4 — Parenchymal surgical margin.
Sections are then submitted for permanent as follows: 95 through #9
— Sections of tumor. #10 - Additional pleural~based nodule. #11 —
Additional subpleural nodule present in wedge of lung. #12 ~ Random
sections of grossly uninvolved lung. #13 - Sections of periosteum and
rib adjacent to tumor. #14 ~ Anterior rib surgical margins. #15 ~
Posterior rib surgical margins with #13, #14. and #15 submitted after
decalcification. u

C. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name, account number, and
"basilar wedge, right lower lobe" is a wedge biopsy of lung measuring
5.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. The pleural surface is red~tan and focally
white. The pleural surface is inked in black. Sectioning reveals a
white—tan firm area measuring 1.7 cm maximally on the pleural
surface. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section
and following permanent sections in Cassette #1, with touch
preparations also performed. Additional sections are submitted for
permanent in blocks #2 and #3, with block #3 containing normal lung.
ns—3 .-

Electronically Signed by
I—MD

 

Dictated: Jobﬁ
Transcribed: Docil M on

Go: -

 

Transcrlptlon lawman
Hlstory

 

Service
Date/Tlme
Fllecl
Date/Time

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I RMR #_ CSN D a .
nose DASCYEplnCy

Primary Tumors“: Disrre
HIPAA Duscrepancy

Prior Malignancv History
Dual/Synchronous Primary .

Fancy ,

 

 

 

