/CA-a/3
WWW WMWK,N05 ”80/3
srflfl/WWINOS 69].]

W ‘f/aii/ll

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

UUID. DBZé‘BSC- BESC- 4874- B79!)- 7FCFFFF70C4§d
TCGA- EO- AZZS- 01A- PR

Gender: F Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllRlllllllalllltecl
lll ll l l llllllllll lllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllll llllll Ill
Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

Speciments) Received

1. Uterus: Hysterectomy 880

2. Lymph node:Right external iliac lymph node
3. Lymph node:Right internal lliac

4. Lymph nodezright Obuturator

5. Lymph node:Right common iliac

6. Lymph node:Right lower para aortic
7. Lymph nodeLeft External lliac

8. Lymph node:Left internal iliac

9. Lymph nodezLeft oburator

10. Lymph node:Left common iliac

11. Lymph node:Lower para aortic

 

Diagnosis

1. Uterus, left & right fallopian tubes and ovaries:

Uterus.

MENOCARClNéMA ENDOMEI l NDQMﬂBlQLD IYPEWIT H SQUA o‘ it?
DlFFERENTlATlDN FlGO GRADE 313:» ~
- extension into outer half of myometrial thickness
- lymphovascular space involvement present

- extensive necrosis

- extension into endocervical stroma

    

Other:
-Leiomyomata uteri

Ovaries:
— Negative for carcinoma

Fallopian tubes:
- Endometriosis left fallopian tube
- Negative for carcinoma

 

2. Lymph nodes, right external iliac:

- Negative for carcinoma (six lymph nodes)

3. Lymph node, right external iliac:
- Negative for carcinoma (one lymph node)

4. Lymph nodes, right obturator:
- Negative for carcinoma (two lymph nodes)

5. Lymph nodes, right common iliac:
- Negative for carcinoma (two lymph nodes)

6. Lymph nodes, right lower paraaortic:
- Negative for carcinoma (four lymph nodes)

7. Lymph nodes, left external iliac:
- Negative for carcinoma (two lymph nodes)

8. Lymph nodes, left external iliac:
- Negative for carcinoma (three lymph nodes)

9. Lymph nodes, left obturator:
- Negative for carcinoma (three lymph nodes)

10. Lymph nodes, left common iliac:
- Negative for carcinoma (two lymph nodes)

11. Lymph nodes, lower paraaortic:
- Negative for carcinoma (five lymph nodes)

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type (s):

Tumor Size:

Other Organs Present:
Histologic Type:
Histologic Grade:
Myometrial Invasion:
Cervix involvement:

Total Hysterectomy, Left ovary, Right ovary, Left fallopian
tube, Right fallopian tube

Greatest dimension: 6.5 cm

Lymph nodes

Endometrioid/adenogrcingmg with squamous differentiation
G3: More’th'an 50% nonsquamous solid growth

Outer half invasion

Stromal involvement

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Present

Nodal Involvement:
Margins:
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metatstais (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

None
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

pT1c (lC): Tumor invades one-half or more of the
myometrium

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 30
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

None identified

 

 

Electronically
veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical Histog
endometrial ca

Gross Description

1. The specimen container, labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Right iliac
external node", contains multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 6.5 x 4.8 x 1.5 cm, received
in 10% NBF. This contains multiple lymph nodes measuring from 1.0 cm to 3.3 cm.
Representative sections are Submitted as follows:

1A- one lymph node bisected

1 B-1D- one lymph node trisected

1E-1F-multiple lymph nodes each block

1G-1K-fatty tissue.

2. The specimen container, labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Right internal
iliac node", contains a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.0 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm, received in 10%
NBF. This contains three lymph nodes measuring from 0.7 to 1.7 cm. The specimen is submitted
in toto as follows:

2A- two lymph nodes

28- one lymph node bisected

ZC-ZD-remainder of fatty tissue.

3. The specimen container, labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Right obturator
lymph node", contains a piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 3.2 x 2.3 x 0.8 cm, received in 10%
NBF.

3A-SB- specimen is bisected and submitted in toto.

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Left external
iliac lymph node" consists of two pieces of unoriented fatty tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm
and 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. Within the fatty tissue, multiple lymph
nodes are identified measuring from 0.7 to 2.7 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
4A- multiple lymph nodes

4B- two lymph nodes

4C-4D- one lymph node bisected

4E-4G-remainder of fatty tissue.

5. The specimen container is labeled with the patient‘s name and as “Lymph Node: Left internal
iliac lymph node" consists of a single piece of unoriented fatty tissue measuring 2.1 x 1.2
received in 10% buffered formalin.

5A specimen is bisected and submitted in toto.

6. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Left obturator
lymph node consists of four fragments of unoriented fatty tissue measuring from 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.3
cm to 2.5 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.

6A-60- submitted in toto.

7. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Uterus: Uterus, tubes and
ovaries" consists of a uterine corpus with attached cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries weighing
172.3 9 received in 10% buffered formalin. The uterus and cervix measures 9.5 cm Si x 6.7 cm

 

ML x 4.0 cm AP while the cervix measures 2.8 cm in diameter with a slit shaped os measuring
0.8 cm. The right ovary measures 2.4 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm with a solid yellow-tan appearance on cut
surface while the right fallopian tube is fimbriated and measures 5.4 cm in length and 0.8 cm in
diameter and is othewvise unremarkable. The left ovary measures 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm with a solid
gray-tan appearance on cut surface while the left fallopian tube is fimbriated and measures 4.2
cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter with multiple paratubal cysts measuring up to 0.7 cm. The
endo cervical and exocervicai mucosa are congested but otherwise unremarkable. The uterine
serosa is congested with fibrous adhesions. There is a fungating tan-brown friable tumor mass
on the anterior and posterior endometrium extending from the upper to the mid lower portion
predominantly on the left side measuring 4.8 cm Si x 4.2 cm ML with a depth of 0.4 cm. Grossly,
the tumor appears to be superficial but approaches into the myometrium. The myometrium is
trabeculated and slightly thickened and contains multiple well-circumscribed nodules measuring
from 0.3 to 0.8 cm. These nodules are solid in consistency with a whorled appearance on cut
surface. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

7A- left fallopian tube, left ovary previously submitted by the research assistant

78- right fallopian tube, right ovary previously submitted by the research assistant

7C- endometrial tumor previously submitted by the research assistant.

7D-7E-remainder of right ovary submitted in toto.

7F-7H-remainder of right fallopian tube and fimbriae submitted in toto.

7|-7J-remainder of left ovary submitted in toto.

7K-7M~remainder of left fallopian tube and fimbriae submitted in toto.

7N-7Q~two full transverse sections of the anterior upper endomyometrium.

7R-7U-longitudinal section of the anterior endomyometrium from mid upper to lower including the
cerwx.

7V-7Y-two full transverse sections of the posterior upper endomyometrium

7Z-7AC-longitudinal section of the posterior endomyometrium from mid upper to lower including
the cervix.

7AD-endometriai tumor.

Multiple pieces were taken for tissue bank.

 

