UUID:8FF81F34-90A2-423E-BB7D-A694F941FBBB
TCGA-XU-AAXY-EiA-PR

Illllllllllllllllllllllw

m. ,Ilﬂlllllﬁigllﬂmllllﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfed

 

Patient Name

 

MEN: service: Collected:
DOB: . (Age: ) Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:M Location:
Facility:
Ordering MD:
ma avé -

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

1. Thymus: Thymus Gland & Thymoma (stitch marks
DIAGNOSIS
1. Thymectomy:

m, all: 9,: 43‘
( raw/3

\jIUﬂMW/gﬁx. 132

(L67. ‘7

01,3 éjg/ilél

Thymoma, WHO type 32, with extension into thymic adipose tissue.
Maximum tumour dimension: 4.5 cm ‘

Tumor cells focally are present at painted margin and extend close to
a putative free pleural surface.

Closest margins: < 0.1 cm, painted mid-axis margin and short axis
margins

Residual thymus shows lymphoid follicle hyperplasia

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type:
Specimen Size:

Tumor site:

Tumor Size:
Histologic Type:
Pathologic Staging:
invasion

Regional Lymph Nodes:
metastasis

Distant Metastasis:
Margins:

Invasion of Pulmonary Parenchyma:
Pleural Invasion:

Vascular (Small/Large Vessel) InVasion:

Status: complete

Cervical thymectomy

Greatest dimension: 10.2 cm
Thymus

Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm

Type B thymoma, Bz (cortical)
Stage IIb: Macroscopic capsular

pNO: No regional lymph node

Number of nodes examined: 1

Number of nodes involved: 0

Cannot be assesaed

Margin(s) involved by tUmor

Margin(s): Focal painted margin
Absent '

Present

Page: 1 of 3

 

Patient name:

MRN: , Service: Collected:
DOB: (Age: ) Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:M Location:

Facility:
Ordering MD:

 

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "thymus and
thymoma (stitch marks left pleural -)" consists of an irregularly
shaped piece of lobulated adipose tissue with a suture on.one short axis
margin. The specimen has a fresh weight of 47.5 g and measures 9.0 x
10.2-x 2.6 cm. The suture is present on AP cell membranous tissue
measuring 6.0 x 2.7 cm. The Specimen is painted with Silver nitrate:
Serial cuts of the specimen demonstrate a poorly defined tumor measuring
4.5 x 2.0 x 4.0 cm. The tumor comes to within 0.2 cm of one long axis
margin, 1.5 cm of the opposite long axis margin, 0.2 cm of one mid axis
margin, 1.0 cm of the opposite mid axis margin and 0.1 cm of both short
axis margins (including the sutured component). The cut-surface the
tumor demonstrates fibrous septae with locules of congested and fleshy
pink—tan material. 4 nieces of tumor and 2 pieces of thymus are
submitted for Representative sections:

1A tumor with one long axis margin

13 tumor with opposite long axis margin

1C tumor with one mid axis margin

1D tumOr at opposite mid axis margin

13 tumor with sutured margin

1F tumor with margin opposite to sutured margin

1G uninvolved thymus

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION .
Sections show a tumour composed of an mixed population of small lymphoid
cells and larger epithelial cells. There are small islands of purely
lymphoid cells but the majority of the tumour is composed of solid sheets
of the two populations. The tumour focally shows thick fibrous septae
and a thin fibrous capsule that is discontinuous at the point where
tumour extends into the adjacent adipose tissue. By
immunohistochemistry, the epithelial tumour cells are positive for CK5/6
and HMWK. There is positive staining of the intermingled lymphoid cells
‘with CD5, CD1a, and CD99. The background thymus shows reactive lymphoid

Status: complete Page: 2 of 3

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: (Age : ) Visit # z ‘ Resulted:
Gender:M Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

follicle hyperplasia. The overall morphology of the lesion is consistent
with a thymoma type B2 in a background of lymphoid follicle hyperplasia,
consistent with the clinical history of myasthenia gravis.

Status: complete Page: 3 of 3
[lo /’

    

Case is
Reviewer Initials

