 

Observation Date and Time

UUID: E2968E5D-A017 -41AE-AF5F- 357A104C8533

 

  

 

TCGA-FG-A7ez-61A-PR Redacted
m 1'1.'l.'.'l'.'.l'.'.ll'.lh'l'l‘.I}!MHII!HMilHHH'.‘.h'h'h".'ﬂ'.1l"'
||| lllllIl|lllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|l|||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIHIII |||||
Result Narrative
(mm :cao~:5
W, W E
Surgical Pathology Report 943892 /&3

- Q'GCF-
Patient Name: ,m- CSQLIZ ‘ 'ICNE
Acce sion #: ~—— '
3 W! a7 [/0

Med. Rec #: ———
Submitting Physician: ~~~

focuhk
W. 1‘ ' l n' __- -
“£51,233.“ 22:23:; @WWW47,,1
Qﬁ) ?/.;2,z/15

ADDENDA:
Addendum added:
Addendum added:

~w-Final Patholngic Diagnosisu——

A. Left temporal tumor, resection:
~ High grade glioma. See comment.

3. Left temporal tumor, resection:
~ High grade glioma. See camment

Comment: Assays for 1p and 19q deletions are pending and the lineage of the
tumor {anaplastic oligodendroglioma v3 mixed oligoaatrocytoma) will be
determined once the result is available.

All controls Show appropriate raactivity.

The immunohistochemical andfor in situ hybridization teats reported here,
except for those addressing HER-Zlneu overexpression, have been developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the
in the
at ~«~ and are not required to

 

—--Addendum Report-——

Addendum Status: Signed Out

Detection of 1p36 and l9q by LSIe lp36/LSI 1q25 and LSI 19q13/19pl3
Dual-Color Probe Sets

‘ Patient Name:
Source of case ~-- Patient MRN:

Block used B4
Tissue fixation formalin-fixed tissue
Tissue source Breast
RESULTS
Ratio of 0.84 Cell count of lp/lq: 177
Ratio of 0.82 Cell count of l9q/l9p: 128
Interpretation of Results: A) 1p no loss; B) 19q no loss

Interpretation of findings:

A) (positive) The majority of tumors cells displayed 2 control
chromosome 1q25 signals and l chromosome lp36 signals (locus of

interest). The ratio of 1p36/lq25 is <0.8. The results are consistent
with the loss of lp36 locus of interest. B) (negative) The majority

of tumors cells displayed 2 to 3 control chromosome 19pl3 signals and
2 to 3 chromosome 19q13 signals (locus of interest), and the

ratio of l9q13/l9pl3 Ratio was >0.8. The results are consistent with
no loss of the 19q13 locus of interest.
Number of Observers: 2
Test Interpreted By: -——

Comments

The resultant FISH section/slide is scanned by a trained licensed
medical technologist and analyzed using a FDA—approved, validated
semi-automated scanning imaging

workstation ( ) and accompanying imaging analysis software

The resultant FISH section/slide is then presented to the

 

interpreting Pathologist, who will

reviews the FISH results from and compares them to the results
manually observed under Fluorescence Microscope. Therefore the
ratio is enumerated

by computer-aided counting as well as manual counting.

Interpretation of Test

The ratio for probe set 1 is derived by dividing the total number of
LSI lp36 signals by the total number of LSI lq25 signals in at least 20
interphase nuclei with

nonoverlapping nuclei in the neoplastic glial cells. Cells with no
signals or with signals of only one color are disregarded. The ratio for
probe set 2 is derived by dividing the

total number of LSI 19ql3 signals by the total number of LSI 19pl3
signals in at least 2 sets of 20 interphase nuclei with nonoverlapping
nuclei in the neoplastic glial cells at

two different areas of the sample. Cells with no signals or with
signals of only one color are disregarded. References ranges for our
laboratory for allelic loss versus no

allelic loss were established by evaluating both probe sets in a
series of 40 normal cases from 10 different organs. For both probe set 1
and 2 a ratio of less than 0.80 taken

from at least 2 sets of 20 interphase nuclei at 2 different areas with
nonoverlapping nuclei is consistent with allelic loss. FISH and H&&E
stained slides have been reviewed

by the interpreting pathologist.

Limitations

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT: The use of one or more reagents in the above
tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent (ASR). These tests were
developed and

their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been

cleared by the US Food and

Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or
approval is not necessary.

Addendum Status: Signed Out

A and B: Left temporal lobe, resection:
— Anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma (WHO grade III).

Assays failed to detect deletions of 1p and l9q loci.

 

---INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS:-*—

AFI. Left temporal toumur: (FROZEN SECTION PERFORMED)
- Infiltrating glial neoplasm.

Note: There is no doctor listed; however, a time of
indicated.

Examining pathologist:-——

—-—MICROSCOPIC:-——

Sections reveal an infiltrating cellular neoplasm composed of glial
elements with areas of cells having atypical and elongated nuclei
consistent with astrocytes; however, in most of the areas, cells with
rounder configuration, groups of minigemistocytes and background slender
vasculature are identified. Also, frequent mitotic figures, microvascular
proliferations, and foci of necrosis including geographic necrosis are
noted. Immunostain for GFAP is positive in many cells and a Ki-67 stain
shows a proliferation index of about 20—25%, as determined by manual
quantification.

--—SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED:---

A: Brain BX
B: Brain BX

--—GROSS DESCRIPTION:‘--

The specimens are received in two properly labeled containers with the
patient' 8 name and accession number, one of which was submitted for frozen
sectioning.

A. The specimen is designated "left temporal tumor" and consists
of a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm aggregate of soft tissue. A touch prep was
performed and the entire specimen was submi d for frozen sectioning,
resubmitted as received in cassette AFl.

 

The specimen is designated "left temporal tumor" and consists

of a 35.05 gram, 5. 5 x 5.2 x 1.5 cm portion of brain tissue which ranges
A 4. 6 x 3. 6 on area of pink-red disruption and

B.

from gray- tan to pink- red.
discoloration is identified along one surface, with the opposing surface

bearing a 5.0 X 4.3 cm area of shaggy, disrupted, white-tan discoloration.
Serial sectioning reveals white-gray to tan-brown to deep red, focally
hemorrhagic cut surfaces with the irregularity measuring 5.3 x 4.9 x 1.3
cm. The grossly uninvolved parenchyma is white-gray to with a
distinguishable border between white and gray matter.

Summary of Cassettes: Bl—S, random sections through softened area of
discoloration and hemorrhage; B6, grossly uninvolved tissue

Gross description by: -

Signed: Discrepancy
Unmary Tumor Six: Disc 2 a
gum. a sac e- r pa" ‘.

 

- » Bile Reviewed-

 

 
  
    
     
   
 
 

/ use“

