-AE99§ 45618- 4390- -6037€963ADCC
UUID:MEEA7729A- Redacted

a llllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllIIllIIllIlllllllllIlllllillllllllll Devamnemowamogy
‘ “II“
it. l‘ll‘llllllllll.lllll'll llllll l‘lllllllllllllll‘. ii. i l I . n.
ma! postal address
Concerning 7 Postal address

Summary pathology report

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (IT + MT 70%. YST 20%, EC 10%, scattered trophoblastic
giant cells); tumor diameter 6.5 cm; tumor conﬁned to testis; no angio-invasion; no invasion of

rete testis.
Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy): ICéb . C“ f5
MM 9mm um taxi/wit
9&6 6 /5
5 L” Q 7wL70/ H05:
QC: =9 Q?
pathologist ()4 \j 3) )‘7/i4
professor of pathology
PW T55 61)! W
W haze/1L W

M aw meme m
Zia: 140 40‘?!

It?!

 

 

 

 

V4. 00

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions; The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T85): T55 Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By [Interviewer Name on OpenCIinica): _g A_Completed Date: _
[Diagnosis Information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on
Path ologic Diagnosis IT plus MT (7 O %) + YST (2 0 %) + the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial EC (1 0 is) this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
. . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
HIStOIOg‘C featultes Of IT (8 0 is) I YST (2 0 9‘) Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 the sample provrded
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

 

Biorepository Director

 

 

3 Provide the reason for Due to the histological heterogeneous Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
. - - - holo re ort for this case is not consistent with the
the discrepancy const 1tut ion of non—semlnomas , the Pat gy p
dia osis selected on the TCGA Case uali Control Form.

between the pathology representation of the different gn Q ty
report and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected
Case Quality Control to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form. samples of the same case .

However , the components are monoclonal

in origin .
Name of T55 Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case

4 Pathologist or for TCGA'

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

 

Date

Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

