SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT

 

/(LA , a ’3,
C N ber: V
ase um 4&0» I ”W 4 “MWS
M J’ﬁb? W, W ant/WW
c: 50, 5‘
. . 0pm cﬂ- 7
DiagnOSIs:
Breast, right, mastectomy l/JZ”,
Tumor type: invasive ductal carcinoma with extensive fibrosis (see comment)
Nottingham combined histologic grade: 2
Tubule formation score: 2 A 1c9aa1ecc532
Nuclear Pleomorphism Score: 3 UUIDﬁgﬁﬂfﬂﬁfgﬂﬁz' Redacfed
Mimic C°“"t 5““ 2 III IIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

I|I|II|I|IIH|| IIII|||||I|||H||I|||I|
Focality of tumor: single focus |I‘l‘l‘IH‘II‘IIPI‘IlI{lul‘lilwl‘llll‘llIIIIIIIlllIIII IIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.5 cm (see comment)

aymphovascular invasion: present (A8)

 

In Situ Component: present

In Situ Component type/Architecture pattern: solid and cribriform
In Situ Component nuclear grade: 3

In Situ Component necrosis: none identiﬁed

In Situ Component extent/size: DCIS is present with tumor and focally away from tumor. Size is approximately 6 mm.
Extensive intraductal component: Absent. The DCIS comprises approximately 2% of total tumor.

Nipple involvement: none identiﬁed

Skin involvement: none identiﬁed

Margin status:

vasive component: >5 mm
Situ component: >5 mm

 

Axillary lymph nodes:

Total number with metastasis: 7

Total number examined: 10 (1 from part A, 9 from part B below)

Size of largest metastasis: 1.3 cm (A14, A15)

Extracapsular extension: present and extends into fibrous septae of surrounding fibroadipose tissue @

Microcalciﬁcations: associated with invasive carcinoma, ductal carcinoma in situ, and sclerosing adenosis

Other ﬁndings:

- Fibrocystic changes with ductal epithelial hyperplasia.
- Sclerosing adenosis.

— Benign skeletal muscle.

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2 pNZa
Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to
change pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Soft tissue, axillary contents, removal

- Six of nine lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma (6/9).
- Largest metastatic focus 1.3 cm.

- Extracapsular extension is present.

Comment:

Although two foci of carcinoma were previously identified radiologically (2.0 cm and 1.5 cm) and sampled by core
biopsy, only one large focus of tumor is identiﬁed grossly in this mastectomy specimen. Gross examination has

been repeated several times and additional sections submitted with no second tumor nodule identified. A second firm
nodule was identified 3 cm away from the ﬁrst, but microscopically it appeared to be sclerosing adenosis and this was
confirmed with positive immunostaining with p63 and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain (A17). The current single
focus of tumor is extremely fibrotic and measures 3.5 cm (which is equal to the two previously identified foci combined).
0f the two foci initially seen, one was described as superﬁcial and the other deep, but they were very close to each
other (10:00 and 9:00 to 10:00). The current large focus is located at 9:00 ‘tjo 0:00 and extends from superficial to

deep. Histologically, the tumor demonstrates morphologic features consistent with both of the previous core biopsies
(predominant morphology is that of the "deep" core with some areas resembling the "superﬁcial" core). The
different-appearing areas merge into each other and are part of the same nodule of tumor.

 

Immunostain for e—cadherin was performed on a couple of areas that have lobular features (similar to the superﬁcial
core biopsy); it is positive, confirming the ductal phenotype of the tumor (A8, B3). Immunostain for AE1/AE3 was
performed on block B8 and confirms no metastatic tumor in that lymph node.

Immunohistochemical stains for ER, PR and HER2/Neu were performed with the following results. These stains were
performed on tumor that resembles the deep core biopsy, and results are similar to those from the deep core biopsy
(except HER2 is 1+ instead of 0, but still considered negative). Material from an additional block (with areas resembling
the superficial core) has been submitted to see if it stains similarly to the superﬁcial core; the original superficial
core showed HER2 at 2+ and amplification by FISH. These results will be reported in an addendum.

 

Results:

  

  

Estrogen receptor ('. , clone SP1):
Interpretation: Positive
_ Computer-assisted quantitative score: 100%

Progesterone receptor (‘ , clone 1E2):
Interpretation: Positive
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 12%

HER2/neu (Ventana, clone 485, FDA-approved):
Interpretation: Negative (not overexpressed)
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 1+

Site: right breast

Performed on block: A7

Fixation: 10% neutral buffered formalin
Fixation time: 6-48 hours

Reference range:
Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor: <1%=NEGATIVE, 1-10% WEAK POSITIVE, >10% POSITIVE

HER2/neu: 0,1=NEGATIVE FOR OVEREXPRESSION, 2=|NDETERM|NATE, 3=POSlTIVE FOR OVEREXPRESSlON

 

omment:
The quantitative scores reported above were obtained using the FDA-approved)
The control slides for this case show appropriate staining.

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed as analyte specific reagents (ASR) or
research use only (RUO) reagents. These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

l ‘ ‘ These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Clinical History:

with right breast cancer.

Gross Description:

eceived are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A:

Specimen fixation: formalin

Time in ﬁxative: 9 hours

Type of mastectomy: modiﬁed radical

Weight of specimen: 970 grams

Size of specimen: 25 cm medial to lateral, 24 cm superior to inferior, and 3.5 cm anterior to posterior
Orientation of specimen: lnking: lateral=yellow, anterior=blue, posterior=black

Skin ellipse dimensions: 21.5 x 16.3 cm

Nipple/areola: 0.6 cm/3.4 cm, respectively

Axillary tail: absent

Biopsy site: not identified

Discrete Mass(es): present; one large firm mass is identified. The cut surface is tan with small areas of hemorrhage and
fat necrosis. The mass is well demarcated and lobular in shape.

 

Number of discrete masses: one

Size of mass (es)/biopsy site: 3.5 x 2.9 x 1.8 cm

Location of mass(es): upper outer quadrant
‘xs\_'__/’— -—\__ ,

Distance of mass/biopsy site from surgical margin: 2.4 cm from the black inked posterior margin and 4.5 cm from the
closest blue inked anterior margin.

Gross involvement of skin or fascia/muscle by tumor: absent

Description of remaining breast: The remainder of the breast tissue is predominantly yellow lobulated fat which is
interspersed with delicate strands of white ﬁbroconnective tissue.

Other remarkable features: There is an arterial graft in the subareolar breast tissue that runs from the superior to
inferior aspects of the specimen. This graft is 11.7 cm long and 1.4 cm in diameter.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: tumor and normal tissue are submitted for‘

Addendum: On further gross examination, a second mass is identified. The second mass is approximately 3 cm medial , .
the first mass. The second mass is a well circumscribed, white firm nodule measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. This mass is 1%
cm from the nearest blue inked anterior margin, 3.0 cm from the nearest black inked deep margin, and 3.0 cm from the
skin. There is no evidence of hemorrhage or necrosis associated with this mass. (Histologically, this mass is sclerosing

adenosis.)

Block Summary.
@Inking: lateral: yellow, anterior=blue, posterior=black)

A1 - perpendicular sections of nipple

A2 - areola, en face

A3 - representative section of mass with closest black inked posterior margin
A4 — representative section of breast tissue from closest anterior margin
A5—A9 - representative sections of mass

A10 - representative section of breast tissue from upper inner quadrant
A11 - representative section of breast tissue from lower inner quadrant
A12 - representative section of breast tissue from lower outer quadrant
A13 - representative section of breast tissue from upper outer quadrant
A14,A15 - intraparenchymal lymph node, serially sectioned

A16—A18- second mass, submitted entirely from lateral to medial

Container B holds a 9.5 x 5.4 x 3.5 cm mass of yellow/tan lobulated fat with associated connective tissue. This specimen
is unoriented. The specimen is dissected to identified lymph node candidates and multiple lymph node candidates
are identified. The largest candidate measures 3.1 x 1.9 x 1.0 cm.

Block summary:

31,32 - largest lymph node candidates, serially sectioned
B3 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B4 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
BS - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
86 - three lymph node candidates
B7 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B8 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
39 — two lymph node candidates
810 - three lymph node candidates
B11 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
BIZ - one lymph node candidate

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed
as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the
Anatomic Pathology Department, ' ‘ These reagents have not been cleared or
--proved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval' Is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to perform

  

high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Signature
Resident Physician:

 

Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
The following addendum is issued to report the results of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER2/neu
immunohistochemical studies.

Results:

Estrogen receptor (" I, clone SP1):
Interpretation: Positive
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 94%

Progesterone receptor I clone 1E2):
Interpretation: Negative
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 0%

 

HER2/neu ( clone 485, FDA-approved):
Interpretation: Positive (overexpressed)
Computer-assisted quantitative score: 3+ (see note)

NOTE:

This block (A5) includes areas that show morphologies similar to both the superﬁcial and deep cores. ER and PR are
relatively homogeneous throughout the tumor, regardless of morphology. Immunostain for HER2 is heterogeneous, but
staining does not correlate with any particular morphology. There is enough strong complete staining to interpret the
HER2 as 3+ (overexpressed); however, areas in this block range from no staining to strong and complete staining.

Site: right breast

Performed on block: A5

Fixation: 10% neutral buffered formalin
Fixation time: 6-48 hours

Reference range:
Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor: <1%=NEGATIVE, 1-10% WEAK POSITIVE, >10% POSITIVE

 

HER2/new O,1=NEGAT|VE FOR OVEREXPRESSION, 2=lNDETERMlNATE, 3=POSlTlVE FOR OVEREXPRESSION

Comment:

‘ The quantitative scores reported above were obtained using the FDA-approved
The control slides for this case show appropriate staining.

 

ome of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR) or
research use only (RUO) reagents. These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

_ _. -. These reagents have not
been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance
or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as
qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

