- Date of Procedure: ~
- 'ck Date of Receipt:

. ‘ Neck Date of Report:
” Account #:
Billing Type:

 

Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Dlaannsis & History: _ ’

year old ,vith left papillary thyroid carcinoma and right thyroid nodule showing atypical cells.
Sgecimens Submitted: uum:sausnss-Asaa-usu-soas-sszsa7rcase7
1: Right paratracheal tissue, excision (is) TCGA-DJ-ABUO-o

-PR Redaiuted

2: right level three and four lymph nodes, excision Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllililllllllllllllll lllllllllllll

3: Left neck level three and four lymph nodes. exciS'O" (is) lllllllllllllllllllllHllllll l lllllllllllllllllllllll l l Ill Ill

 

4:Th 'd,ttalth 'd t
5:lei’iiral‘iacl.ei'izsiiZI‘iclslon Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right paratracheal tissue, excision (fs):
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma I CD’D’B .
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1 , ‘ (j
, Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1 ' D714 , “,1, -
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.5cm. m (‘0' n 6‘ ’PQP ’1 / 1% ‘1 {‘0'
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.5 cm. 7a“ 43/8

Extranodal extension is identiﬁed
S/K:%\.1f0iz;l,F-DQS

2. Right level three and four lymph nodes, excision: .

Lymph Node Dissection: C7 3 a ’D’ 2:1 2.
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma ‘40
Number of lymph nodes examined: 10
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumon 0.9cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.3 cm.
Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

 

3. Left neck level three and four lymph nodes, excision (fs):
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 11

 

4. Thyroid. total thyroidectomy:
Tumor Type:
Papillary carcinoma, classical type
Two foci

Hlstologic Grade:
Well differentiated

 

Page 1 of4

Mitotic Activity:
Not identified

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Location:
Left lobe
Right lobe

Tumor Size:
The tumor foci measure 2.8 cm (right lobe) and 1.5 cm (left lobe) in greatest dimension

Tumor Encapsulation:
None identiﬁed

Blood Vessel Invasion:
identiﬁed , at 3 tool of vascular invasion including a focus in the extrathyroidal tissue

Extrathyrold Extension:
invadeszperithyroid ﬁbroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Muitlcentrlclty:
Gross foci present

Non~Neoplastic Thyroid:
No abnormalities identiﬁed
Parathyroid Glands:
Identiﬁed
One unremarkable parathyroid gland in the left lobe

Lymph Nodes:
Metastatic papillary carcinoma involving one lymph node (1/1). the lymph node measures 0.7 cm and is almost
totally replaced by tumor

 

5. Left paratracheal tisssue, excision:
Lymph Node Dissection:

Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.4cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.4 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed
Benign parathyroid gland is identifed.

 

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT‘

' a.
*** Report electronicaliylsﬁ‘led Out ""

 

Gross Description:
W

 

Page 2 at 4

1. The specimen is received fresh. labeled “Right paratracheal tissue”. it consists of fat and a lymph node measuring 1.8 x 0.6 x 0.3
cm. The lymph node measures 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The lymph node is submitted entirely for frozen section.

Summary of Sections: .
FSC— frozen section control

t

2. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "right level three and four lymph nodes" and consists of multiple possible lymph nodes
measuring from 0.2 cm up to 1.0 cm In greatest dimensions. All possible lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes 4....
G

3.The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Left neck level ill and IV lymph nodes". it consists of fat and lymph nodes. The lymph
nodes range in size from 0.1 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are submitted entirely for frozen section. The
remaining fat is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:

FSCA ~ frozen section control, approximately 5 lymph nodes
FSCB - frozen section control. two lymph nodes

RS - remaining fat with possible lymph nodes

s
4. The specimen is received fresh , labeled "total thyroidectomy. stitch marks left lobe of thyroid" and consists of a thyroid weighing
30.5 g. The right lobe measures keep on 3.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm, the left lobe measures 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm and the isthmus measures
1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The external surface is covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black,
and the anterior is inked blue. Sectioning reveals one large previously open nodule in the right lobe measuring 2.8 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm.
Sections through the remaining tissue reveal a nodule in the left lobe measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. The left lobe also contains
another second smaller nodule measuring 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red tan and beefy.
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for The remaining tissue is serially sectioned and representatively
submitted.

Summary of sections:
RN — right nodule

LN (1)~ Left nodule
LN (2)— left lobe

RL - right lobe

LL - left lobe

IS — isthmus

 

5. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "left paratracheal tissue" and consists of an irregular piece of adipose tissue
measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 0.4 cm. it is dissected to reveal a lymph node measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. All identified lymph nodes are
submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN - lymph nodes
AD- rest of adipose tissue

Summag of Sections:

Part 1: Right paratracheal tissue, excision (fs)

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 FSC 1

Part 2: Right level three and four lymph nodes, excision .

Block Sect. Site PCs
4 LN 4

Part 3: Left neck level three and four lymph nodes, excision (fs)

 

Page 3 of 4

in.” s

