SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Addendum Present

 

Name Med. Rec #.
Accession #: Location:

Date of Procedure: Race:
Date Received: DOB/Sex:

Submitting Physician:

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

A. AND B. LEFT FRONTAL TUMOR, BIOPSY AND EXCISION:
--OL|GODENDROGLIOMA (WHO GRADE II), SEE NOTE.

Note: Analysis for allelic loss on chromosomes 1p and 19q will be performed and the results reported in an addendum.

Electronically Signed Out By
B the si nature on this re ort, the individual or rou listed as makin the Final Inter retation/Dia nosis certifies that they have reviewed this case.

 

lntraoperative Consultation:
A. Touch imprint and microscopic: Glioma, favor oligodendroma

Addendum/Procedures:

Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

Addendum Diagnosis
{Not Entered}

Addendum Comment

Date Completed:

Specimen Source: LEFT FRONTAL TUMOR, BIOPSY AND EXCISION

Paraffin Block No.: —

TUMOR T ISSUE ASSESSMENT

FISH FOR 1P/19Q

RESULTS

Chromosome 1p: Intact, aneusomic
Chromosome 19q: Intact, eusomic

Quantitative FISH results
1p36:3.3

1q25:3.2

1p36/1q25 ratio: 1.0
19q13:2.0

19q13: 2.5

19q13/19p13 ratio: 0.8

INTERPRETAT ION

1p intact: A majority of nuclei showed similar numbers of lp36 and qu5 signals. There is no
evidence of allelic loss on the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p).

19q intact: A majority of nuclei showed similar numbers of l9q13 and l9p13 signals. There is no
evidence of allelic loss of 19q.

Allelic loss at one locus does not necessarily predict the presence of alterations at other loci
on the same chromosome, i.e. FISH may not detect partial allelic loss. FISH may not detect
allelic losses if there is loss of one allele and replication on the allele.

Comment:
Allelic loss on chromosome 1p has been shown to correlate with with chemoresponsiveness and long
progression—free survival in some gliomas. This correlation is stronger when there is concomitant
allelic loss on 19q. An association of chemoresponsiveness and/or long progression—free survival
with allelic loss on 19q in the absence of loss on 1p has not been established. In patients with
1p/19q loss,

    

Method:

The integrity of the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p) and long arm of chromosome 19 (19q) was
evaluated with interphase florescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on formalin—fixed paraffin
embedded tissue sections using locus—specific probes target (lp36, l9q13) and reference probes
(1q25,19p13) (Abbott Melecular/Vysis, des Plaines, IL). The analysis was performed on areas of
glial neoplasm and only atypical nuclei with two or more reference probe signals were counted.
Reported quantitative data represents an average of 40 nuclei. Loss is defined as a ratio of less
than or equal to 0.7./ Aneusomy is defined as a mean of greater that or equal to 3.0 for the
reference probe signals (1q25, l9pl3).

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER

This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine Institute at _ The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has
not approved or cleared this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required
for clinical use.

NOTE: One or more of the reagents used to perform assays on this specimen MAY have contained

components considered to be analyte specific reagents (ASRs). ASRs have not been cleared or
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. These assays were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the ). A

copy of their report is on file in the Department of Anatomic Pathology

Clinical History:
Left temporal tumor

Specimens Submitted As:
A:LEFT FRONTAL TUMOR

B:LEFT FRONTAL TUMOR

Gross Description:
A: Received fresh for intraoperative consultation, labeled with patient's name, hospital number and "left frontal tumor",

are multiple pink-white soft tissue fragments, 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. Representative tissue is submitted for
touch imprint and frozen section. The reminder of the specimen is submitted entirely for permanent in 2 cassettes.

B: Received fresh, post fixed in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and number, are multiple irregular, opaque
white to tan to brown, soft tissue fragments measuring in aggregate 2.2 x 2.1 x 0.25 cm. Submitted in toto in one
cassette.

