***ADDENDED***
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right temporaltumor: OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, GRADE ii OF iv (who
SCALE), SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

2. Right temporal lobe tumor: OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, GRADE ii OF iv (who
SCALE), SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

3. Right temporal lesion: Pending complete submission of remaining
tissue.

Comment:

The ki-67 proliferation index is 4.5%. Several studies have indicated

that oligodendrogliomas with proliferation indices of greater than 5%

are associated with a significantly decreased five-year survival rate
compared to those with proliferation indices of less than 5%. The
different survival rates are, respectively, 83% versus 24% (1). FISH

for the 1p/19q deletion has been ordered and when completed, a separate
report will be issued.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Ki67

Percent : 4.5

3+ % : 3.1

2+ % : 0.65

1+ % : 0.7

0 % : 95.47

Cells counted : 128,037

This test was performed by. in conjunction with the—

assisted image analysis.

Addendum

Specimen #3 contains small quantities of infiltrating
oligodendroglioma, grade II.

All tissue for specimen #3 has been submitted.

Microscopic Description:
1. Right temporal tumor:
History of Previous Tumor/Familial Syndrome: None known

Specimen Type/Procedure: Resection

Specimen Handling: Squash / smear/touch preparation
Frozen section

Specimen Size: Cannot be determined: Multiple

separate specimens

Laterality: Right

Tumor Site: Brain/cerebrum-Temporal

Histologic Type and Grade: Oligodendroglioma (WHO grade II)

Histologic Grade: WHO Grade II

Margins: Cannot be assessed

Ancillary Studies: Immunohistochemistry: Ki67

 

Frozen Section Diagnosis:
1. Right temporal tumor: Glial neoplasm. No obvious anaplasia in this
material.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

brain mass

Source of Specimen:

1: Right temporal tumor

2: Right temporal lobe tumor
3: Right temporal lesion

Gross Description:

—

1. Right temporal tumor: Received fresh for frozen section analysis
in a specimen container labeled with the patient's name and "#1 right
temporal tumor consistent with low-grade glioma" is a single fragment
of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. Touch preps are
prepared. Approximately 80% of the specimen is submitted for frozen
section analysis. The specimen is entirely submitted in 2 cassettes as
follows:

A frozen section control

B. remainder of the specimen

2. Right temporal lobe tumor: Received fresh in a specimen container
labeled with the patient's name and "#2 right temporal lobe tumor
consistent with glioma" are multiple fragments of tan-pink soft tissue
measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely
submitted in 1 cassette.

3. Right temporal lesion: Received in formalin in the specimen are
labeled with the patient's name and "#3 right temporal lesion" single
fragment of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 5.3 x 2.1 0.4 cm. The
specimen is serially sectioned to reveal tan-pink and tan-white cut
surfaces. No discrete lesions are identified grossly. The entire
specimen has been submitted.

Histology Laboratory

Part 1: Right temporal tumor
1p - FISH

Kl 67 (Aperio)

MOLECULAR H&E

Immunohistochemistry Notes
1. Quantification of immunohistochemistry assay for ER and PR studies

is by the method of- et-al- —

2. Pathway Her-2/neu (4B5) (Rabbit monoclonal) - Formalin-fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue.

Interpretation follows the manufacturer' 5 recommendation.

3. EGFR (3C6) (Mouse Monoclonal) Formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded
tissue.

4. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent
(ASR). These tests were developed and their performance

characteristics determined by the Clinical Laboratory of-
—

They have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.

   

M EDICAL GENETICS REPORT
EVALUATION:

ASSAY PERFORMED: del(1p)de|(19q) BY FLUORESCENCE IN-SITU HYBRIDIZATION
(FISH)

RESULT: Positive for the deletion of 1p
Positive for the deletion of 19q

NOMENCLATURE:nuc ish 1p36(P73 x 1"3),1q24(ANGPTL1 x
1~3)[200]/19p13(ZNF44 x 1"5),19q13(GLTSCR x 1"3)[200]

1p36/1q24

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 1p/1q: 0.60

% cells with del 1p: 71%

19q13/19p13

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 19q/19p: 0.56

% cells with del 19q: 73%

INTERPRETATION: The results are less than the normal range and suggest

deletions of 1p and 19q in this Oligodendroglioma_ del
(1p) and del(19q) has been observed in glioma specimens, especially

oligodendrogliomas. Clinical and pathologic correlation is recommended.

Comment:

(Cytogeneticist)

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Data Analysis:

DESCRIPTION OF THE ASSAY: 1p and 19q FISH studies were performed on
paraffin embedded tumor sections. Two hybridizations were performed:
one with a 1p/1q probe/control pair and one with a 19q/19p
probe/control pair. The 19q and 1p probes map to regions that are
commonly deleted in gliomas. The nuclei are counterstained with DAPI
and the cells examined by epi-fluorescence microscopy. The total
number of counts for each probe is determined in 200 cells and the
ratios of 1p/1q and 19q/19p are calculated.

Normal range: The normal ratio is approximately 1. Any ratio > 0.80 is
considered normal.

LIMITATIONS: Low levels of malignant cells in the specimen can result
in a false negative result. As with all laboratory tests, sampling

error and other factors may affect the outcome of the assay.
Correlation of results with other clinical and laboratory data should
be obtained.

COMMENT: This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by the Molecular Pathology Laboratory at—

—. It has not been cleared or approved by the US.

Food and Drug Administration.

This test is not to be used as a diagnostic procedure without
confirmation of the diagnosis by another medically established product
or procedure.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:
Oligodendroglioma, Grade II.

F

Part 1: FISH-BRAIN
Morphometric analysis (88368)
TEST (Cytogenetic)

