UUID:2424547C-B§A9-M5C-56C3-158C260R4FeAEFa
TCGA- SA- AB49- 91A- PR

l 'llll'llllllll'lllllllllllllllllIlllll"'

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #2
MR #: SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #2
LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: F DATE RECEIVED:
DOB: TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:
Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out

Date Complete:

By:
Date Reported:

The diagnosis remains unchanged.

GMS and AFB special stains on selected lymph node slides are negative for fungal and acid-fast organisms.

 

14:00 (:3
(7 CIW41~M<WA7 12 Wnpumzuﬂg H032 3370/5
,- ‘~ I \. .-.- _ —
' 94b; (gait/lg / Italian MK. 085413
A: bronchial margins of left lower lobe

B: level 9 lymph node ‘ c, WOO/6 o//H
C: level 5 lymph node
D: level 6 lymph node
E: level 7 lymph node

 

A. Lung and lymph nodes, bronchial margins of left lower lobe. lobectomy:
Non small cell carcinoma. consistent with moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. See comment.
Lymph nodes (5): Non—caseating granulomas and anthracosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. (0/5)

B. Lymph node (1): level 9 lymph node, biopsy:
Non-caseating granulomas and anthracosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. (0/1)

C. Lymph node (1). level 5 lymph node, biopsy:
Non-caseating granulomas, anthracosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. (0/1)

D. Lvmph node (1). level 6 lvmoh node. bioosv:

MR #: Page 1 of 1
Date of Printlng: SU RGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Number:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #:

Non-caseating granulomas, anthracosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. (Ol1)

E. Lymph node (1), level 7 lymph node, biopsy:
Non-caseating granulomas, anthracosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. (0/1)

Comment;
Lung
Specimen Type: Lobectomy
Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Left lower lobe
Tumor Size: 5.5 x 4.5 x 0.8 cm
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated
Margins: (Vascular, Bronchial, Pleural, Parenchymal)
All margins are uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Direct Extension of Tumor. Into pleura
Vascular Invasion: Absent
Perineurallnvasion: Absent
Lymph Nodes:
Number Examined: 9
Number Involved: 0
Additional Pathologic Findings: Non caseating granulomas in lymph nodes
Gross Picture Taken: No
Pathologlc Staging: pT2 N0 Mx

Primary Tumor (pT)

pT2: Tumor with any of the following features of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension; involves main

bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitls that
extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Distant Metastasis (pM)
pMX: Cannot be assessed

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reﬂects only current pathologic data and does not
incorporate full knowledge of the patient's clinical status and/or prior pathology.

Pursuant to the this case has been concurrently reviewed by the following
pathologist: who agrees with the above diagnosis.

The tumor is positive for p63 and negative for TTF-1 immunostains supporting the above diagnosis.

MEL";

By this signature, I attest that l have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.
”Electronically Signed Out By***
Interpreted by:

 

 

A. Received fresh with patient's name and "bronchial margins left lower lobe frozen" is a 278 gram and 15.0 x 8.9 x 5.6 cm lung.
The pleural surface of the lung is tan-purple and smooth with a single area of retraction 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The external surface near
the tumor is inked black. The bronchi are opened to reveal a tumor with central necrosis, 5.5 x 4.5 x 0.8 cm that is 1.0 cm from

 

MR #2 Page 2 of 2

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #1 ALT ID #:

the bronchial margin. The uninvolved lung is tan-red and spongy. There are ﬁve hilar lymph nodes ranging from 0.6 x 0.2 x 0.2
cm to 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:
A1 FS Bronchial margin.

A2 Vascular margin.

A3 Three nodes.

A4 One bisected node.

A5 One bisected node.

A6 Tumor to pleura.

A7 Tumor to bronchus.

A8 Tumor to grossly normal tissue.
A9 Tumor.

A10 Grossly normal lung.

B. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "level 9 lymph node" is a 1.4 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm tan and smooth lymph
node. The node is bisected to reveal a black-red cut surface. It is entirely submitted in cassette B1.

C. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "level 5 lymph node" is a 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm tan smooth lymph node.
The node is submitted entirely in cassette C1.

D. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "level 6 lymph node" is a 1.6 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm tan lymph node. The
node is bisected to reveal a black-red cut surface. It is entirely submitted in mssette D1.

E. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and ”level 7 lymph node" is a 1.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm lymph node. The node is
bisected to reveal a tan cut surface with points of black-red throughout. It is entirely submitted in cassette E1.

A1 FS: Bronchus, "bronchial margins of left lower lobe", lobectomy:
Negative for malignancy

If immunohistochemical stains and/or' In situ hybridization are cited "1 this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the

lin compliance with CLIA‘ 88
regulations Some of these tests rely on the use of' ‘analyte specific reagents” and are subject to speciﬁc labeling requirements by the FDA. Known
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the

. It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary.

 

 

MR #:

Page 3 of 3
Date of Printing: . SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

