uum:s71ssz7s-asc4-45AF-aza4-1casac1nzssa
TCGA-FP-Asm-eu-PR Redacted

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

‘ Referring Physician:

 

 

 

DOB: Age: Gender: M
Rem: Hospﬁ: Patient Lecation:
Date of Service: Date Received: Case it:

Date Reported:

J

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Ié D {b - 3
Diagnosis: _ Q .
@ﬂﬂaia/wﬂwﬁ HDL) (EN/Ola

A. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: __ (J AME“ Club
-FUNDAL ADENOMYOMA. SAIL; WWMI‘QWM J

~ONE BENIGN LYMPH MODE (ON). T )40 [’5]ij L/
~ NEGATIVE FOR DYSPLASIA AND MALIGNANCY.

B. APPENDIX. APPENDECTOMY:
- NO DIAGNOSTIC ALTERATION.
- NEGATIVE FOR DYSPLASIA AND MALIGNANCY.

C. - D. STOMACH AND FINAL ESOPHAGEAL MARGIN, TOTAL GASTRECTDMY
WITH PROXIMAL MARGIN EXCISION:

- INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA. MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATE D.
- Size 2.9 cm
- Tumor invades submucosa.
~ Positive for lymphovascuiar invasion.
- MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR MALlGNANCY.
- TWO OF TWENTY-FIVE LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTASIS (2125).

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Hlstologic type and grade: Esophagogastric junction (Gastric cardia)
Adenocarcinoma, Grade 2.
Primary tumor: pT1b.
Regional lymph nodes: pN1.
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Pathologic stage: "8.
Margin status: R0. negative.
Lymphovascular invasion: Positive.
Perineural invasion: Negative.

Case #: Page ,1

Printed: This report continues." (F lNAL)

 

 

 

Datianf‘

 

 

Case 11:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Tumor Staging Information

Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modified from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, June, 2012.

Case a

Page 2
Printed: T his report continues... {FINAL}

 

 

 

 

Patient

 

 

 

 

Case #
Specimen: Total stomach.
Procedure: Total gastrectomy.
Tumor site: Gastric cardia.

Relationship of tumor to esophageal gastric junction:

Tumor size:

Histologictype:

Histologic grade:

Microscopic tumor extension:

Margins:
Proximal margin:
Distal margin:
Circumferentiai margin;

Treatment effect:
Lymphovascuiar invasion:
Perineurai invasion:

Pathciogic tumor staging summary:
Primary tumor:
Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:

Additional pathologic findings:

Tumor midfpoint lies in the proximai stomach {cardia}
and tumor involves the esophagogastrio junction.

2.9 x 1.8 cm.
Adenocarcinoma.

Grade 2, moderate

Tumor invades submuoosa.

Negative.
Negative.
Negative.

Not applicable.
Positive.
Not identified.

pT’ib.
9N1.
N/A.

Severe antral chemical gastritis with focal activity and
foveolar hyperpiasia.

Fundic gland polyps.
Hyperpiastic polyps.

 

Case it:

Printed;

Page 3
This report continues... [FiNAL)

 

 

Patient!

 

 

Case #:‘

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Signed in y

 

§gurce of Sgecimen:

A. Gallbladder

8. Appendix

C. Total gastrectomy

D. Esophagusgl'inal esophageal margin (frozen section}

Clinical Hlstongperative Ox:

Stomach cancer.

lntragperative Diagnosis:

D. Final esophageal margin (F501):
- ﬁnal margin negative.

Reported by

Wtianis} was/were performed and rendered at—

Gros Des rl ﬁon:

A. Received in a formalin containeriabeled as A per requisition is an intact gallbladder measuring 9.9 x
3,3 x 2.8 cm. The serosa is glistening, tense, partially fatty and tan~grean The wall-is 0.1 to 0.3 cm,
including serosal fat, and the lumen contains a copious amount of viscous, dark green bile without calculi.
The bile is strained along with the contents of the container. and no calculi/particulate matter is
appreciated. The wallof the dome is thickened up to 0.8 cm over an area of 1.3 x 0.8 cm. The cut surface
demonstrates minute to 0.2 cm cystic/fluid-lilled spaces. The mucosa is thin, velvety. semi-congested, red
and tan~green without additional, grossly unusual areas at change. Representative sections are submitted

for microscopic evaluation including representation stic duct margin (orange), mid furious and
thickened area of fundus (entirely submitted) in A1.

B. Received in a formalin container labeled as B per requisition is a vermiforrn appendix measuring 6.6 x
0.? cm. The serosa is hyperemic, pink and tan. Sectioning demonstrates a 0.2 to 0.4 cm lumen containing
watery, dark green fecal matter. There is no well-organized fecalith, and the wall appears intact.
Representative sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation, including entire submission of the
bisected apex. representation of the proximal surgical margin (orange) and mid length in B1. -

C. Received within afresh state in a container labeled "total gastrectomy“ is an apparent total
gastrectomy specimen measuring 30.1 out along the greater curvature. and 21.0 cm along the lesser
curvature- The esophageal margin is 2.5 cm in diameter. the radius or which is now marked black. The
apparent distal margin of resection is up to 3.5 cm in diameter. The gastric serosa is hyperemic pink and

Case #2 page 4
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

 

Dalian?

 

 

Case ii.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

tan. with increased purple-red hemorrhagic congestion towards the proximal margin of resection. An g
abundant amount of perigastrlc fat is present along the lesser curvature. extending out to 6.7 cm, while
the greater curvature is predominantly absent of fat. The length of the specimen is opened along the
greater curvature. revealing at irregular. dusky red tumor mass. abutting the proximal margin of resection.
at the edge of the lesser curvature, measuring upwards of 2.9 x‘ 1.8 cm and raised to 0.5 cm. Sectioning
through the lesion demonstrates possible invasion into the gastric well. however, appears grossly conﬁned.
within 0.2 cm of the radial surgical margin (Ci),

Scattered throughout the stomach are several grossly confined. delicate light pink and tan polyps ranging
from 0.3- 0.8 cm (x10). Within 2.5 cm of the apparent distal margin of resection. approximating the
pyldrus. the mucosa demonstrates a raised dusky red appearance over an area of 4.7): 1.6 cm. Sectioning
through this apparent lesion demonstrates gross conﬁnement to the mucosa. No additional lesions
appreciated.

Examination of the perigastric fat of the lesser curvature reveals Monty-three lymph nodes ranging from
0.2 - 0.7 pm, soft to rubbery and firm light pink and tan. Lymph node tissue is entirely submitted for
microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary:

Ci) proxrmai margin of resection (orange). lesion relationship at invasive tumor relationship,
02-67) mass near proximai gastric margin. blocked out, sectioned and entirely submitted,
caldistai margin of resection trimmed and submitted,

09] two polyps.

(:10) ten polyps.

C? 1 Ti two polyps.

(:12) Six polyps.

(213-018) mass near distal margin of resection. blocked out and submitted,

C19) mid and proximal stomach possibie additional polyps.

020} distal end of stomach, including possible small bowel.

(:21) six lymph nodes.

(:22). six lymph nodes.

023) six lymph nodes.

C24) five lymph nodes.

025) ﬁve iymph nodes.-

D. initially received in the fresh state for frozen section evaluation is a 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.5 cm portion of
esophageal tissue. The apparent mucosa is glistening. tight tan to deep red without gross tumor
involvement. A suture marks the final margin (oriented by and the specimen is held
together by a purse string suture. The final margin is now trimmed and submitted for frozen section
evaluation with the residual frozen tissue submitted in Di for permanent sections. The remainder of the
specimen is submitted from final marginend towards opposite and in DZ and 03.

Migroggogic Description:

Case #1 Page 5
Printed: i This report continues. {FINAL}

 

 

% Patient:

 

 

 

 

Case #:

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

A. Sections of the gallbladder snow benign glandular extension into the wall of the tundus with prominent
dilatation consistent with an adenomyorna. There is a single benign lymph node (on; No dysplasia or
malignancy is identified.

B. Sections of the appendix show an unremarkable appendix. Thee is a rare gland with a few neutrophlls
in the tumen but no significant activity is present. No dysplasia or malignancy is identified.

C. Sections of the total gastrectomy show an adenocarcinoma arising just distal to the esophagogastric
junction. The tumor is primarily gland forming (>50%) with areas of abundant extracellular mucin. in some
areas. the tumor forms microgiends, small nests and occasional single cells. There are a few scattered
Signet ring cell forms but these are not the predominant cell type. The tumor invades the submucose but
no tumor involvement of the muscularis propria is identiﬁed. A focus of lymphatic invasion is present. No
petineural invasion is identiﬁed. The distal and circumferential margin is uninvolved.

A total of twenty—five lymph nodes are identified. There are two lymph nodes with metastatic
adenooarcinoma in the subcapsular sinus (2/25). No extracapsular extension is present.

There are multiple fundic gland polyps and a few small hyperplastic polyps. The polyps are free of
dysplasia. The gastric antrum has prominent chemical gastropathy with a few focal areas of activity and
relatively diffuse foveolar hyperplasia.

D. The sections of the final proximal esophageal margin show benign esophageal wall without tumor
involvement. No malignancy is identified.

Case 3:

Page 6
Printed: REPRlNT: Orig. printing on

 

 

 

