UUID:6342557E-FIIC7-499E-8726-6FF533AE95F Date Printed:

TceA-Ts-A7ov-e1A-PR Redacted
D te C llected :
lllIIIllIlllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll . _ 03.. gm.
Illlllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Age: years Sex: Male Accession Noz~
Ill llllllllllllllllllllll | II I lllll II" I III“ | | || lllllll I II III III :hysiiign:
opy :

 

l Sara/cal Palaalayymﬂaaart I

W @085

, ‘ ' v65
pee ' ’ 90 52/ .1
Clinical Information W/ 1W
year old male with mesothelioma; Pleurectomy, PDT ‘ 9555/3
6 ‘E l E WM.) N03
Final Diagnosis Q3 3' 4/

1. PREVIOUS BIOPSY SiTE:
Fragment of skin showing foci of foreign body giant cell reaction to talc partictes within the superfacial and deep dermis.

Negative for malignancy.

2. RIGHT RlB:

Benign lamellar bone containing unremarkable bone marrow elements.
Asdherent striated muscle and flbroadipose tissue.

Negative for malignancy.

3. lNTEHNAL MAMMARY MODE:-
One tymph node. positive for metastatic malignant mesotheltoma (1/1).

4. PERICARDlAL LN FAT:
Four of six lymph nodes, positive for metastatic malignant mesotheiioma (4/6).
Separate fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing nodular aggregate of malignant mesotheiioma also identified.

5. MAJOR FlSSUFiE:
Alveolar lung parenchyrna with a focus of malignant mesothelioma.

6. POSTERlOR iNTERCOSTAL NODE:
Seven of seven lymph nodes, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (7/7).
Extranodai tumor extension also noted.

7. LUNG iMPLANT:

Noduiar tool of malignant mesothelioma within the visceral pleura.

Tumor also invotves the underlying lung parenchyma.

Separate fragments of tibroadipose tissue showing foot of malignant mesothelioma with adjacent tats granuiomas.
Foot of iymphovascular invasion aiso noted.

8. LEVEL 7:
Nine of of nine fragments of lymph node. positive for metastatic malignant mesothetioma.

9. LEVEL 9:
Five of five lymph nodes, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (5/5).

Name Page 1 of 7
MRN. .

Date Printed:

Date Collected

Date Received:

'ears Sex: Male Accession Nob-
Physician:

Copy to:

   

 

| Surgical Pathology Report I

10. LEVEL 8:

Fragments of fibroadipose tissue and blood clot.

Scattered detached clusters of malignant mesothelioma noted.
No lymph nodes identified.

11. LEVEL 10:
Two of two lymph nodes. positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (2/2).

12. HtLAR NODE:
Two of 4 lymph nodes, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (2/4).

13. LEVEL 4:
Three of 3 lymph nodes, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (3/3).

14. LEVEL 2:
Blood clot, tibroadipose tissue and striated muscle containing a single detached cluster of mailgnant mesothellom a.

15. SUPERIOR MAMMAFtY NUDE:
Fragments of lymph node, no tumor.

16. ANTEFHOR HILAR NODE
One lymph node, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (1/1).

17. POSTEFllOR HlLAR NUDE:
One lymph node, positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (1/1).

18. PHRENlC NODE:
Five ot51ymph nodes positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma (5/5).
Extranodal tumor extension also noted.

19. DlAPHRAGM:
Fragments of fibroadipose tissue and striated muscle showing loci of malignant mesothelioma.
Foot of tymphovascular invasion also noted.

20. PERlESOPHAGEAL LN:
Nine of ten lymph nodes. positive for metastatic malignant mesotheiioma (9/10).
Extranudal tumor extension also noted.

21. PERlAOFiTIC NODE:
Fragments of benign fibroadlpose tissue and striated muscle.

No lymph nodes are identified.
Nam: Page 2 of 7
MR f

Date Printed.

Date Collected :

Date Received:

Age: years Sex: Mate Accession Neg—w
Loo: Physician:

Copy to:

     

 

I Surgical Flillﬂlﬂyi’ lunar! I

22. ADD. DlAPHRAGM:
Fragments of iibroadipose tissue and striated muscle showing ioci oi malignant mesothelioma.

23. PERICARDIAL FAT:
Fragments of benign fibroadipose tissue.
Five lymph nodes. no tumor seen.

24. PHRENlC NERVE:
Fibroadipose tissue containiing large nerve consistent with phrenic nerve.
A nodular icons of malignant mesothelioma noted within the iibroadipose tissue without lnavsion of nerve.

25. AZYGOS VElN:
Fragments of iibroadipose tissue and large vessels.
Negative for malignancy.

26. PERICARDlUM TlSSUE:
Fragments oi iibroadipose tissue showing foci of malignant mesothelioma.

27. PERlCAHDIUM/DIAPHRAGM:

Malignant mesotheiioma,biphasic type containing both epithelioid and sarcomatous component involving the mediastinal
pleura. diaphragmatic pleura and a portion of iateral parietal pleura.

inked pericardial resection margin is tree of tumor.

inked mediasternal fatty tissue margin is also free oi tumor.

inked diaphragmatic pieurel resection margin is free of tumor.

Foot of lwn phatic invasion also noted.

28. RADICAL PLEURECTOMY:

Fragments of iibroadipose tissue showing fact of malignant mesothelioma,biphasic type containing both sarcomatous and
epithelioid componentssee comment.

Feel of tympatic invasion present.

Noduiar foci of talc granulomas aiso noted.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by: MD
(Electronic signature)
Veriﬁcation Date:

Nate

immunostains are performed on block 28A with adequate controls. Tumor cells are positive for cairetinin,CK5/6 and 02-
40. Tumor salts are negative for Tl‘F—1 .WT-1 and CEA. These features are consistent with malignant mesothelioma.

Name. Page 3 of 7
MR:

Date Printed:

Date Collected 1

Date Received:

years Sex: Male Accession No: L__._+_
Physician:

\ Copy to:

   

 

l Surgical'ratﬂalayy Ila'narl I

See disclaimer:

Disclaimer:
The above in~vitro lHC tests may have used reagents labeled for M) (In Vitro Diagnostic Use), lUO {lnvestigational Use
Only) and/or HUD (Research Use Only) and have not been cleared or approved by the U.S Food and Drug
Administration. However, the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for ASR class t tests
intended to provide pathologists with adiunctive information to assist their morphologic evaiuation. The tests using iUO or
IUO reagents were developed and their performance Characteristics were validated for diagnostic use by the

' - ' , This laboratory is
regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
ciinical tests. These Class l ASR tests are not intended to providediagnostic, prognostic, predictive or therapeutic
information that are not directly conﬁrmed by routine histopathoiogic internal or external control specimens.

Frozen section Diagnosis

FSiA & 18: Previous biopsy site. Skin and underlying soft tissue with focal presence of foreign body giant cells and mild

chronic inflammation.
Called Received Reported

F82: Major fissure: Lung parenchyma with focai presence of malignant tumor.
Called , Received Reported

F83: Diaphragm: Mesothelioma present.
Caiied Received Reported

Grass Description
The specimen is received in 28 parts in a container labeled with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is designated “previous biopsy site” and consists of a yellow tan skin fragment with attached adipose tissue.
The skin measures 4.5 x 1.5 cm in surface dimension and 2.5 cm in depth. The previous incision site is gray tan and
measures 2.0 cm in length. the cut surface of subcutaneous tisuue is unremarkable. Representative section is submitted
in three cassettes as follow: Cassette tFSiA and 1FStB fromfrozen seetion,lc representative section of remaining skin.

Specimen #2 is designated "right rib" and consists of three gray tan rib fragments measuring from 5.0 cm to 6.5 crn in
length and from 1.0 cm to 1.8 cm in diameter. The specimen has a minimet amount of soft tissue attached measuring
from less than 0.1 cm to 0.6 cm. Representative section is submitted in cassette 2A after fixation and decalcification.

Nam Page 4 of 7
MRN: G

Date Printed:

Date Collected

Date Received:

ars Sex: Male Accession No:

Loo: Physician: 1
Copy to:

  

 

Surgical Portrait!!! depart

 

Specimen #3 is designated "internal mammary node“ and consists of one yellow tan adipose tissue measuring 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is bisected and submitted in cassette 3A.

Specimen #4 is designated "pericardiai lymph node and fat“ and consists of two yeiiow ten to gray tan adipose tissue
fragments measuring 1.5 and 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is interlaced with multiple white ten to gray tan
rubbery iirm lymph nodes measuring from 0.2 to 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. All lymph nodes and part of adipose tissue
is submitted in cassette 4A.

Specimen #5 is designated ”major fissure". The specimen is previously submitted for frozen section and consists of one
purple ten to gray tan soft tissue fragments measuring 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted for
permanent histological examination in cassette 5AF82.

Specimen #6 is designated “posterior intercostal node‘»' and consists of six gray tan to purple tan rubbery soft tissue
fragments measuring 0.3 cm to 2.1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassettes 6A and BB.

Specimen #7 is designated "lung implant“ and consists of one purple tan to grey tan rubbery soft tissue fragment
measuring 5.2 cm in greatest dimension. The cut surface of the specimen reveals multiple white ten to grey tan firm
noduies measuring from 0.2 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 is designated "level 7’“ and consists of multiple white ten to black tan rubbery soft tissue fragments
measuring from 0.4 cm to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 8A.

Specimen #9 is designated “level 9" and consists of one white ten to purpie tan rubbery soft tissue fragments measuring
3.5 cm in greatest dimensionThe entire specimen is submitted in cassette 9A.

Specimen #10 is designated "level 8" and consists of one black tan to yellow tan soft tissue fragment measuring 1.6 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 10A.

Specimen #11 is designated “level 10" and consists of two yellow tan adipose tissue measuring 0.5 cm and t.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is interiaced with gray ten to black tan rubbery lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 to 1.5
cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 11A.

Specimen #12 is designated "hilar node“ and consists of two biack tan rubbery soft tissue fragments measuring 0.8 and
1.? cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 12A.

Specimen #13 is designated "level 4" and consists of one yellow tan adipose tissue fragment measuring 3.0 cm in
greatest dimension, interlaced with multiple white tan to purple tan rubbery iymph node measuring from 0.3 to 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are submitted in cassette 13A.

Specimen #14. is designated ”level 2" and consists of one hemorrhagic soft tissue fragment measuring 3.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 14A and 148.

N31“. . Page 5 of 7
MRN

Date Printed:
Date Coliected :
Date Received:
years Sex: Male Accession N02.
Loo: Physician:

Copy to:

  

 

5111,1168] relaying! ”0190!!

 

Specimen #15 is designated “superior mammary node“ and consists at one yellow tan to gray tan rubbery soft tissue
fragment measuring 2.1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 15A.

Specimen #16 is designated "anterior hiiar node" and consists of one black tan rubbery soft tissue fragment measuring
0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette t6A.

Specimen #17 is designated "posterior hilar node” and consists of one gray tan soft tissue fragment measuring 0.6 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 17A.

Specimen #18 is designated “phrenic node" and consists of three yellow tan adipose tissue measuring from 0.5 to 1.9 cm
in greatest dimension. The specimen is interlaced with multiple gray tan to purple tan rubbery iymph node measuring from
0.1 to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node is submitted in cassette 18A.

Specimen #19 is designated “diaphragm" and consists of one gray tan to pink tan membranous tissue measuring 2.9 cm
in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 198. Part of the specimen is submitted for frozen section.
The remaining tissue of the frozen section is submitted for permanent histotogical examination in cassette 19AFS3.

Specimen #20 is designated "periesophageai LN" and consists of multiple yellow ten to purple tan rubbery soft tissue
fragments measuring item 0.9 to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 20A to 20C.

Specimen #21 is designated "periaortic node“ and consists of one yeiiow tan adipose tissue measuring 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 21A.

Specimen #22 is designated “additional diaphragm“ and consists of muitiple white tan to purple tan muscuiar
membranous tissue fragments measuring 6.0 x 5.0 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. The representative sections are submitted in
cassettes 22A to 220.

Specimen #23 is designated “pericardiai fat“ and consists of one yeliow tan lobulated adipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 2.5
x 1.2 cm. The specimen is interlaced with multiple smali iymph nodes measuring from less than 0.1 cm to 0.4 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassette 23A.

Specimen #24 is designated "phrenlc nerve" and consists of one gray tan to purple tan soft tissue fragment measuring
15.0 cm in iength. The specimen is interfaced with one white tan nerve tissue. The specimen is submitted entirely in one
cassette 24A.

Specimen #25 is designated ”azygos vein“ and consists of one blue tan to purple tan blood vessel fragment measuring
5.3 cm in iengtn and 0.5 cm in diameter. The outer surface of the vessel is smooth and glistening with minimal amount of
adipose tissue attached. Representative section is submitted in cassette 25A.

Specimen #26 is designated "pericardium tissue“ and consists of one gray ten to purple tan soft tissue fragment
measuring 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in cassette 26A.

Name: Page 6 of 7
MRN:

Date Printed:

Date Collected :

Date Received: 1
, Age: years Sex: Male Accession Noﬂ

Loo: Physician:

Copy to:

l' 53719163] Pal/It’ll!!! 178170]! I

Specimen #27 is designated "pericardium/diaphragm“ and consists of a cup shaped yellow tan soft tissue which contains
the thickened pleura from the diaphragmatic site,the mediasternal pericardial site and a portion of lateral parietal pleura.
There is no lung tissue identified within the specimen. only the thickened pleura is present. The pericardial site was
stitched and there is a pink tan membranous peridiai soft tissue present which measures 5.0 cm in greatest dimension.
The diaphragmatic pleura consistent of white to reddish muscle at the surgical margin. The stiched pericardial
membranous margin is inked blue, the mediasternai pleural fatty tissue margin is inked biue,the diaphragmatic pleura
margin is in black. The specimen is serially sectioned. The cut surface of soft tissue has diffuse infiltrated tumor nodules
measuring from 0.5 up to 4.0 cm in thickness. The tumor involves all the pleuras. Representative sections are submitted
as follows:

27A—27C3 Tumor with membranous inked pericardtal margin

27D~27E Tumor with inked mediastemal lat margin

27F—27H Tumor with inked diaphragmatic pleural margin

  

 

Specimen #28 is designated ”radical pteurectomy“ and consists of multiple gray ten to pink tan nodular pleural tissue
measuring 22.0 x 10.0 cm in aggregate. The thickness measures from 1.0 cm to 2.0 cm. The cut surface of the
specimen reveals multiple white tan to gray tan nodules measuring from 0.2 cm to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative section is submitted in cassette 28A to 280.

Case reviewed with attending pathologist.

Dictated by i and dictated by

Dictated by:

Pathologisﬂs)

PM) T53 dxdﬁw . ,
nicer 5W'W “‘mw'

31RN11
. ._ 7/1111}.
, ,,

Tumor Site

Prim

Case is
“PVl-ﬂhe’

 

Page 1 of 1

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05

 

 

 

 

 

 

Study Subject ID: Person ID: N/A
Study] Site: TCGA Mesothelioma - Age: NjA
Event: PathDiscrepancy Date of Birth:
Interviewer: Sex: M
Tumor Identifier Provided an Initial Case Provide the tumor identifier documented on the initial case quality

Quality Control Form control form for this case.

Pathologic Diagnosis Provided on Biphasic Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial pathology report
for this case. If the histology for this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.

Histologic features of the sample provided for Epithelioid Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality
TCGA, as reﬂected on the CQCF Control Form completed for this case.

Discrepancy bettveen Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form 1

Provide the reason for the discrepancy Submitted Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial

between the pathology report and the TCGA specimen is pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
Case Quality Control Form Epethelioid diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
Name of 755 Reviewing Pathologist or Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this

Biorepository Director case for TCGA.

