Ide-A'S

(Wart/norm“, Llaﬂelml N05
Slave/3

B4774 51h,» Bladder, [Maul—
" ' . , ﬂitﬂr/clr a»: e437?

Gender: Male WSW? 23W”; Ange/:4 (($11

Race: White

UUID:55962DC7-953C-49 - -
TCGA-FD-A 44 5555 5348EDE6A248

Pathology Report: mmuminiulnmniiiiiiiiiin “”3““
miumwuuumummuuummuliiiiiiiliiiili'"I"
mmmnmmuuummuuinuii:mmuuuummm

A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Fifteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/15).

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Twenty-ﬁve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/25).

C. Left ureter tip; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

D. Urinary bladder and prostate; cystoprostatectomy:

- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma with focal spindle cell
sarcomatoid differentiation (5%), invading thru the bladder wall and into the
perivesical fat, see pathologic parameters.

- Distal urethra margin, free of tumor.

- Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia and focal dense
chronic active inﬂammation.

E. Distal left ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

F. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma with focal sarcomatoid
differentiation (5%). h
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 5 cm, right lateral and anterior walls.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/40).
9. pTNM: pT3b,NO,MX.

Effective _ , his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xx

[1 MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD

Electronically Signed Out by U, MD

Clinical History:

Patient is an year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing
cystoprostatectomy, bilateral lymph node dissection and bilateral ureter
biopsies.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Left ureter tip

D: Bladder and prostate

E: Distal left ureter

F: Distal right ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in six containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#1 right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of yellow to tan
lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue that measures 7 x 5.5 x 1 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph nodes and is entirely submitted as follows:

Al-Z: One lymph node bisected

A3: Three lymph nodes

A4-6: Three lymph nodes each

A7: One lymph node bisected

A8—12: Remainder of specimen

B. The second container is additionally identified as, "#2 left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of yellow-tan
lobulated fibroadipose tissue that measures 7 x 6 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is

dissected for lymph nodes and is entirely submitted as follows:
Bl: One lymph node bisected
BZ: Three lymph nodes

B3: One lymph node bisected
B4: Two lymph nodes

B5: Three lymph nodes

B6: Two lymph nodes

B7: One lymph node bisected
BS: One lymph node

39: One lymph node

BIO-16: Remainder of specimen

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#3 left ureter tip".

Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented portion of ureter that
measures 0.6 x 0.5 cm. The external surface is white, dense, gray, smooth and
glistening and focally covered by yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen
is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette Cl.

D. Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 316.7 g, 17 x 8.5 x 4.2 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7.5 x 6 x 3.5 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 5.5 x 4.2 x 3.8 cm prostate with a 34 cm long by
0.6 cm diameter rubbery catheter in place in the urethra. Also received are 2
detached vessels both 6.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The bladder has a
4.5 x 3 .5 cm area of disruption on the lower anterior wall and the prostate has

a 2.5 x 2 cm area of disruption at the apex. The right seminal vesicles measure
3 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm and right vas deferens measures 8.5 cm in length by 0.6 cm in
diameter. The left seminal vesicles measures 3.5 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and left vas
deferens measures 8 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The right ureteral
stump measures 2.3 cm, the left measures 2 cm, the urethral stump measures 0.7
cm, and each demonstrates an intact, patent lumen.

The right half of the prostate is inked blue and the left half is inked black.

The outside of the bladder is inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened
anteriorly along the urethra. The outer surface of the prostate is tan and

shaggy. Sectioning demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri—urethral nodularity with
no discrete masses or indurations.

The opened bladder reveals a 5 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm ﬁrm, ulcerated, tan-brown mass
with a heaped up rim of ﬁrm tissue located in the upper anterior wall and upper
portion of right lateral wall. On cut section, the mass is ﬁrm and tan-white

with hemorrhagic foci and patches of necrosis centrally and extends into the
adipose tissue to a depth of 2.5 cm, to within 0.1 cm of the deep margin. The
surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled and tan with a uniform 0.2 cm wall
thickness. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent to the trigone, are identiﬁed

and probe patent. Photographs are taken.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

D1: Left ureter resection margin

D2: Right ureter resection margin

D3: Distal prostatic urethral margin

D4: Prostate apex

D5: Section ofright prostate through verumontanum
D6: Section of left prostate through verumontanum
D7-D8: Section of right prostate above verumontanum
D9-D10: Section of leﬁ prostate above verumontanum
D11: Seminal vesicles and vas differentia

D12: Mass closest to inked outer surface

D13: Mass at mucosal surface

D14: Mass and adjacent grossly normal bladder wall
D15: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome

D16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall

D17: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall at tri gone

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#5 distal left ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented portion of ureter and
attached ﬁbroconnective tissue the specimen measures 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The
portion of ureter is received previously opened with the mucosa exposed. The
specimen is bisected and entirely submitted cassette E1.

F. The sixth container is additionally labeled as "#6 distal right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a portion of ureter that measures 3.5 x
0.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is further oriented as stitch on non-margin side,
which is inked yellow. The external surface is pink to tan smooth and glistening
focally covered by yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen is entirely
submitted as follows:

F1: Margin

F2: Non—margin side

F3-5: Remainder of the specimen

XXX

[]

Flagnusi» Discrepancy

   

T‘TFT‘MV Tumor Sire Discrepancy

ihiPM Uiscrapanry
F 101 Malignancy History

AD'Iu

  
 
 
 

