- a
:295355E8-4220-4342-96E3 c4Aaessaan5
uum TCGA—GU-A766-91A-PR Redacted

I
”III
liil'liiii'lilliiiii'l'iilliiiil'ilii'lillii'liiumII

III III
|ll||l
IIH

 

 

ll
Results BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order
Patient Information
Patient Name MRN Sex DOB

Result Information

 

Status Provider Status
Final result M Reviewed
Entry Date

 

Component Results

Component Lab
Surgical Pathology

foZlo , :5 a Q
Oates/Mm}; uuy'ULrng-L' M [)3
ﬂat‘egii'aw a we W920 g
ed sort 3 I ‘ Q
ace, Mia/41a w 2% 7 a]

Accession #: m

FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS 54$: 1
\XgélIJLAI-A map 11. ()7 M

A. Right pelvic lymph node, dissection:
~Onel m h node. ne ative for tumor 0/1 , r
y p 9 ( ) zuyjtdf/Ag/Lé

B. Right distal ureter, resection:

- Fragment of ureter

- No dysplasia or carcinoma identified
- Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed

C. Left distal ureter margin. resection
- Fragment of ureter

- No dyspiasia or carcinoma identiﬁed
- Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed

D. Prostate. bladder. cystoprostatectomy:

an7vasive high grade urotheilal carcinoma inﬁltrating into muscularis propria
. cm)

- p‘l'2a, NOMX (see attached CAP template)

- Seven lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/7)

- Acute and chronic cystitis giant cell reaction consistent with previous

resection site

E. Left cbturator lymph nodes. dissection:
— Five lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/5)

F. Left pelvic lymph nodes. dissection:
- Two lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/2)

G. Right pelvic lymph node #2, dissection:
- One lymph node, negative for tumor {0/1)
~ Frozen section diagnosis confirmed

H. Right obturator lymph node, dissection:
a Three lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/3)

    

‘ .>_ ﬂyiguilrttlliE/J—“L:7 ’ " ’“ l
if #5

i ,m.

Specimen: Bladder
Other (specify): prostate and pelvic lymph nodes

Procedure: Radical cystectomy
Tumor Site: Bladder neck and prostatlc urethra

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.7 cm
Additional dimensions: 3.0 x 0.8 cm

Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed
Histologic Grade: High-grade

Tumor Conﬁguration: Flat
Ulcerated

Microscopic Tumor Extension: None identified
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymph~Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (pT): pT2a: Tumor invades superﬁcial muscularis
proprla (inner half)

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No lymph node metastasis
Specify number examined: 19
Number Involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: Cystitis cystica glandularis
Inﬂammation. degenerative changes

Ancillary Studies: Block 136 and D? can be used for additional studies if
needed.

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined In the CAP
ancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th
e ition.

mElectronically Si ned Out
_ "w

CLINICAL HISTORY
Bladder Cancer
Cystectomy and ureteroileal conduit

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

A: Right pelvic lymph node

8: Right distal ureter

C: Left distal ureteral margin
D: Urancus. prostate, bladder

Page 2 of 6

E: Left obturator lymph nodes
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes

G: Right pelvic lymph node #2
H: Right obturtor lymph nodes

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Specimen A is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and "right
pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. A single lymph node is identiﬁed measuring 0.8
cm in greatest dimension.

Section key:

A1 one lymph node bisected

A2 additional adipose tissue submitted for possible microscopic lymph node

Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name
and “right distal ureter" and consists of a segment of ureter measuring 0.8 cm

in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is completely submitted for frozen
section as Bl.

Specimen C Is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name
and "left distal ureter" and consists of a segment of ureter measuring 0.3 cm in
length x 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is completely submitted for frozen
section as Cl.

Specimen D:

Type of specimen: Urinary bladder. ureter stumps. prostate, seminal vesicles
The patients name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.

Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

leatlve: Received fresh. tissue is taken for research and later submitted In
formalin ’

Dimensions: Bladder SI 6.0 cm, right to left 5.5 cm. anterior to posterior 3.5
cm, right ureter stumps 4.5 x 0.4 cm. left ureter stumps 4.0 x 0.4 cm, prostate
base 2.0 cm, apex 4.5 cm, left to right 4.2 cm, anterior to posterior 3.3 cm
Description of ﬁndings:

Tumor: The mass is dark dusky red to gray-tan and is located in the bladder
neck. It extends radially to involve both ureter orifices. The mass measures
approximately 3.7 x 3.0 cm. Sectioning involves possible invasion into the
wall. however, no Invasion through the wall is identiﬁed. The surrounding
mucosa including the posterior wall is dusk. red and edematous. The mucosa at
the dome is ﬂattened and thin. Sectioning through the surrounding adipose
tissue reveals an elongated. fibrous area possibly representing urachus
measuring 7.5 cm in length x 0.7 cm In diameter. Multiple lymph nodes are also
identiﬁed ranging from 0.6 up to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The majority of
the lymph nodes are grossly positive.

Uninvolved mucosa: (polyps. ulceration. erythema)

Prostate: The prostate urethra is dark. red~gray and roughened with possible
involvement by the mass within the bladder. The prostate parenchyma is ﬁrm.
pale ten to white with a vaguely nodular appearance.

ink code: Posterior bladder=black. anterior bladder=green. right
prostate=orange, left prostate=blue. anterior prostate=green, posterior
prostate=black

Section key:

Di urethral margin

DZ and 03 one complete cross section extending from bladder neck to prostate
apex split

D4 longitudinal cross section of right ureter extending to bladder mucosa

05 longitudinal cross section of left ureter extending to bladder mucosa

06-09 representative sections of mass

 

Page 3 of 6

D10 section from posterior wall with edema

Dll uninvolved anterior wall

D12 dome

013 possible urachus

D14 apex right prostate

015-017 random sections proceeding from apex to base right prostate
D18 apex left prostate

019-021 random sections from apex to base left prostate

D22 distal sections of vas deferens with right vas deferens marked with ink
D23 representative section of largest grossly positive lymph node

024 one lymph node trisected

D25 two matted lymph nodes bisected

D26 one lymph node bisected

027 one lymph node bisected

028 two single lymph nodes

Specimen E is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left
obturator lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 6.0 x 3.8 x 2.5 cm. Four lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.3
up to 4.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Section key:

E1~E4 largest lymph node sectioned

Specimen F is received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and "left
pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow adipose tissue
measuring 4.5 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm. Two lymph nodes are identiﬁed measuring 2.0 cm
and 2.7 cm in greatest dimension.

Section key:

F1 and F2 larger lymph node bisected

F3 smaller lymph node bisected

Specimen G is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name
and "right pelvic lymph nodes #2"

and consists of an irregular fragment of pale tan and yellow fibrofatty soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is completely submitted for
frozen section as G1.

Specimen H is received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and "right
obturator lymph nodes" and consists of an aggregate of yellow ad lpose tissue
measuring 5.2 x 3.5 x 2.6 cm. Two lymph nodes are identiﬁed measuring 3.5 cm
and 2.0 cm. The smaller lymph node is fragmented. The lymph nodes are
completely submitted.

MlCROSCOPlC DESCRiPTION

The stain quality is acceptable.

The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.
lNTRAOPERATlVE CONSULT DlAGNOSlS

Time in: Time out:
B1-FS, Right distal ureter: "Negative for carcinoma"

Time in: Time out:
C1-FS, Left distal ureteral margin: “Negative for carcinoma“

Time in: Time out:
Gl-FS. Right pelvic lymph node #2: ”Negative for metastatic carcinoma"

2 m
i Page 4 of 6

