UUID:8A935075-BDCC-4DF4-5792- 212CBOE203FB
TCGA- ZY- A9H4- O1A- PR

l"l."'.'lil'ﬂl'iillll'li'ii'llli'l'. llllll'l'i'i" i'l'i"'e

Pathology Report

Final Diagnosis
GALLBLADDER CHOLECYSTEﬁTOMY:
Chronic cholecystilis
No evidence of malignancy.

B. LIVER NODULE N0. 1, LEFT LOSE, CORE NEEDLE BIOPSY:
Liver parenchyma with focal scar.
Na evidence of malignancy.

C. UVER NODULE N0. 2, LEFT LOSE, NEEDLE BIOPSY:
Liver parenchyma with focal scar.
Nu evidence of malignancy.

D. PORTAL LYMPH NODE:
One lymph node (011}, Err-3901‘ malignancy.

E. RIGHT LOBE LWER, PARTIAL RESECTION:
Hepatocellular wmoma. See Key Pathologic Findings.

KEY PATHOLOGICAL F lNDlNGS:
Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated
Tumor cmﬂguration: Circumscnbed
' Tumor size: 3.3 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm
Tumor necmsis: Not identiﬁed
Extent of invasinn: Carcinoma is conﬁned to within hepatic pamnchyma
Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Perineural 'nvasion: {slot identiﬁed
Parenchyma'l and surgical margins: Free of malignancyl
Additional ﬁndings: Focal sleatosis and portal triad chronic inflammation
Pathologic stage: pi"? NU MX

1,, than attenéing pathologist pets anally reviawed all
slides and f or natarials and renderad thg final diagnosis Electranitzally
Signed Dirt by

ED ~0— 3
Speeimenh) Received 0W WW
GALLELADDER
a LNER MODULE #1 LEFT LOBE F8 y/7b/3
C LIVER NODULE #2 LEFT LUBE F3 ' ‘
D PORTAL LYMPH moss 6:55» '. 02W 6 453 ~ D
E RIGHT LUBE ”YER

Qp 4/2 2/1‘4

Clinical History

HCC

Preoperative Diagnosis
HCC

Intraoperative Consultation
F881. WEE MODULE, NO. 1, LEFT LOBE:
Benign liver with focal scar.

FSC‘l. LIVER NODUtE, N0 2, LEFT LOSE;
Benign liver with focal scar.

Somment: This frozen section diagnosis/result was communicated to and acknowledged by
in person at

t, have performed the nitraoperative consultation {5) and issued ti» above
diagnosis.

Gross Description

A. The specimen is received fresh labeled “gallbladder" and consists of a 7.? x 2.8 x 2.5-cm
intact gallbladder. The serosa is smooth and glistening. The wall averages 6.2: cm in thickness- The
mucosa is velvety. No mass or other lesions are identiﬁed. The lumen contains a dark green viscous
bile. No stones are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

At: Cross section of cystic duct margin.
A2: Random sections of gallbladder.
B. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation labeled ”liver nodule No. 1, left

lobe,” and consists of a 0.1-cm in diameter elongated portion of tan tissue which is 1.2 cm in length.
The tissue is entirely frozen and submitted in F831.

C. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled “liver nodule No. 2', lelt
lobe,” and consists of a {Lt-cm in diameter elongated portion of tan tissue which is 1 .5 cm in length.
The tissue is entirely frozen and submitted ”at F801.

D- The specin on is received fresh labeled ”portal lymph nodes” and consists of a 1.9 x L15- x
9.9m fll'lTl tan lymph node with surrounding adipose tissue. The tissue is sectioned and entirely
submitted in at-

E. The specimen is received fresh labeled ”right lobe liver” and consists of a 7613—9, tT.§ x 15.0
x Ill-cm lobe of liver. The surgicat margin is inked black. The capsule is smooth and'withoul
adhesions. 3.3-cm from the closest surgical margin is a 3.3 x 2.5 X.1.5—t:m well-clrwmscribed soft tan
tabulated mass. The mass is 1.5 cm from the capsule. there is an additional soft discolored pale
area adjacent to the mass. The remaining parenciwma is homogeneous tan without additional

lesions. No frozen section is performed as per . A portion of the tissue is submitted to
Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

E1: Tissue adiacent to tissue submitted for tumor bank.

E2: Margin closest to mass, perpendicular.

E3~E43 Sections of mass.

E5: Mass with surrounding normal parenchyma.

E6: Separate pale lesion.

E7: Normal parenchyma.

 

Vet

 

 

W. A» rpm

 

Diagnosis Discrepancy

 

 

 

Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy

 

 

nIPM Discreplntv

 

 

 

Prior Maliznancv History’t
l ‘

   

 

\\\\\g

 

 

 

 

 

