”ma allo‘olgic Diagnosis:

A. Chest wall margin (FS), resection:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

B. Pleural margin (FS), resection:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

C. Right upper lobe bronchial margin (FS), resection:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

D. Lung, right upper lobe and right middle lobe, resection:
Invasive squamous cell carcinoma carcinoma.

Specimen: Lung, right upper lobe and right middle lobe
Procedure: Bilobectomy
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: Upper lobe and middle lobe
Specimen integrity: lntact
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 7.5 cm
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma
Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified (tumor abuts but does not perforate
visceral pleura)
Tumor Extension: Not identified (tumor abuts but does not perforate visceral
pleura)
Margins:
Bronchial: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal: Not applicable
Parietal pleural: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Chest wall: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable
If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: <1 mm
Specify margin: Parietal pleura
Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not definitively identified
Pathologic staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: None known
Primary tumor: pT3
Regional lymph nodes: pNO

Number examined: 26 (the lymph node count includes parts D, E, F, G, H, l
and J)
Number involved: 0

Distant metastasis: pMX

Additional pathologic findings: Emphysematous changes

E. Level II lymph node (FS), resection:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/1 ).
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

F. lnferior pulmonary lymph node, resection:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/1).

G. 4R lower paratracheal lymph node, resection: Three lymph nodes, negative
for metastatic malignancy (0/3).

H. 2R upper paratracheal lymph nodes, resection:
Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/7).

I. Subcarinal lymph node (FS), resection:
Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/6).
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

J. Peribronchial lymph node, resection: One lymph node, negative for
metastatic malignancy (0/1).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Chest wall margin:

Negative for malignancy.
FSB: Pleural margin:

Negative for malignancy.

F/S TAT: 18 mins.

FSC: Right upper lobe bronchial margin:
Negative for malignancy.
F/S TAT: 7 mins.

FSE: Level II lymph node:
Negative for malignancy.
F/S TAT: 12 mins.

FSl: Subcarinal lymph node:

FSl1: Three nodes:
Negative for malignancy.

FSl2: Two nodes:
Negative for malignancy.

FSI3: One node bisected:
Negative for malignancy.
F/S TAT: 26 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are ten containers labeled with patients name.

Part A received fresh for intraoperative examination, additionally labeled
"chest wall margin" and consists of a 1.0 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm yellow-tan, irregular
soft tissue with focal cautery on one side. The specimen is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis and is completely resubmitted in cassette A1.

Part B is received fresh for intraoperative examination and additionally labeled
"pleural margin" and consists of a 2.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm portion of pink-tan to
yellow-tan, gelatinous soft tissue. The specimen is submitted for frozen section
diagnosis and is completely resubmitted in cassette B1.

Part C is received fresh for intraoperative examination and additionally labeled
"right upper lobe bronchial margin" and consists of a pink-tan, cylindrical soft
tissue with a diameter of 1.4 cm, excised to a depth of 0.3 cm. The specimen is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis and is completely resubmitted in cassette
C1.

Part D is received in formalin additionally labeled "right upper and middle

lobe."

Specimen components and dimensions: The specimen consists of the right upper
and middle lobes. There is a portion of attached parietal pleura with

dimensions of 6.2 x 5.0 cm. This parietal pleura is located on the upper lobe.
The specimen has dimensions of 14.0 x 10.8 x 5.5 cm. The external surface of
the lung is purple-tan and wrinkled. The specimen has been previously inked in
black focally and incised. A portion of the specimen is sent to the

Tissue Bank and is also sent fresh for diagnostics. There are two staple lines.
These staple lines are removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked in black.
The external pleural surface is inked in black.

Size, appearance, and location of tumor: Within the right upper lobe, there is

a poorly circumscribed, white tan, irregular diffusely necrotic mass. The mass
has dimensions of 6.5 x 4.8 x 7.5 cm. The tumor does appear to extend into the
right middle lobe.

Distance to bronchial margin: 0.5 cm. The mass does not appear to grossly
invade the bronchus. The mass appears to extend to the cauterized soft tissue
edge in the hilum.

Distance to pleural surface: The mass appears to abut the pleural surface.

The mass appears to grossly abut the attached parietal pleura.

Number & appearance of peribronchial lymph nodes: There are hilar lymph nodes

identified, ranging in size from 0.6 to 1.6 cm. A" of these are white-tan and
appear anthracotic.
Other findings: There are no other gross pathologic findings identified.
Uninvolved lung: The remaining lung is red-tan and spongy.
Blocks submitted:

D1 right middle lobe bronchial margin and vascular margins;

D2 mass to pleura;

D3 mass to bronchus;

D4 mass to parietal pleura;

D5 mass to inked hilar soft tissue edge;

D6 additional representative section of mass;

D7 uninvolved right upper lobe;

D8 uninvolved right middle lobe;

D9 one lymph node, bisected;

D10 one lymph node, bisected;

D11-12 multiple whole lymph nodes.

Part E is received fresh for intraoperative examination additionally labeled
"level II lymph node" and consists of two gray-tan, lobular lymph nodes, 0.9 and
1.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted for frozen section
diagnosis and is completely resubmitted in cassette E1.

Part F is received in formalin additionally labeled "inferior pulmonary lymph
node" and consists of a single pink-tan rubbery lymph node, 0.6 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette F1.

Part G is received in formalin additionally labeled "4R lower paratracheal lymph
node" and consists of a 3.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm portion of yellow-tan, irregular

fatty tissue. Sectioning the specimen reveals multiple pink-tan, rubbery lymph
nodes, ranging from 0.4 to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension.

The specimen is submitted as follows:
G1 one lymph node, bisected;
G2 one lymph node, bisected;
G3 one lymph node, bisected;
G4 multiple whole lymph nodes.

Part H is received in formalin additionally labeled "2R upper paratracheal lymph
node" and consists of a 5.2 x 2.6 x 1.2 cm portion of pink-tan, lobular fatty
tissue. Sectioning the specimen reveals multiple pink-tan, rubbery lymph nodes,
ranging from 0.5 to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension.

The specimen is submitted as follows:
H1 one lymph node, bisected;
H2 one lymph node, bisected;
H3 one lymph node, bisected;

H4 one lymph node, bisected;
H5 multiple whole lymph nodes.

Part | is received fresh for intraoperative examination additionally labeled
"subcarinal lymph node" and consists of six pink-tan, rubbery lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.5 to 1.4 cm.

The specimen is submitted for frozen section diagnosis and is completely
resubmitted as follows:

l1 three whole lymph nodes;

l2 two whole lymph nodes;

l3 one lymph node, bisected.

Part J is received in formalin additionally labeled "peribronchial lymph node"
and consists of a single red-tan, irregular possible lymph node, 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8
cm.

The specimen is submitted as follows:
J1 entire specimen, trisected.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

 

