 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEMS) RECEIVED

Lung: LEFT UPPER LOBE - QUICK SECTION
Lymph node: INF PULM ligament
Lymph node: Right TB angle
Lymph node: Interloba
Lymph node: Interloba STllR no.2-
Lymph node: Lobar STlER/QS

, Lymph node: Right TB angle

8. LUNGS: Right upper lobe/Q3

9. LUNGS: Wedge right upper lobe

10. Lymph node: Interlobar STllL

11. Bone: 5th rib

12. LUNGS: Left upper lobe

   
 

I m e w m H

DIAGNOSIS
1. Left upper lobe of lung wedge resection:
— Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma, 1.4 cm in greatest diameter.

— stapled resection margins negative for tumor.

2. Inferior pulmonary ligament STBR lymph node:
— Negative for malignancy, lymph node.

3. — 7. Right TB angle STIOR. interlobar STllR, interlobar STllR no.2,
lobar ST12R, right TB angle STlOR:
- Negative for malignancy, lymph node. (x5)

8. Right upper lobe lobectomy:‘
- Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma, 1.1 cm in greatest diameter.

» Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor.
— one peribronchial lymph node negative for malignancy.

9. Right upper lobe wedge resection:
Negative for malignancy. '
- Normal lung.

Status: complete Page:

1 of

6

 

 

 

10. Interlobar ‘STllL:
- Negative for malignancy, lymph node.

11. Bone 5th rib:
— Consistent with normal rib bone. (GROSS DIAGNQSIS ONLY)

12. Left upper lobe lobectomy:

— No residual malignancy.

- Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor.

— Four peribronchial lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

,MMENT
It is interesting that the two tumors demonstrate similar histological
appearances, yet they are almost certain to represent separate TlNo

primaries.

 

CLINICAL HISTORY
LUNG CA

GROSS DESCRIPTION
1. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as “left
upper lobe q.s.", contains two pieces of lung tissue consisting of a
wedge of lung and second smaller piece of tissue received fresh. The
wedge of lung measuring 6.0 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm and the second piece of lung
tissue measures 4.5 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm and this has staples. 'The second
piece of tissue is taken from over to tumor (to allow access of surgeon
for culture). The wedge of lung tissue has two stapled resection margins
measuring 3.5 cm and 4.5 cm and an area of exposed lung parenchyma
measuring 4.0 x 4.0 cm. This area is marked with India ink. On gross
examination there is a grayish—white tumor measuring 1.4 x 1.3 x 0.9 cm.
The tumor is well-circumscribed and is located immediately below the
exposed lung parenchyma. A representative section of the tumor is
examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section. The rest of
the lung parenchyma appears to be grossly unremarkable. Please that the
rked area in India ink is not the true margin. Representative sections

I are submitted as follows:

Status: complete Page: 2 of 6

 

 

 

 

1A frozen section resubmitted
1B shave resection margin (shorter stapled resection margin)
1C shave resection margin (longer stage resection margin)
1D~1F representative section of the tumor in relation to the exposed
lung parenchyma with ink margin,
pleura and adjacent lung parenchyma
16 representative section of the lung parenchyma
in -lI smaller piece of lung tissue-serially sectioned and submitted in
toto.

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as

nferior pulmonary ligament ST9 q.s.", contains three pieces of carbon
laden tissue received fresh. The tissue measures from 0.6 to 1.3 cm in
greatest dimension. This I=is examined at intraoperative consultation by
frozen section on the entire specimen.
2A ~23 frozen section resubmitted (block 2A the largest piece of tissue
bisected).

3. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘ 5 name and as "right
TB angle STlOR q.s.", contains a piece of carbon laden lymph node
measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm received fresh. This is examined at
intraoperative consultation by frozen section on the entire specimen.

3A frozen section resubmitted (tissue bisected)

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as
"interlobar STllR q.s.", contains four fragments of anthracotic tissue
ranging in size from 0.4 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension received fresh.
This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section on the
entire specimen.

4A frozen section resubmitted.

5. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 3 name and as
"interlobar STllR number 2 q.s.", contains a piece of anthracotic tissue
measuring 2.0 x 1.3 x 0.7 cm received fresh. The specimen is bisected
and is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section on the
entire specimen.

5A frozen section resubmitted.

’. The specimen container labeled with the-patient' s name and as "lobar
:12R q.s", contains a piece of anthraCOtic tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x
0.2 cm received fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation

Status: complete Page: 3 of 6

 

 

 

 

by frozen section on
the entire specimen.
6A frozen section resubmitted .

7. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘ s name and as "right
TB angle STlOR q.s.", contains a piece of tissue measuring 1.7 x 0.6 x
0.3 cm recaived fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by
frozen section on the entire Specimen.

7A. frozen section resubmitted .

8. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as "right

, per lobe q.s.", contains a lobectomy specimen received in 10% buffered
formalin. The specimen measures 20.0 x 13.5 x 5.5 cm in its formalin
inflated state. On gross examination the pleura appears smooth, shiny

and intact. On sectioning there is a well—circumscribed blackish-tan
tumor measuring 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm. The tumor is approximately 2.0 cm
away from the bronchial resection margin. A representative section from
the tumor is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen Section.

No other nodules are identified grossly. The rest of the lung parenchyma

appears to be slightly emphysematous. One lobar lymph node is identified

grossly measuring 0.6 x 0.6 cm. The rest of the lung parenchyma appears
to be slightly emphysematous. Representative sections are submitted as

follows:

an frozen section resubmitted

8B bronchial resection margin

8C vascular resection margin

8D—8F the rest of the tumor serially sectioned and submitted in toto
BG—SH representative section of the lung parenchyma

BI one lobar lymph node

9. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as "wedge
.right upper lobe", contains a wedge of lung tissue received in 10%
buffered formalin. The tissue measures 6.2 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm. Two stapled
resection margin is identified measuring 3.9 and 6.0 cm long. On gross
examination the pleura is smooth, shiny and intact. 0n sectioning no
nodule is identified grossly. The lung parenchyma is slightly
emphysematous. The specimen is submitted in toto after stapled margins
are removed as follows:

“a shave resection margin (shorter staple resection margin)
‘ shave resection margin (longer staple resection margin)

9C—9G the rest of the lung parenchyma serially sectioned and submitted

Status: complete Page: 4 of 6

 

 

 

 

in toto.

10. The Specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as
"interlobar ST11L", contains a single piece of blackishutan tissue
received in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue measures 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.3
cm.

10 specimen Submitted in toto.

11 The specimen container labeled with the patient‘ s name and as "5th
rib", contains a piece of bone with soft attached received in 10%
buffered formalin. The bone measures 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. No gross

normality is noted. No tissue is submitted for histologic examination.

Gross Diagnosis: Bone 5th rib.

12 The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as "left
upper lobe". contains a lobe of lung received in 10% buffered formalin.
The tissue meaSures 9.0 x 6.3 x 3.0 cm. One stapled resection margin is
identified measuring 8.5 cm long and one sutured resection margin is
identified measuring 4.0 cm long. 0n gross examination the pleura
appears to be smooth, tiny and intact. 0n sectioning, the lung
parenchyma is slightly emphysematous. No nodule is identified grossly.
Multiple lobar lymph nodes are identified grossly ranging in size from
0.3 x 0.3 to 0.4 x 0.4 cm. Two pieces of lung tissue are taken for snap
frozen. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

12A bronchial resection margin

128 shave resection margin from stapled margin

12C shave resection margin from the stitch resection margin

12D ~2G representative section of the lung parenchyma

12H four lobar lymph nodes.

QUICK SECTION
1A "Non—small cell carcinoma, favor squamous cell carcinoma"
2A—2B "Negative for malignancy".
3A "Negative for malignancy“.
4A "Negative for malignancy".
5A “Negative for malignancy".
‘a,7A "Negative for malignancy".
. "Non small cell carcinoma favor squamous cell carcinoma".

Status: complete

Page: 5 of

6

 

 

 

Page: 6 of 6

Status: complete

 

