 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - B.) RIGHT RENAL MASS AND BASE OF TUMOR, PARTIAL NEPHRECTOMY:
- PAPILLARY RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, TYPE 2.
- Fuhrman nuclear grade 2.
- Size: 1.6 cm.
- Confined to the kidney.

- Negative for extracapsular invasion into fat.
- Negative for lymphovascular invasion.

- BASE (margin) 0F TUMOR NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.

 

 

 

 

 

Procedure: Partial nephrectomy.

Specimen type: Renal mass and base oftumor.
Specimen laterality: Right.

Tumor Features:

Tumor size: 1.6 cm.
Tumor focality: Single focus.
Histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, type 2.
Histologic grade (Fuhrman nuclear grade): 2, moderately differentiated.
Sarcomatoid features: Not present.
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Conﬁned to the renal cortex.
Microscopic tumor extension: Conﬁned to the renal cortex.
Lymph Nodes: Not evaluated.
Margin: Base of tumor negative. Tumor clear of inked

base of the initial excision by at least 2 mm.
Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:

Primary tumor (pT): pT1 a.

Regional Lymph nodes (pN): pNX.

Distant metastasis (pM): pMX.

Margin status (R): R0.

Pathologic stage: I.
Pathologic ﬁndings in non-neoplastic kidney: None.
Additional pathologic ﬁndings: None.
Comment:

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Mass;Right renal

B. Renal cell base of tumor

lntraogerative Diagnosis:

B. FSB: Kidney. right. base of tumor, biopsy: Benign kidney tissue, no tumor present

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross DescriQtion:

A. Part A designated right renal mass. Initially received in a fresh state for frozen section analysis are three
portions of soft tissue, including two pieces of perinephric fat and a excision of kidney. The portion of
kidney is a corked—out wedge oftissue weighing 3 grams and 2.1 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm. The apparent deep
surgical margins are now marked blue, and the superﬁcial surface is marked yellow. The specimen is
serially sectioned to reveal a well circumscribed, softened hemorrhagic tumor mass measuring up to 1.6

cm in greatest dimension. Due to the softened hemorrhagic state of the lesion the relationship with the
surrounding thin border of renal parenchyma is difﬁcult to discern, however the lesion demonstrates a

capsular appearance. A discrete representative portion is retrieved centrally from the lesion and submitted
for Oncogenotyping studies. The kidney bi0psy is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation. The two
portions of accompanying fat are examined, and both pieces demonstrate an area of indentation,
possibly corresponding to the fat formerly overlying the mass, and the fat demonstrates a thickness range
of 1.5 - 2.3 cm to the radial surface. Sectioning through the fat demonstrates glistening yellow-tan lobular

surface without gross evidence of an invasive component. Representative sections are submitted for
microscopic evaluation.

ions summary: A1—A4) kidney biopsy, sequentially submitted, A5-A7) fat overlying lesion represented.

B. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "renal cell base of tumor' and consists of a tan
portion of tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
analysis in F85. The tissue is submitted for permanent sections in cassette Bf -

 

Microscogic Description:

A. - B.) Sections of the initial mass excision show a well-encapsulated neoplasm with a complete ﬁbrous
capsule. The tumor has a papillary and tubular architecture and the cells range from small to intermediate
with round to oval nuclei and small central nucleoli not visualized at 10x (Fuhrman nuclear grade 2).

There is abundant acidophilic cytoplasm throughout the majority of the tumor consistent with the type 2
subtype of papillary RCC. Characteristic foamy macrophages are present. The tumor is conﬁned within the
renal cortex without invasion through the capsule or invasion into the attached adipose tissue. The inked
base of the tumor and the separate specimen designated base of tumor consists of benign renal
parenchyma without tumor involvement.

lmmunohistochemistry performed shows the tumor is strongly positive for cytokeratin 7 and \fimentin. CD10
is positive in approximately 30-40% of the tumor. There is only focal and weak positivity with RCC
immunohistochemistry. Ber-EP4 and C-Kit are considered negative.

 

