UUID:137BC5C3-CA98-4BDT-3810-1620291kc4eﬂsac
TCGA- DH-A7US-01A-PR

Ill l|Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂlllllllllll

Case Type:

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED / PROCEDURES ORDERED
A. Brain tumor A. Frozen Section Charge
B. Brain tumor B. Glial Fibrill. Acid Prt
B. Kl—67, Nuclear Antigen, Mibl B. P53 Protein
B. Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 B. 1P19q Malignant Glioma Anaysis
B. 1P19q Malignant Glioma Analysis, add x 3
CLINICAL HISTORY: A , old male who presents for right crani for
tumor. Right frontal temporal insular lesion
DIAGNOSIS:
A. "Brain tumor", frontotemporal lobe, craniotomy:
Oligodendroglioma, WHO Grade II (see comment)
B. "Brain tumor", frontotemporal lobe, craniotomy:
Oligodendroglioma, WHO Grade II (see comment)
COMMENT: Sections show an inﬁltrating tumor with predominantly
monomorphic ovoid nuclei with perinuclear halos and "chicken wire"
vasculature. No necrosis or microvascular proliferation is seen in this
material. Mitoses are not identified in the sections examined and the
Ki-67 (MlB-l) proliferation index is variable ranging from 1-7%

approximately. lmmnunohistochemical study for GFAP shows positive

iilllillnllllmll“llllllllllllll”m”I“l““lllllllmm“l"“m'lmll @d £3114“ A qubf

(Quail—aw My?“

(140 15/4/13

reactivity in tumor cell processes. Tumor cells are strongly and
diffusely positive for IDH1. P53 is negative in the majority of tumor
cells. The histologic and immunohistochemical findings of this tumor
support the diagnosis.
A 1p/19q chromosomal status analysis will be performed and results
reported in an addendum.
GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimens in the
labeled with the patient‘s name and hospital #

A. Brain tumor

B. Brain tumor
A. The specimen is received fresh, designated "Brain tumor" and
consists of a 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of beige to pink-tan soft
tissue pieces. A representative portion is submitted for frozen section.
Frozen section diagnosis is "Infiltrating glioma, defer grade to
permanent sections". The frozen tissue is submitted in
cassette FSA1 and remaining tissue is submitted in cassettes A2 and A3.
B. The specimen is received fresh, designated "Brain tumor" and
consists of a 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of beige to gray-tan soft
tissue with focal areas of hemorrhage. A representative portion is
submitted to the ' and remaining tissue is submitted in
cassettes 81-83.
"I, or my qualified designee, performed the gross examination. I have
personally reviewed the gross description and performed a microscopic
examination on all referenced material. I have personally issued this

report on the basis of the gross and microscopic findings."

Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance
characteristics determined by Some tests

have not been cleared or approved by the U5. Food and Drug
Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes and should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed

under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as

qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Pathologist

PI .marv Tumor
HIPM

can il

Reviewed:

 

 

