Results

Result Information
§latus (Last updated Date/Time)

Accession #

Result Impression

 

 

UUID:82349CD5- 39AA-42F8-86A1- BABBBBRBOeDBSa “ IC" ”.0 ,.
TCGA- UB- A7MA- BlA- PR 3

ted i
“Hilllili'lllli'liiﬁ!iiiliillii!ill'6“ W
" ‘ Sit: '

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 62.21::

Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:

Sex: Female
Soc. Sec. #:
Accession #:
Visit #:
Service D
Received:
Location:
Client:

  
 
 
 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Bile duct margin, biopsy: No tumor.

B. Liver, left lobe, partial hepatectomy: Mixed
hepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma, extending to margin and invading
large vessels; see comment.

C. Hepatic artery lymph node, excision: No carcinoma in one lymph node
(0/1)-

D. Anterior common hepatic artery lymph node, excision: No carcinoma
in one lymph node (0/1).

E. Portacaval lymph node, excision: No carcinoma in one lymph node
(O/l).

COMMENT:
Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment

— Tumor type: Mixed hepatocellular/choiangiocarcinoma.

— Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

- Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion): 12.1 cm.
Tumor necrosis: (30%.

l

H

- Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver
parenchyma): Present.
— Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: >12 cm.
— Vascular invasion: Present in both large and small vessels (B2, B3,
B8).
- Hepatic capsule: Tumor abuts capsule.
— Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver.
— Hepatic surgical margins: Positive (slide 83); see comment.
- Bile duct margin (for cholangiocarcinoma): Negative.
— Non—neoplastic liver: No significant pathologic abnormality.
- Lymph node status: Negative. .
— Negative: total number of nodes examined: 3.
— AJCC Stage: pT3bNO.

Immunoperoxidase and special stains were performed to confirm the
diagnosis and show the following staining pattern in tumor cells:

- Chromogranin: Negative.

— Synaptophysin: Negative.

- Arginase: Patchy positive, negative in some areas showing glandular
differentiation.

— CK19: Strong and diffusely positive.

— Mucicarmine: Negative.

— MIBl: Briskly positive, with nuclear staining up to 40-50% of cells.

Overall, the histopathology and immunohistochemical profile support a
diagnosis of mixed hepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma. Histologic
sections show divergent differentiation with some larger cells showing
eosinophilic cytoplasm or fatty differentiation. These cells are
arranged in a trabecular architecture. Both the morphology as well as
strong positive staining for arginase supports hepatoid differentiation
in these areas. In other areas, discrete glands within scleroric stroma
are seen. Luminal necrosis is seen within glands. A subset of these
areas of glandular differerentiation lack arginase staining. This
finding, along with the presence of necrosis provide evidence for a
component of cholangiocarcinoma. Of note, a mucicarmine stain is
negative, indicating a lack of mucin; however, this does not preclude a
diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma. MIBl staining shows a proliferative
index of up to 40—50%, suggesting a highly proliferative malignancy.
Negative staining for synaptophysin and chromogranin argues against
neuroendocrine differentiation.

Sections at the periphery of the main mass show multiple smaller
nodules, some of which are only apparent microscopically. One of these
small nodules is found at the margin (slide B3). It is possible that
this nodule may represent venous invasion. '

have reviewed portions of this case
and concur with the diagnosis.

Specimen(s) Received

AzBile duct left (ink marks distal margin) FS
B:Left lobe liver

‘C:Hepatic artery lymph node

Dzhnterior common hepatic artery lymph node
E:Portacaval lymph node

Intraoperative Diagnosis

FSl (A) Bile duct, left, biopsy: Benign bile duct, almost entirely
denuded. Dr. agrees.

Clinical History

The patient is a -year-old woman with a left-sided liver mass.
According to she presented with left upper quadrant in
and a CT at that time revealed a left—sided liver mass and no risk

factors for hepatocellular carcinoma. A core biopsy revealed
hepatocellular carcinoma with focal glandular differentiation

CKl9—positive, AFB-negative, arginase-positive). She is additionally
noted to have a history of splenectomy for hereditary spherocytosis and
is status post cholecystectomy in for cholecystitis, which work~up

revealed papillary stenosis with a narrowing of the common bile duct.

Gross Description -
The case is received in five parts, labeled with the patient’s name and
medical record number.

Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "2 bile duct left ink
marks distal margin frozen," and consists of a single fragment of
red-tan soft tissue (0.7 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm) marked by a circle of black ink
on the one end. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1.

Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "left lobe liver
orientation P," and consists of a partial hepatectomy (739.5 gm fixed:
14.5 cm from right to left x 16.5 cm from anterior to posterior x 8.3 cm
from superior to inferior) without attached gallbladder. The specimen
is previously disrupted at the capsule with a section taken by the
surgeon for banking prior to receipt in Pathology.

GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a white—tan, firm, multinodular
well-circumscribed mass (12.1 cm from right to left x 8 cm from superior
to inferior x 14 cm from anterior to posterior) that extends to the
capsule, which is distorted and contracted by the mass. The mass is
noted 0.5 cm from the resection margin (slice 6). There is no grossly
evident necrosis within the mass. Additionally, scattered smaller
white-tan nodules are seen adjacent to, but apparently distinct from the
mass. The liver parenchyma is otherwise red-brown, firm, and
unremarkable. No gallbladder is present. No lymph nodes are
identified.

ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks; hepatic ligament.

INKING:

— Liver capsule overlying mass: Inferior in blue and superior in green.
— Resection margin: Black.

POTENTIAL STUDIES; Normal and tumor are taken for tissue banking.

CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted:

Bl—BZ: Mass, approach to margin, and vessels, slice 6.
B3: Mass, approach to margin, and vessels, slice 7.

B4—B9: Representative sections of mass, including mass
adjacent to capsule.
BlO: Uninvolved liver.
Part C is received fresh and additionally labeled "hepatic artery
lymph node," and consists of a single, curved/irregular, soft, rubbery
red—tan lymph node (2.5 x l x 0.7 cm). The specimen is bisected and

-: V _

- X

entirely submitted in cassettes Cl—C2.

Part D is received fresh and additionally labeled "anterior common
hepatic artery lymph node," and consists of a single, roughly ovoid,
soft, rubbery pink—tan lymph node (2.8 x 1.2 X 0.6 cm). The specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted in cassettes D1—D2.

Part E is received fresh and additionally labeled "porta caval lymph
node," and consists of a single, irregular, soft, rubbery pink—tan lymph
node (2.8 x 1.6 x 1 cm). The specimen is trisected and entirely
submitted in cassettes C1—C3. ,

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis
made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides.
The attending pathologist has_reviewed all dictations and preliminary
interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and
performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

Electronically signed out

Pathology PDF Report
Show images for Surgical Pathology

Authorizing ‘

 

Name:

Phone:
w, ,7 7, d

 

Signed W Dale/Time Phone Pager

Result History

 

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink’below.
Surgical Pathology (Order

 

 

 

 

Authorizing:
Pathology and Cytology
Department:
_i @3993 __
Show images for Surgical Pathology
Order Information
Order Date/Time Release Dale/Time Start Date/Time End Date/Time
Release Information
Released On Released By

Order Details

——

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
Once 1 occurrence Routine Normal

Lab Collection and Receipt Information
Collect Date Collect Time Collected By Lab Receipt Date Lab Receipt Time

Collection Information
Resultino Aoencv

Order Provider info

 

 

Office
phone Pacer/beeper E-mail
Ordering User .-
Authorizing Provider -—
Billing Provider --
Electronically Signed B;
Electronically Authorized By Electronically Ordered By

Order Status for: SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY
Parent Status: Completed

Child Orders

Order Requisition

 

 

-

Results Surgical Pathology

Result Information
Status (Last updated Date/Time)

Accession #

 

Result impression

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

  
 
  
  

Patient Name-
Med. Rec -

DOB:
Sex: Female
Soc. Sec. #:
Accession #:
Visit #2

Location:

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Histochemical staining for iron and interpretation on
Background liver with 2+ positive staining (O-4+).

COMMENT:
A histochemical stain for iron was performed on block BlO of
This shows 2+ staining of hepatocytes and kupfer cells (scale 0—4+).

Gross Description
block B10 is selected for histochemical staining.

Clinical History

The patient is a -year—old woman with mixed
hepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma and a history of hereditary
spherocytosis. An iron stain was requested by

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis
made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides.
The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary
interpretations performed by any residen: involved in the case and

-: - .

performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

Pathology PDF Report
Show images for Surgical Pathology

Authorizingfrovider Information ,, 7

 

Name:

Phone:
Signed by

 

Signed , ’ Phone Pager
Result History

Reviewed by List

 

 

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below.
Surgical Pathology (Order

Pathology arid Cytology ‘
Department; By:

 

Show images for Surgical Pathology

Order Information

 

Order Date/Time Release Date/Time Start Date/Time End Date/Time

Release Information

 

Released On Released By

Order Details

 

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
Once 1 occurrence Routine Normal

Lab Collection and Receipt information
Collect Date Collect Time Collected By Lab Receipt Date Lab Receipt Time

Collection Information

 

Resulting Agency

Order Provider info

 

- .

 

Office
E-maii
Ordering User --
Authorizing Provider --
Billing Provider __
Electronically Signed By:
Electronically Authorized By Electronically Ordered By

Order Status for: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Parent Status: Completed

 

Child Orders
(This order does not yet have any children)

Order Requisition

 

 

