 

SPECIMEN

A. Right middle lobe wedge
B. Right upper lobe

C. 2R fat pad

D. 4R

E.

Right lower lobe wedge resection

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A) Lung, e, wedge biopsy - 2 pleural fibrotic

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "right middle

lobe wedge" is a wedge biopsy that measures 4.5 x 1.5 x 0.8
cm in dimension. The specimen has staples present. The staples are
removed and the specimen in the area of the staples is inked in
black. The pleural surface is inked in blue. Section through the
specimen shows a single-surfaced nodular lesion that measures 0.8 x
0.5 x 0.5 cm in dimension. Half of the nodular lesion along with
the adjacent lung parenchyma is frozen. One similar, slightly
smaller nodule is also identified. This is frozen as FSA—2. The
tissue irely submitted for permanent section in six cassettes.
RS—6.

Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right

upper lobe" is a 182-gram, 16.2 x 10.2 x 4.0 cm. lobectomy
specimen with an attached 1.0 cm. in length, 2.0 x 0.6 cm. in
diameter bronchial stump. The pleura is focally retracted tan-pink.
Subjacent to the aforementioned area of pleural retraction is a
moderately well-circumscribed 3.0 x 2.5 x 2.1 cm. rubbery pale tan
to gray-black tumor mass. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The
tumor extends to within less than 0.1 cm. of the inked pleural
surface. The remaining parenchyma is unremarkable, spongiform
tan-pink to mildly congested tan-red. No additional mass lesion or
abnormality is identified grossly. Representative sections are
submitted in eight blocks as labeled. RS-8

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — bronchial stump margin; 2 — vascular margins;
3-6 - tumor to inked ple e; 7 and 8 — random from
remainder of specimen.

C. Received fresh labeled "2R fat pad" is a 0.4 cm in

greatest dimension rubbery gray-black tissue in keeping
with lymph node with a moderate amount of associated adi e ssue.
The specimen is entirely submitted in one block. AS-1.

D. Received fresh labeled "4R" is a diffusely zed

0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm tan-red tiss ment which is
submitted in toto in one block. AS-1.

E. Received fresh labeled "ri r lobe wedge

resection" is a 1.7 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm tan—pink fragment of
tissue with a staple line along one aspect. The staple line is
removed and the surface is inked blue. There is a calcified 0.8 cm

white—gray nodule which comprises the remainder of the specimen.
The tissue is bisected and en ubmitted following fixation and
light decalcification. AS-1

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): pT1b (carcinoma 3.0 cm. in greatest dimension,
without bronchial or visceral pleural involvement).
margins of resection: Negative.
Direct extension of tumor: Negative.
Venous/arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): None definitively identified.
Other findings: Emphysematous changes; intraalveolar hemorrhage;
calcified nodules.

5, 4x2, 3x2, 14, 15, 16

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lung, right middle lobe, wedge resection:
Two fibrotic pleural-based nodules.
No malignancy identified.

B. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:
Adenocarcinoma, moderately to poorly-differentiated, 3.0 cm. in
greatest dimension.
Carcinoma approaches, but does not directly involve, the
visceral pleura, and does not involve the bronchus.
Angiolymphatic invasion not identified.
Negative margins of resection.

C. Soft tissue, "2R fat pad," biopsy:
Benign fibroadipose tissue with focal lymphoid aggregate (no
definitive lymph nodes identified).
No malignancy identified.

D. Submitted as "4R":
Benign fibrous tissue.
No lymph nodes identified.

E. Lung, right lower lobe, wedge resection:
Calcified fibrotic nodule.
No malignancy identified.

 

——— End Of Report ---

