CGA—DU—8166

  
  

 

 
 
 
   
 

Surgical Pathology Report
Patient Name : — Accession # : -
DOB: Gender: F
Client: Locati
Received:
— ReportEd:

 

Med: Rec.' Phone Number:
Taken:

CLINICAL HISTORY

_oman experienced recent onset seizures, and had
a e

frontal biopsy diagnosed as anaplastic astrocytoma. On imaging, there
is a
large ill—defined, diffusely infiltrating frontal lesion that involves.

the
body of the corpus callosum and has faint blush with gadolinium.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Left frontal brain tumor

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain, left frontal mass, biopsy
B: Brain,contrast enhancing nodule, biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:
A, B. Brain, left frontal, excisional biopsies: Mixed

oligoastrocytoma.
See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The sections contain portions of mostly white matter that is slightly
(Al) to

moderately infiltrated (Bl) by a glial neoplastic proliferation. The
neoplastic nuclei have mixed oligodendroglial and astrocytic features.
There

is one mitotic figure in all the sections examined. There is not
microvascular cellular proliferation or necrosis.

more
cellular tumor, which has proclivity for the cerebral cortex and

prominent
microcystic changes; in a couple of sections there is

 

cellular solid neoplasm.

The findings are interpreted as those of a diffusely infiltrating
mixed

oligoastrocytoma (WHO II}. On this material there are no anaplastic
features;

increased cellularity and mitoses, although rare, may portend
heightened

biological potential.

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
Loss of Heteroz osit 1p, 19q Assay (LOH)
Date Ordered : a Date Reported: -

Interpretation
NEGATIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm 19q is

NOT
detected.

Informative loci are: DlSlSQZ, D181612, D198412, PLA2G4C

Results~Comments

Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block DNA
extracted from a corresponding blood specimen was used as a normal
reference control.

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA

(baseline}/ Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and l9q. The 3
markers

on lp are D1854B, D151592, and DlSSSZ {with D18468, D181612, and
D18496 as

backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19q are D193219, D193412, and
PLA2G4C

(with D198606 and D1931182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites
(2 or 4

nt repeats) except PLAZG4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)
polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used
if the

first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or
otherwise

ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each
chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas
with 1p

and 19q deletion.

 

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand—alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance
characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA ' 88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved

for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non—neoplastic cells in

the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.

MGMT Promoter Meth lation
Date Ordered: * Date Reported: _

Interpretation

NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT

promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.

Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA

followed
by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and

unmethylated DNA
sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by

serial .
dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and

was
assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated

DNA.
Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the

sample, or
extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated

MGMT
promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a

 

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its

performance
characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA '88 regulations. as no ea or approved
for

specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

lNTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATEON
A.
Brain, left frontal mass, biopsy:

1. TP: Atypical isolated nuclei, few, reactive

astrocytes, and few
perivascular lymphocytes, not diagnostic (compatible with infiltrating

glioma,
other). Touch preparation smears performed at — and

results

reported to the Physician of Record.

2. FS: Rarefied white and grey matter, some reactive astrocytes, few
atypical naked nuclei, perineuronal satellitosis, not diagnostic (RIO
infiltrating glioma, other). More tissue, abnormal, for permanents

will be

submitted. .Frozen section performed at_nd
results
reported to the Physician of Record. —

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.
"Left frontal brain mass," received fresh, two large fragments of

brain
tissue, mostly white matter: 2.3 x 1.7 x 0.9 cm in aggregate. In

total,
AlnAB.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates reactive plump

astrocytosis, and
a sparse gliofibrillary background. The CD153 depicts prominent

 

vascular—associated microglia, and absent activated/phagocytic forms.
With

the KPl there are not phagocytic cells. With the p53 there is an
appreciable

population of large nuclei that strongly over express the protein.
The MlBHl

proliferation highlights several large cycling nuclei, probably
neoplastic.

TOD-9(8):

 

Histo Data
Part A: Brain, left frontal mass, bio_

Stain/c Block Ordered Comment

    

rs H/E x 1

H/E x 1 l

H/E x l 2

H/E x l 3

Part B: Brain,contrast enhancing nodule bio s

Stain/on Block Ordered Comment

CD163 Vector x l
mGFAP—DA x 1

H/E x l

KPl—DA x 1
LOB—curls x 1
MGMT—curls x l
MIBl—DA x l
P53D07 x 1

 

s:e=e:e1H H H H

*** End of Report ***

 

