‘ m Encounter Date: “
\

 

 

 

Results SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Orderm
Patient Info
Patient 9 Sex DOB
“ Female ‘
Results
'ICD—o—3
"umagarfzszﬁgazasﬁsmamas.cted com nomawwng :33
SP6 IllIIlllIllIllIllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllll||||||||||||II|| ‘ _
S“ I”) ||l|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllll||lI| > Suwslaawﬂos

IIIIIlIIIlIIIlIIIl ll “I'll”"lull"IHIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIII CU’LG
7’5"L ‘0

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

1. Right colon, segment of terminal ileum and appendix, colectomy (A) -
Single focus of metastatic urothelial carcinoma present within subserosal
lymphovascular space.

— Segment of colon with mild crypt architectural distortion and submucosal
fibrosis, consistent with prior biopsy site changes; no evidence of
residual dysplasia or adenocarcinoma.

— Hyperplastic polyp.

— Submucosal lipoma.

- Appendix and small bowel with no specific diagnostic alteration.
«Thirty—three pericolonic lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/33).

— See comment.

2. Right distal ureter, excision (B) - Benign portion of ureter, negative
for urothelial dysplasia/carcinoma.

3. Left distal ureter, excision (C) - Benign portion of ureter, negative
for urothelial dysplasia/carcinoma.

4. Urethral margin, excision (D) - Benign urethral tissue, negative for
urothelial dysplasia/carcinoma.

5. Urinary bladder, uterus, cervix, and vagina, anterior exenteration

— Bladder with invasive high grade papillary urothelial carcinoma,
extending through the perivesical fat and into the stroma of the endocervix
and lower uterine segment myometrium, as well as into the vaginal submucosa
(see comment).

-Lymphvascular invasion is identified.

-Perineural invasion is identified.

—Carcinoma extends to the inked posterior serosal surface of the bladder.
«Vaginal margin is negative for carcinoma.

-Uretera1 and urethral margins are negative for carcinoma.

-Urothelial carcinoma in situ is identified in the bladder mucosa.
—Unremarkable uterine cervical mucosa.

~Inactive endometrium.

6. Urethral margin #2, excision (F) - Benign portion of urethra, negative
for urothelial dysplasia/carcinoma.

7. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision (G) - Fourteen lymph nodes negative
for carcinoma (0/14).

8. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision (H) - Metastatic urothelial

 

    

 

 

 

Emeri- ~ 1. V. ' m‘: M
)iagnmi: Dliclepn 5y'____ l...” — ~L
.DL , m ‘ / _
,._..____4j_,
. NM -379...

 

 

b Page 1 of 5

114L4d££.:‘;1¢{ :40

m Breweries-

carcinoma involving five of twenty-three lymph nodes (5/23).
- Extranodal extension is identified.

COMMENT

1. (A) The entire previous biopsy site and colonic tissue adjacent to it
were submit d for histologic evaluation. There is no evidence of residual
dysplasia or invasive adenocarcinoma in this specimen. Slides from part A
of this case were reviewed with Dr.

5. Procedure:
Anterior exenteration

Tumor Size (greatest dimension): 5.0 cm

Histologic Type:
Urothelial carcinoma

Associated Epithelial Lesions:
Urothelial carcinoma in situ

Histologic grade:
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO ):
High—grade

Microscopic Tumor Extension:
Perivesical fat

Myometrium

Endocervical stroma

Vaginal submucosa

Margins:

Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Carcinoma extends to the inked
posterior serosal surface of the bladder.

Ureteral margins, urethral margin, and vaginal margin negative for
carcinoma. '

Lymphovascular Invasion :
Present

Pathologic Stage (TNM):

Number lymph nodes examined: 37

Number lymph nodes involved (any size): 5
Primary Tumor (pT)

pT4a

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pN2

Distant Metastasis (pM):
pMX

Slides from the cystectomy specimen were reviewed at the
with Drs. and

‘ M Encounter Date: ’

, M.D.
(Electronic Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED

: RIGHT COLECTOMY

: RIGHT DISTAL URETER

LEFT DISTAL URETER
URETHRAL MARGIN

BLADDER, UTERUS AND CERVIX
URETHRAL MARGIN #2

RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES
LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

m Q m m U Q m >

CLINICAL DATA
BLADDER CA

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
B. Negative for carcinoma (Dr. ).

C. Mostly denuded epithelium, negative for carcinoma (Dr.
D. Negative for carcinoma, however, no epithelium identified (Dr.

F. Negative for carcinoma (Dr.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh labeled "right colon" is a 14.5 cm segment of right colon
with an attached 9 cm segment of terminal ileum. An appendix is identified.
The serosal surface is smooth and glistening. The wall of the colon
averages 0.3 cm in thickness. The wall of the terminal ileum averages 0.2
cm in thickness. The mucosa of the colon demonstrates a brown—yellow

tissue reveals multiple ovoid tan firm nodules resembling lymph nodes.
Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1 margins (proximal
margin blue, distal margin orange), A2—A3 submucosal nodule totally
submitted, A3 biopsy site totally submitted, A4-A5 polyps totally
submitted, A6 appendix, A7 ileocecal valve, A8 small bOWel, A9-A17 lymph
nodes.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "right distal ureter" is a 0.3
cm in diameter, 0.2 cm in length luminal tan-pink soft tissue fragment.
The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette

M Pennants !

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "left distal ureter" is a 0.3
cm in diameter, 0.2 cm in length tan—pink luminal soft tissue fragment. The
specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled
C1.

D. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "urethral margin" is a 2 x 0.6
x 0.3 cm red-tan mucosal lined soft tissue fragment. The specimen is
totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled D1.

E. Received in formalin is a specimen consisting of a urinary bladder,
bilateral ureters, uterus, attached cervix, and portion of vagina. The
bladder measures 6.0 x 4.5 x 4.2 cm. The external surface of the bladder is

bladder wall grossly appears to be involved by a mass which extends beyond
the bladder wall, approaching the soft tissue margin. The right ureter
measures 5.0 cm and is unremarkable. The left ureter measures 6.0 cm and is
also unremarkable. The uterus measures 6.0 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm, and weighs 53.2
grams. A section of vaginal cuff and vagina are present measuring 5.0 x 1.2
cm. The vaginal mucosa is unremarkable. The ectocervix is unremarkable. The
endocervical canal measures 1.8 cm in length. Polyps are not present. The
endometrial canal measures 4.2 cm in length and 2.0 cm in greatest width.
The endometrium measures 0.1 cm in thickness and has a tan, smooth and
glistening appearance. The myometrium measures 1.5 cm in thickness and is
unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted as follows: E1 -
additional section right ureter, E2 additional section left ureter, E3
posterior bladder wall with right ureter orifice and small portion of
possible mass, E4-E7 right bladder wall with mass with extension beyond
bladder wall with soft tissue margin, E8 anterior bladder wall, E9 left
bladder wall with mass near ureter, E10-E12 left bladder wall with mass and
soft tissue margin, E13 left trigone region with mass, E14 left trigone
region with mass and portion of vaginal mucosa, E15 right trigone region
with mass, 316 anterior bladder wall, E17-E18 posterior bladder wall with
mass, E19-EZO anterior cervix, E21 posterior cervix, E22 anterior uterine
wall, 323 posterior uterine wall.

F. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "urethral margin #2" are two
fragments of red-pink soft tissue measuring 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. The

Encounter Date: _

Page 4 of 5

' a
‘ m— Encounter Date: it

cm. The nodules are totally submitted as follows: Gl two nodules, 62 one
nodule bisected, totally submitted, G3—G7 fragmented matted segment totally
submitted.

H. Received in formalin labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" are multiple
yellow-tan segments of nodular adipose tissue aggregating to 7 x 5 x 1.5
cm. Palpation reveals 14 tan, firm nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging
in size from 0.2 to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension. Additionally one
fragmented matted segment is also received in the same container measuring
5.5 x 2.0 cm. The nodules are totally submitted as follows: H1 four
nodules, H2 four nodules, H3 four nodules, H4 one nodule, HS one nodule,
H6-H10 fragmented matted segment sectioned and totally submitted.

Patient ID :
DOB : Age :

Date of Report:
Date of Procedure:
Date of Receipt:

Submitted by:
Additional Physicianln):

  
  
  

Location:
Test performed by: _

Lab and Collection

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order uni Lab and Collection Information
Result History

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Orde Order Result Histo Re ort.

Result Information

Resul Time Status Provider Status
% Final result Reviewed

MyChart Status:
This result Is currently not released to

Display full Result Report Display Order Report

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

M Page 5 of5

