Operative Procedure:
Right da Vinci VATS

Pre-Operative Diagnosis:
Not provided

Post-Operative Diagnosis:
Not provided

Specimen Received:

: Level 7 lymph node
Right upper lobe mass
Right upper lobe margin
4R lymph node

2R lymph node
Right upper lobe margin #2 -

TWPQW>

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

B. Lung, right upper lobe, resection:

Specimen: Lobe, right upper
Procedure: Wedge resection
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: At parenchymal margin
Specimen integrity: Intact

Tumor size: Invasive component measures less than 1 cm with overall
mass measuring 5 cm (see Note)

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Tumor histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma associated with mucinous
and non-mucinous adenocarcinoma in situ (see Note)

Tumor grade: Low
Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified
Tumor extension: N/A
Margins:

Bronchial margin: N/A

Vascular margin: N/A
Parenchymal margin: Involved by carcinoma
Parietal pleural margin: N/A
Chest wall margin: N/A
Other attached tissue margin: N/A

Treatment effect: N/A

Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):

TNM Descriptors:

[m (multiple primary tumors), r (recurrent), y (post-treatment)]
Primary tumor (pT): pT1a
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN0

Number examined: 3 (specimens A, D and E)

Number involved: 0

If lymph node(s) involved, specify involved nodal station(s): N/A
Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Additional pathologic findings: Patchy areas of fibrosis

C. Lung, right upper lobe, margin, excision:

Mucinous and non-mucinous adenocarcinoma in situ (2 cm in greatest
dimension).

Surgical margin is focally positive for tumor.

Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

D. Lymph nodes, 4R, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

E. Lymph node, 2R, biopsy:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

F. Lung, right upper lobe margin #2, excision:
Benign lung tissue.
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Note:

The overall tumor measures 5 cm in greatest dimension; however, the invasive
component measures less that 1 cm. This corresponds to pT1a in the current
AJCC/T NM staging system.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSB: Right upper lobe mass frozen for diagnosis came in two pieces with a
grossly positive margin:
Non-small-cell carcinoma. Favor lung over metastasis.
TAT: 14 mins.
FSC: Right upper lobe margin, new margin:
Surgical margin focally positive. Request additional tissue.
TAT: 12 mins.
FSF: Right upper lobe margin #2:
Surgical margin negative for tumor.
TAT: 17 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are six separate formalin filled containers each labeled with the
patient's name.

Part A is additionally labeled "A, level VII lymph node." The specimen consists
of a single fragment of gray-black soft tissue that has dimensions of 1 x 0.8 x
0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette A.

Part B is additionally labeled "B, right upper lobe mass." Please note a portion

of this tissue has been banked at the tissue bank and a portion has been

sent to diagnostics. The specimen consists of a previously incised and
sectioned portion of lung wedge that has overall reconstructed dimensions of 9 x
3.5 x 3.5 cm. The pleural surface ranges from pink-tan, smooth and glistening to
purple-red-brown and focally hemorrhagic. Upon sectioning, there is a solid,
ill-defined, tan-white mass that has dimensions of 3 x 2.5 x 2 cm. This mass
grossly comes to within 0.1 cm from the pleural surface but does not appear
grossly to be penetrating the pleura. This mass is grossly present at the

stapled surgical margin. A representative section of this mass is taken for

frozen section diagnosis and is resubmitted entirely in cassette B1. Additional
sections of mass to include pleura are submitted in cassettes B2-3. Sections of
tumor to staple line in cassette B4. The uninvolved lung is tan-brown and spongy
to focally red, hemorrhagic and congested. No additional lesions are identified
within this portion of lung. Representative section of uninvolved lung in

cassette B5.

Part C is additionally labeled "C, right upper lobe margin." The specimen
consists of a lung wedge that has dimensions of 11 x 2 x 1.5 cm. There is a
surgical staple line traversing one aspect of the specimen. The pleura surface
ranges from tan-gray, smooth and glistening to red-brown, granular and
hemorrhagic. There is an area designated by the surgeon at the time of frozen
section as the previous site nearest the tumor. This area is frozen at the time
of frozen section and is resubmitted in cassette C1. Additional sectioning of
the wedge reveals an ill-defined, tan-brown mass present at the margin. This
mass has dimensions of 2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. An additional section of this mass is
submitted in cassette C2.

Part D is additionally labeled "D, 4R lymph node" and consists of a single
fragment of gray-tan fibrofatty soft tissue that has dimensions of 0.4 x 0.3 x
0.2 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette D.

Part E is additionally labeled "E, 2R lymph node" and consists of two fragments
of gray-yellow fibrofatty soft tissue that have overall dimensions of 0.8 x 0.5
x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette E.

Part F is additionally labeled "F, right upper lobe margin #2, stitch marks
margin." The specimen consists of a lung wedge that has dimensions of 5 x 1.5 x
1.5 cm. The pleural surface varies from gray-tan smooth and glistening to
gray-brown with focal granularity. There is a staple line traversing one aspect

of the specimen. There is a surgical suture to orient the specimen. The specimen

is inked and the surgical staple line is partially incised at the time of frozen
section. The frozen section tissue margin is resubmitted entirely in cassette
F1. The remainder of the staple line is trimmed away and the specimen is
over-inked with black ink and serially sectioned to reveal a spongy, black-gray
cut surface without additional grossly identifiable lesions. Additional
representative sections are submitted in cassette F2.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken]—

