 

INAL ATHOLOGIC IAGNOSIS
A. Omentum, omentectomy: Metastatic high—grade serous carcinoma.
8. Ovary and fallopian tube, left, excision: Ovary and fallopian tube
completely
replaced by high-grade serous carcinoma; see comment.
C. Ovary and fallopian tube, right, excision:
1. Ovary and fallopian tube with high—grade serous carcinoma; see
comment.
2. Leiomyoma in soft tissue adjacent to ovary, uninvolved by ovarian

tumor.
D. Mesentery, mass, biopsy: Metastatic high—grade serous carcinoma.
E. Residual omentum, excision: Metastatic high—grade serous

carcinoma.

F. Skin, subcutaneous nodule, excision: Skin and subcutaneous tissue
with metastatic

high-grade serous carcinoma, extends to margin of resection.

COMMENT:

Focal areas with clear cell changes and sarcomatoid cell morphology are noted,
which can be seen in

this type of tumor. The percentage of these areas is <5% of the total tumor.

,' Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Location of tumor: Bilateral.
.. Type of tumor: Serous.
- Gracie of tumor: 3.
— Size of tumor: Left ovary and fallopian tube: 10 cm.
Right ovary and fallopian tube: 8.5 cm.
- Surface of ovary: Tumor on surface.
- Condition of capsule: Ruptured.
- Cut surface: Solid (minor cystic areas).
Page 1 of3
- Necrosis: Focal.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Present (best seen in slide 82).
- Sites of metastases in pelvis: Fallopian tube, other (omentum and mesentery).
- Size of largest pelvic metastasis is entire omentum: >2 crn (see gross
description).
- Pelvic lymph nodes: None present.
- Sites of metastases in abdomen: Omentum and serosa of bowel.
— Size of largest abdominal metastasis is entire omentum: >2cm (see gross
description).
- Para-aortic lymph nodes: None sampled.
, - Peritoneal cytology: Positive. (Cytology accession number: -
- Other findings: None.
- FIGO stage: 4.
- AJCC stage: pT3cNXM1.
as reviewed the case and agrees with the above diagnoses.
\ Specimen(s) Received
___ Wm‘entum‘wnﬁtﬁn)‘

 

    

C:Right tube and ovary (fresh)
D:Mesenteric mass

E:Residuai omentum
F:Subcutaneous nodule

Clinical HistOr
The patient is a—yith advanced stage ovarian cancer. She now
undergoes

exploratory laparotomy, bilaterai saipingo—oophorectomy, omentectomy and tumor
reductive surgery.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in six parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and
medicai record

number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-F are received in formalin.

Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "omentum." It consists of one firm,
pink-white/yeilow—brown, irregular, unoriented, multinodular tissue fragment that
measures 37 x

21.5 x 6 cm and weighing 1368 grams. The specimen is approximately 100%
nodular. A

representative section is submitted to Oncotech. A representative section is
submitted for cyarian

tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1-A4. Part A has
been grossly

reviewed by— The remaining tissue is
returned to the

container. -

Part B is additionally labeled "left tube and ovary," and consists of a morceilated
yellow-tan, irregular

soft tissue specimen measuring 10 x 8.5 x 2.5 cm in aggregate and weighing 86
grams in toto. There

are several dilated cysts or ducts filled with yellow—tan, mucoid substance, the
largest measuring 1.1

cm in greatest diameter. In addition, there is a white, firm tissue fragment with ill—
defined borders

measuring 2.5 x 1.2 x 1 cm. The remaining parts of the specimen are tan, rough and
studded with

numerous white nodules up to 1 cm. Tissue samples are taken for ovarian tumor
banking, and

photos are taken. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 81—85.

Part C is additionally labeled “right tube and ovary," and consists of a single irregular
adnexa

resection. The specimen is received measuring 8.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm and weighing 58
grams. There is a

disrupted candidate failopian tube and ovary present that is partially encased in
white-tannyellow

irregular mass. The candidate ovary measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm, with a white—tan,
whoried interior.

The candidate fallopian tube measures 0.5 cm in average diameter. The surrounding
mass is

white—tan-veilowand firm. Secti0n_s_are.S.ubmitted_.as_foilows:,,-.._.,M._.-_ _.—-.1.-,,c,_wm
Cassette C1: Candidate ovary and adjacent soft tissue.

 

Cassette C2: Candidate fallopian tube and mass.
Page 2 of 3

Cassettes C3-C5: Mass, representative!

Part D, additionally labeled "mesenteric ," consists of multiple white-tan/brown,
irregular,

unoriented, firm tissue fragments that are 7 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm and 21.6 grams in

aggregate.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes Dl—DB at a rate of one section

per centimeter.

The remaini ' ' returned to the container. This specimen was grossly
ﬂawed b
a

r E, additionally labeled "5 - residual omentum," consists of one white—yellow,
irregular,
unoriented, firm tissue fragment that is 95% nodular. It is 5.6 x 3.1 x 2 cm.
Representative sections
are submitted in cassettes E1—E3. The remaining tissue is returned to the container.

 

Part F, additionally labeled "6 — subcutaneous nodule," consists of one pink—tan,

irregular, unoriented,

elliptical skin fragment with a central defect. The specimen is 4 x 1 x 2.5 cm. The

defect is 0.6 x 0.1

cm. The defect is 1.4 cm from a tip, 2 cm from the opposite tip, 0.5 cm from the

side, and 0.3 cm

from the opposite side. The resection margin is inked blue. The specimen is serially

sectioned

parallel to the long axis revealing yellow subcutaneous tissue, with white, diffuse,

firm tissue

subjacent to the skin. The firm area abuts the resection margin. Representative

sections are

submitted in cassettes F1-F3 as follows:

Cassette F1: Tips.

Cassettes F2-F3: Full—thickness central defect showing area of white, diffuse tissue.
mfg tissue is returned to the container. Part F has been reviewed by Dr.

iagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by

attending

pathologist following review of all iathoioii slides.

 

