 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY UUID:284ECDBD-E19C-4042-9CBE-EAAOOSD2C69D
ll“ TCGA-BC-A112-61A-PR

Redacted
lllllllllll llllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

H H" ”I
case Numbe“ IHI Illllllllllllllllll HillIlllllllllllllllllllllll ”III
III llllllllIllllllllll||llIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll
Collection Date :
Surgical Pathology Report / CA « 0 — 3
Diagnosis: Gang/km! b49026 alga/u), N05
A: Liver, segment 4, capsular lesion, biopsy _ (Y ’ 70/3
- Bile duct ham oma. / may!“ 0r 5,-ﬁ: W 6.92.0
war; - per lab-'0 9 61/4"

B: Liver, segments 5-8, partial hepatectomy

- Hepatocellulat carcinomq, moderately differentiated (see comment).

- Size: three nodules, 1.5, 8, and 11 cm in greatest dimension.

- Margins: negative, carcinoma is 1.7 cm from the surgical margin of resection.

- No lymphovascular space invasion or perineural invasion identiﬁed.

- Foreign body giant cell reaction to foreign material and foreign material within vessels consistent with
history of embolization

- Uninvolved liver with non—speciﬁc mild lymphocytic portal inﬁltrate, minimal steatosis, and no ﬁbrosis
identiﬁed.

- Gross: vascular stent identiﬁed.

AJCC stage:
pT3
pNx
pr

Note: This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A
comprehensive review of all available information is recommended to determine ﬁnal staging.

Comment:

Immunohistochemistry is performed on a representative section of carcinoma (Bl). The carcinoma is
moderately to strongly positive for HepPar-l in a subset, positive for CK7 in a subset, and negative for
CK20 and PSA, with appropriate positive control slides. Dr. agrees (intradepartmental consultation).

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section is requested by Dr.

FSAl: Liver, segment 4, capsular lesion, biopsy
- Fibrosis and chronic inﬂammation
- No tumor seen

- Dr. concurs Primary Tumor Site Dlscrepuu'y
HIPAA Dlsqepmq

. .
Frozen Section Pathologist: —
farm’s. ,_
Clinical History: E ”I
with likely HCC.

 

Gross Description:
Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section and is a 10 x 4 x 3 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment which
was frozen as FSAl

Specimen B is received in a formalin-ﬁlled container labeled "liver segments 5, 8, stitch = do not mark

 

 

margin upper section" and is a 740 gram, 15.5 x 14.8 x 10.5 cm partial hepatectomy specimen. There is one
roughened cauterized surface, which is the surgical resection surface. This surface is entirely

inked blue. At the periphery, there is a 9.3 x 4.0 cm area of exposed golden brown liver parenchyma. There
is a portion of the liver tacked down to this surface with suture materia. There is additionally suture
material in the center of this exposed parenchyma. This is believed to be the surface referenced on the
specimen container as "do not mark margin upper section".

The capsular surface is red/tan, subtly mottled with hemorrhage and remarkable for a 10 x 7.5 cm area of
subcapsular ﬁrmness. This does not appear to be a contiguous mass. Sectioning exhibits golden brown liver
parenchyma. The liver parenchyma is remarkable for at least three intraparenchymal lesions, 8 x 5 x 3

mm, 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm, and approximately 11 x 7 x 6.5 cm. These intraparenchymal lesions are each ﬁrm,
white and have well-deﬁned to scalloped borders. The largest lesion has some areas of erythema and
hemorrhage scattered throughout. The largest lesion causes the capsular disruption noted previously.

The largest lesion has a lobulated shape and is believed to cause all of the capsular distortions. The two
smaller lesions are well within the parenchyma and not near the capsule. The smallest lesion is 4.3 cm to
the closest blue inked margin, the mid sized lesion is 4.8 cm to the closest blue inked margin and the largest
lesion is 2.1 cm to the closest blue inked margin. There are no other abnormalities readily identiﬁed within
the liver parenchyma. There is a wire mesh stent present within some of the vasculature of the liver.

Sections are submitted per the block summary.

Block Summary:

B1 - Largest mass, capsular disruption

B2 - Perpendicular section of largest mass to blue inked margin
B3 - Largest mass and adjacent normal liver parenchyma

B4 - Additional section from largest mass

B5 — Smallest mass entirely submitted

B6 — Representative mid sized mass

B7 - Normal liver

Tumor and normal was given to tissue procurement.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination performed by Dr..

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed as analyte speciﬁc reagents
(ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

These reagents have not been cleared or approved
by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

