UUID: 1DE6AC6C- BA81- 4C81- 8595- 21D6E9033C7eFd
TCGA- FD- A43X- 61A- PR

ted
IIIIIIIII II II I III I IIIII | IIIII IIIIII I"IIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllmm I IIIIIII IIIIIIII III
III IIIIIIIIHIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIII II IIIIIIII I IIII I IIIII I II III III

Gender: Male

DOB: ’ C b o ' 3

Race: White 0 WWII“? WWoJ- 9430/3 L

Report Date: 1 . L“ 1 i1, , Wu posh rwf’ £07 4
chP Q I "v '

Pathology Report: PM MAJ/(1M) ms c 0’)- ‘i

Surgical Pathology Report 9/};(12

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left pelvic lymph nodes:

- Eight lymph nodes (0/8), no tumor.

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes:

- Twenty lymph nodes (0/20), no tumor.

C. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens:
- Papillary urothelial carcinoma of the bladder.

- One lymph node (0/1), no tumor.

- Prostatic hyperplasia, no tumor.

- Seminal vesicles and vas deferens, no tumor.

- Focal chronic and granulomatous inﬂammation consistent with treatment
effect.

D. Distal right ureter:

- Ureteral segment, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type:

Papillary urothelial carcinoma
2. Grade of tumor:

High grade

3. Depth of invasion:

Lamina propria

Muscularis propria: Inner half with focus of lymphovascular invasion (C25)
4. Tumor distribution:

Multifocal (conﬂuent), 8.5 cm largest size
Dome

Right lateral wall

Left lateral wall

Trigone .
Anterior wall #ﬁ'
Posterior wall 3:3"

5. Ureteral margins:

 

Negative

6. Distal urethral margin:
Negative

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa:
Negative

8. Lymph nodes:

0/28

9. pTNM:

ypTZa, NO, MX

- . this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xxx

[1 MD.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD

Electronically Signed Out by U, MD.

Clinical History:
The patient is an year-old male with high grade urothelial carcinoma of the
bladder undergoing cystoprostatectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Left pelvic lymph nodes

B: Right pelvic lymph nodes

C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens
D: Distal right ureter

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in four containers each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "1. Left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 8 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5-3.5 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Al: 1 candidate lymph node, serially sectioned

A2: 3 candidate lymph nodes

A3: 3 candidate lymph nodes

A4: I candidate lymph node, bisected

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "2. Right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 20 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-3.0 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

B1: 6 lymph node candidates

B2: 4 lymph node candidates

B3: 4 lymph node candidates

B4: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected

B5: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected

B6: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected

B7: 3 lymph node candidates

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "3. Bladder, prostate,
seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an
18.0 x 11.5 x 7.5 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat.
The bladder measures 8.5 x 8.5 x 7.0 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 0.5
cm and the left 1.0 cm, and both demonstrate patent lumina. The prostate
measures 4.8 x 4.0 x 3.6 cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.0 x 2.5 x 0.6
cm and the right vas deferens 3.0 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 3.0 x
2.2 x 0.6 cm and the left vas deferens 7.0 cm. The right half of the prostate is
inked blue and the left half is inked black, and the outside of the bladder is
inked black. The prostate is opened anteriorly along the urethra and continued
superiorly through the bladder in a Y-shaped incision. The prostate is serially
sectioned from apex to base to reveal bulging, yellow to tan parenchyma with a
0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm area of induration located on the right prostate
posterolaterally. The bladder mass extends near the base of the prostate. The
bladder demonstrates a fungating, focally friable, tan—pink mass involving the
entire surface of the bladder. Serial sectioning reveals partial tumor invasion
into bladder wall to a depth of 1.5 cm, abutting the inked margin in multiple
locations of the anterior and posterior bladder. There is no normal mucosa
present. The bladder wall thickness is 0.5 cm in areas not grossly involved by
the mass. The bilateral ureteral oriﬁces are identiﬁed and probe patent.
Photographs are taken. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cl: Distal urethral margin

C2: Right ureter margin

C3: Left ureter margin

C4: Prostate apex, serially sectioned

C5: Representative sections of right vas deferens and seminal vesicle

C6: Representative sections of leﬁ vas deferens and seminal vesicle

C7: Representative section of right prostate through verumontanum

C8: Representative section of leﬁ prostate through verumontanum

C9-C10: Representative sections of right prostate above verumontanum in
region of induration

C1 l-C12: Representative sections of left prostate above verumontanum

C13: Right prostate in region of bladder tumor invasion

C14: Left prostate in region of bladder tumor invasion

C15: Representative section of mass in anterior bladder

C16: Representative section of mass in anterior bladder in region
abutting inked margin "
Cl7—C18: Representative sections of mass in anterior bladder
C19-C21: Representative sections of mass in dome of bladder
C22-C25: Representative sections of mass in posterior bladder

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4. Distal right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 2.5 cm in length and 0.4
cm in diameter tan, rubbery, tube-like structure with attached adipose tissue.
There is a long suture at one end of the specimen and this end is inked black.
The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted as follows:

D l : Margins

DZ: Central sections

[L MD

