Patient Name: Med Rec 3:: 1?: D O ”.3

Requested 8y:
Ordered By:

Report Name: :

 

Burg Path Case — STATUS: Final

"SEE NOTE Collect/Perform: UUID: 2ABEDE63Jan-453541212482“
6542CA3d
ordered By: Ordered Date: TCGA "1 AEIA- 61A

mI”!I'm1IImmmmluymImImummImumumm

llllllll HHI Hlllllll
enveeeeen wee eeeeemee ereeeeue IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllill'lulllll'ﬂ'llll
Requesting Physician:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, CASE”:
Attending Pathologist ;

DIAGNOSIS:

1. uterus, cervix and bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes. hysterectomy
and bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy:

- High grade sarcoma of uterus best classified as leionmyosarcoma and
measuring 5cm in greatest dimension.
- Focus suspicious for lymphovascular invasion

- Uterine leiomyomn.
- Proliferative endometirum with endometritis

. Acute and chronic cervicitis.

- RIGHT ovary with hemorrhagic corpus luteum cyst.

— RIGHT fallopian tube with paratubal cysts.

- LEFT ovary and fallopian tube with no significant histopathologic
findings.

A See synoptic report below.
2. Lymph node, LEFT pelvis. biopsy;

- Six (6) lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/6).
3. Lymph node. RIGHT pelvis, biopsy:

~ Fibroadipose tissue with extensive acute inflammation and cautery
artifact.

e No lymph node identified.

4. Omentum, biopsy:

. Pibroadipose tissue with extensive acute inflammation and reactive

37032. \

Patient Nameﬁ Med Rec 3:

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

fibrosis.
PULL SYNOPTIC REPORT
« Histologic Typezﬁigh grade sarcoma conisistent with Uterine
leiomyosarcoma
- Histologic Grade: G3 - poorly differentiated
— Tumor Size:
Greatest dimension: 5.0cm: other two dimensions: 4.0 x 2.5cm
- Specimen Integrity: Intact
- Tumor Site: Anterior and posterior
. Myometrial Invasion: Present - 52%
Depth of invasion: 2.4cm - more than 50% myometrial invasion
Myometrial thickness: 2.6cm

Cervical Stromal Invasion: Absent

- Lymphevascular Invasion: suspicious focus
- Paracervical Soft Tissue Margin: Indeterminate
— Other Tissues/Organs Involved: Bilateral ovaries, fallopian tubes and
omentum negative for
tumor

— Peritoneal Ascitic Fluid (from cytology report): Negative -
~ Regional Lymph Node Metastasis:

Pelvic nodes (number of positive/number examined): 0/6

Para-aortic nodes (number ot positive/number examined): Cannot be
assessed
- Distant Metastasis (including abdominal lymph nodes): Cannot be
determined
. Additional Pathologic Findings: Uterine leiomyoma, hemorrhagic corpus
luteum cyst of

RIGHT ovary, paratubal cyst of RIGHT fallopian tube; acute and chronic

cervicitis
- Ancillary Studies:

ER (immunohistochemical stain): pending

PR (immunohistochemical stain):

Other:
— AJCC Pathologic Staging: pTla N0 MN/A; FIGO:

COMMENT: Slides reviewed with a second pathologist who concurs. Multiple
immunostains are performed which do Show some positive staining although
very patchy for muscle markers caldesmin, desmin and SMA. Other positive
markers include 916 and CD10. Cytokeratin shows patchy positivity. Given
the fasicular/spindle morphology of the tumor coupled with atleast focal
evidence of muscle differentiation by immunostaining we believe this is

best classified as leiomyosarcoma.

9159. 7.

Patient Name: Med Rec h:

Requested By:
Ordered Byu

Report Name:

.n-u==--=n----==:===a----:======:I-x==:===:---======z--=======:--su==::=-

CLINICAL INFORMATION:
Pelvic mass uterine cancer. Exploratory laparotomy. total abdominal
hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy, lymph node dissection,

extensive lysis of adhesion, omentectomy.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

1. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and
labeled uterus. cervix. tubes and ovaries. It consists of a 589 g, markedly
distorted hysterectomy specimen with attached bilateral adnexa. The uterus
measures 15.5cm from fundus to ectocervix, 10.0cm from cornu to cornu, and
B.5cm from anterior to posterior. The cervix is surfaced by a 2.5 x 2.2cm
portion of tan—white glistening mucosa. The cervix exhibits a 0.5cm
slitlike. probe patent 05. The uterine serosa is tan—pink to red purple,
smooth and glistening to focally shaggy. The anterior aspect of the serosa
is inked in blue and the posterior aspect inked in black. The uterus is
bivalved into anterior and posterior halves to reveal a 5.0 x 4.0 x 2.5cm
tan-gray to tan—brown, exophytic mass identified in the endometrial cavity.
The mass is located in the anterior and posterior fundus and focally
extends to within 6.5em of the cervical os, on the posterior aspect. The
mass is located predominately in the fundic aspect of the endometrial
cavity; however the mass approaches the posterior lower uterine segment.
Cut section of the mass reveals a variegated, tan-gray to red—brown, soft
cut surface. The mass extends into the myometrium, predominantly in the
posterior fundus. The mass focally extends to within 0.2cm of the posterior
uterine serosa. The tumor is diffusely softened with areas of apparent
necrosis. The remainder of the endometrial cavity, which measures 8.0cm in
length and 4.0cm across, exhibits tan-red. glistening endometrium,
averaging 0.2cm in thickness. The myometrium is tan~pink and trabecular,
ranging from 1.0cm up to 3.5cm in thickness. Also identified in the
anterior fundus is a 1.0cm in greatest dimension ovoid, tan—white, rubbery
intramural nodule. The nodule exhibits a tan—white to tan-yellow whorled,
rubbery cut surface. The endocervical canal is taniwhite, trabeculated and
measures 2.5cm in length. The attached right ovary is tan-yellow,
bosselated and measures 3.0 x 2.5 x l 5cm. The ovary is sectioned to reveal
a 1.3cm hemorrhagic, corpus luteum and several tan-white, corpora
albicantia ranging up to 0,5 cm. The remainder of the cut surface consists
of tan-pink ovarian stroma. The attached right fallopian tube is difficult
to identify grossly, however adjacent to the right ovary is a 3.0 x 0.8cm

red~ purple tubular structure. The structure exhibits an apparent lumen on

?a:9e. 3

Patient Name; Med Rec 3:

Requested By:
ordered Byu

Report Name:

cut section. The attached left ovary is taneyellow and bosselated and
measures 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.2cm. The ovary is sectioned to reveal several
tan—white corpora albicantia, ranging up to 0.3cm in greatest dimension.
The remainder of the cut surface consists of tan-pink ovarian stroma. The
attached left fallopian tube measures 4.0cm in length, ranges from 0.5cm up
to 0.8cm in diameter and exhibits a timbriated end. The tube exhibits a
smooth glistening serosa and a pinpoint lumen on cut section.
Representative sections of the aforementioned mass are submitted for frozen
section. Additional representative sections are submitted for permanent
section.

Cassette summary:

Note: orange ink indicates bisected continuous section
IAFSC-lerc—Erozen section residue

1C—1D—Eull-thickness tumor with deepest invasion. posterior
lE-lF-fu11~thickneas tumor with deepest invasion, posterior
16-1H-fu11 thickness tumor to posterior lower uterine segment
11»1J-£ull thickness tumor, anterior fundus to uninvolved endometrium
1K—1M-additiona1 representative tumor, apparent necrotic areas -
lN-anterior endomyometrium, full thickness

10- full thickness, posterior endomyomctrium

1P—intramural nodule

lQ-anterior cervix

lR-posterior cervix

lS—right ovary and right fallopian tube

lT~1eft ovary and left fallopian tube

Additional representative sections of tumor Submitted in cassettes IU—IX.

Additional representative sections of left fallopian tube submitted as

total in cassettes

INTRAOPBRATIVE CONSULTATION: High grade malignant spindle cell lesion.
Sections also reviewed by Reported to

2. The specimen is received fresh and labeled left pelvic lymph node. It
consists of a 6.0cm aggregate of tan-yellow fatty tissue within which
multiple, irregular lymph nodes are identified, ranging from 0A4cm up to
2.56m in greatest dimension. The larger lymph nodes are bisected to reveal
cut surfaces ranging from tan-red to tan-yellow. The specimen is entirely

submitted.

3303?, Cf

Patient Name:' Med Rec #:

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

Cassette summary:

2A—2C-each cassette contains one bisected lymph node
2D—two whole lymph nodes
ZE-ZM—remaining fatty tissue

3. The specimen is received fresh and labeled right pelvic lymph node. It
consists of a 6.0cm aggregate of tan-yellow fatty tissue within which no
discrete lymph nodes are grossly identified. Identified within the fatty
tissues are portions of tan-pink vasculature surrounded by possible
lymphoid tissue‘ The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes 3A-3L.

4. The specimen is received fresh and labeled omentum. It consists of a
21.0 x 3.0 x 0.7cm irregular portion of tan-yellow omentum. The omentum is
serially sectioned to reveal focally hemorrhagic, tan yellow lobulated fat.
No discrete lesions or lymph nodes are grossly identified. Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes 4A-AD.

The following special studies were performed on this case and the
interpretation is incorporated in the diagnostic report above:

2xCDlO, 2XCALDESMON, 1xP16, 1xP53. lxMYOGBNIN, 2xMYOD—1, 1xVIMENTIN.
1XDESMIN, lePITHELIAL MEMBRANE AG, leElz3, IXSMCOTH MUSC ACTIN (SMA),
leSTROGEN RECEPTOR, leROGESTERONE RECEPTOR

~~ Electronic Signature *'
**Electronically Signed Out by

I certify that I personally conducted the diagnostic evaluation of the
above specimen(s) and have rendered the final diagnosisles).
Note: The histology, immunochemistry and in situ hybridization components

for this case were performed at

The Attending Pathologist reviewed this case and made the diagnosis.

where applicable, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization tests were
developed and the performance characteristics determined by the

These tests
have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration

and the results should be correlated with other clinical and laboratory

Patient Name; Med Rec ﬂ:

Requested By;
Ordered By:

Report Name:

data. Appropriate controls were performed for all immunohistochemiscry,

situ hybridization and histochemical tests.

 

 

 

 

Crlmrla . A! l 5’ 3‘ p j_ \‘u _ 1'.) _
Dlaﬂnﬂsii Dunepauw _ _’ L- _.

r Sue [\i_scrl\1ancy

    

 

 

 

 

 

