 

 

 

' SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

.
A. Semen! implant

B.

C.

moan)»

‘

1, Associated epithelial legions Urotiielial carcinoma in situ.
. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Metastatic uroihelial carcinoma is identiﬁed in specimen A as a semeal implant
. pTNM stage: pT2b.N0.

N

«wwe

Nu ¢ mmwmg

N-d

. Cystectorny and prosiaieoiomy:

. Histologic type: Uroihellal.
. Histologic grade: High-grade (grade Ill).
. Tumor size: Largest representing dome of bladder approximately 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm.

. Lymphovascular space invasion Present.

. Margins uninvolved.

i Tumor quantitaﬁon: Appmxirnabeiy 5% of gland volume.
. Gleason gmde: 4 r

. Seminalveelcleinvolvemenl: No.

. Lymphovascular space invasion: Noiidemiﬁed.
. High grade PlN: Present.

.Treaiment effect: None identiﬁed.

. Margins uninvolved.

 

   

Metastatic higlwrade urolhelial carcinoma.

Right ureter distal margin:
Benign. no pathological diagnose

Left ureter distal margin:
Benign. no pathological diagnosis.

 

Carcinoma of bladder and additional incidental carcinoma or prostate.
Cysteolomy: Carcinoma.

Tumor Characteristics:

Mimosoopio tumor extension: Tumor invades deep musculan‘e propria (outer half).
Surgical margins:

Other:

Prostateotomy: Carcinoma. /¢ £5 __ 0 , 3

TumorCharacteristice: ~ ﬁfﬁ gill ’ 57/ 0 '
Histologio type: Admrcinoma, conventional type. OWN, WU’ , A” b 2 /‘5

Prostatesize: 5.0x4.0x3.5cm. Jlfz_ b/uénl'I/K a : (34,7,

a. Primary pattern: 3/5. /p/;¢/,,
b. Secondary paiiem: 3/5.
c. ToialGleaeonsoore: 6/10.

Extraprosiatio extension: No.

Surgicel Margin Status:
Lymph Node Status (utilizing specimens E and F):

 

. Total number of lymph nodes received: 2. _

. Total nglhbféoflymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma; None (0/2). I“ mrﬁiﬁ‘ﬁiﬁlgﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁiﬁir-F415516B4éaecdacted
. Others' ni can ii in : Ben' it re lion lasia l H I“

. pm me 94231? " " 5‘” W m umuimlmimillllliluiimillililil'l'll'lllllﬂl'ml ”I"

_ 511,9“:me mph node; IllllllllIll"llllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Benign, hyperplasia (0/1).

 

 

 

F. Left pelvic lymph node:
Benign, hyperplasla (011).

G. Vermitom'i appendix
No pathological diagnosis.

Electronic Signature:

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Bladder CA
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologlc Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Serosal implant

8. Right ureter, clip on distal margin
0. Distal lell urew

D. Bladder, prostate

E. Right pelvic lymph node

F. Left pelvic lymph node

G. Appendix

   

   

onoss mononou ' "

A The ﬁrst oontainerA is labeled . serosal implant The specimen consists or a gray tan nodule measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The nodule
is blseded. A portion was examined attire time oisurgery. The nodule is entirely submitted in cassettes " a as follows: frozen section~1;
remainder of nodule-2.

B. The second container 8 is labeled , right ureter, clip is on distal margin. The specimen consists of a portion of ureter measuring 0.1 cm

in diameter and 0.2 cm in length. The specimen was examined atthe time of surgery and is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette

C. The third container C is labeled distal left ureter. The specimen consists of a portion of ureter measuring 0.8 cm in diameter and 0.2
cm in length. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette

D. The fourth container D is labels: >ladder. prostate. The specimen consists of a bladder, prostate and attached perivesloulnr fat
measuring in total 14.0 x 10.0 x 7.0 cm and weighs 278 gram The bladder itself mmures 6.5 x 8.0 x 4.5 cm. The bladder has men received bisected
into anterior and posterior. The mucosal surface is light ten to grey tan edematous There are multiple fool of brown tan nodules involving the dome
right and left lateral walls measuring from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. On the left lateral well there is an area of ulceration measuring 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The most distal
nodule is within 3.2 cm of the distal resection margin at the prostatlo urethra. The right and left ureter: are probed and are patent and are grossly
uninvolved by the mass. The left ureter is dilated up to 0.7 cm. The most distal lesion appears to be right above the lrigone. On sectioning the lesions
appear to extend superﬁcially into underlying wall and is 1.5 cm from the inked deep margin. The prostate measures 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.5 an. The art surface
has a gray an nodular architecture. A lesion is not identiﬁed grossly. The tall and right seminal vesicle and vas deferens are identiﬁed and appear
grossly unremarkable. On sectioning through the perivesicular tat there are no lymph nodes grossly identiﬁed. Received with the specimen are three
cassettes. one amen, one yellow, one blue. labeled l Representative sections are submitted in cassettes «5 follows:
perpendicular sections taken from the distal margin at the proswrlc urethra-1 and 2; sections from the lesions involving me dome—a; right lateral wall—4;
left lateral wall—5; sections from the large lesion involving the trigone—e to 8; ﬂoor of bladder-9, right distal ureter~10; right proximal ureter taken at the
oriﬁce—11; lett distal ureter-12; lelt proximal ureter taken at the oriﬁce—13; left lobe of prostate-14: right seminal vesicle and vasol 5; right lobe of
prostate—46: left seminal vesicle and use—17.

E The ﬁlth container E is labeled . right pelvic lymph node. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 3.0 x 3.5
x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.7 cm. bisected. examined at the time ofsurgery and the frozen sedlon is
subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette . ,

F. The sixth container F is labeled left pelvic lymph node. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x
1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a single lymph node measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. The lymph node was sectioned. examined at the time of surgery and the
frozen section is subsequently entirely submitted in a single cassette

G. The seventh container (3 is labeled appendix. The specimen consists of an appendix measuring 6.0 cm in length and 0.5 on in

 

 

diameter with alto

al fat measuring 2.0 cm in thickness l
appendix is gray to brown tan. There ' ‘

rs no evrdence of ration grossly identiﬁed. 0
the "men There are no fecaiiths or lesions identiﬁed grossly R ‘
Q0 part D. additionalsﬁsalousm

 

chad periappendice

hat is yellow to brown

 

 

