 

 

loo—o- :’>

C J)” W1 N05 8130/3 ,
53:0.“ . i3 LIME/v No; Lb? 6] ppm/Io
"_g ._:_.,-_—- .w- IV/
0 ------ - SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Patient Name:
Med. Rec. #:

DOB: (Age: 57) Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATIENT
Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:

58 year old male with large volume HG bladder carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:
1: SP: Rectus sheet. biopsyr

2: SP: Urethra, margin; biopsy \ ‘,

3: SP: Bladder and prostate; radical cystoprostatectomy
4: SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection

5: SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection

6: SP: Pre-vesicle tissue. biopsy

7: SP: Abdominal wall hernia sac; resection

8: SP: Small bowel; resection

9: SP: Ureter, left distal; biopsy

10: SP: Ureter, right distal; biopsy

11: SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin; biopsy
12: SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin #2; biopsy

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. SP: Rsctus sheet. biopsy I:
Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.

2. SP: Urethra,margln; biopsy’ /: . , -
Benign prostatic urethra.

3. SP: Bladder and prostate; radical cystoprostatectomy:

a.

“WMWMMMMNWWNMMMWMMWNN

Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:
Papillary

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
Inverted / Nodular

Tumor Multicentricity:
Identiﬁed

Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesical soft tissues

HMMMMWNIWIIW
lHWﬁmlmmwmmmmmwmmm

Criten.
Di II." Mm

Py‘ "ka Yu I'M
MN. rn
mun Mum
Pr riar
Dull/xi",
Inc a," p"
“as sci. [WW

Rﬂl‘lverhi "m,“ 1],:

   
  

There is a perforation through the bladder wall with focal nests of carcinoma inﬁltrating through the perivesical soft tissue

 

Page 1 of 7

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Ureters uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved

Vascular Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:

Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn's nests. cystitis cystica. cystitis glandularis)
There is a perforation through the bladder wall with exuberant inﬂammation, foreign body giant cell reaction and

myoﬁbroblastic proliferation

Prostate:
Other see part b

Seminal Vesicles:
Not identiﬁed

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Tumor Type:
Adenocarcinorna)
Gleason's Grade:
Primary Gleason grade:3
Secondary Gleason gradez4

Total Gleason score:7

Tumor Location:
Involves Right posterior
Involves Right anterior
Involves Left posterior
Involves Leﬂ anterior
Dominant tumor mass located in: right and left posterior apex-mid

Vascular Invasion:
Not Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Tumor Multicentricity:
Multicentric foci of invasive carcinoma are present

Higthr'ade Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia:
Identiﬁed ‘ ‘

Capsule:
Tumor invades into, but not beyond prostate capsule

Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

 

Page 2 of 7

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Prostate:
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2b (conﬁned to the prostate 8. capsule, involving both lobes)

 

4. SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection:
Five benign lymph nodes (0/5).

5. SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection:
Eight benign lymph nodes (0/8).

6. SP: Pre-veslcal tissue. biopsy:
Necrotic tissue and ﬁbrinopurulent exudate.

1. SP: Abdominal wall hernia sac; resection:
Hernia sac.

8. SP: Small bowel; resection:
Unremarkable segment of small bowel.

9. SP: Ureter, left distal; biopsy:
Benign segment of ureter.

10. SP: Ureter, right distal; biopsy:
Benign segment of ureter.

11. SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin; biopsy:
Benign segment of ureter.

12. SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin #2; biopsy:
Benign segment of ureter.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE

REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

'** Report Electronica..y Signed out '** ‘ ’

 

Special Studies:

Result Speci al Stain
RECUT

AE1:AE3

IMM RECUT
NEG CONT

 

Page 3 of 7

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Descri tion:

 

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled, "rectus sheet", and consists of one tan red soft tissue measuring 0.9 x
0.7 x 0.2 cm. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
FSC—frozen control

2) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled, "urethral margin", and consists of one tan pink soft tissue measuring
1.5 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
FSC-frozen control

n
I

3) The specimen is received fresh labeled, "Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, urethra, urachus, perivesical tissue and nodes, left
rectus muscle". It consists of a cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached soft tissue at the superior aspect measuring 18.5 cm
from superior to inferior, 14.5 cm laterally and 6 cm from anterior to posterior. A disrupted cyst-like structure. probably representing
an organized hematoma is identiﬁed in the soft tissue, partially covered by skeletal muscle on the anterior surface. The inner
surface of the structure is hemorrhagic. The skeletal muscle portion measures 6 x 2.2 x 0.3 cm. The anterior aspect of the bladder
is inked black and the posterior blue; the soft tissue margin is inked green. The prostatic urethral margin is shaved and submitted.
A urachal remnant measuring approximately 6 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter is identiﬁed. The bladder is opened along the
anterior midline to reveal seven cauliflower-like fungating masses occupying most of the bladder cavity measuring from 0.5 x 0.5 x
0.5 cm to 5 x 6 x 4 cm, situated on the anterior. right and left lateral and posterior walls and dome. The stalk of the left lateral tumor
is 1.6 cm from the left oriﬁce and the stalk of the right lateral tumor is adjacent to the oriﬁce. Both ureters are probe patent
measuring up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. Serial sectioning reveals that the tumors are limited to the stalk and do not show
gross invasion. Serial sectioning through the anterior portion Idome of the bladder reveals a perforation with a sinus tract draining
into the soft tissue attached to the bladder, 0.2 cm from the hematoma. The remaining bladder mucosa adjacent to the tumors
shows ulcerations. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are not grossly identiﬁed and the specimen is submitted for lymph node
dissection. The prostate is serially sectioned to reveal unremarkable prostate parenchyma. The prostate is submitted entirely. TPS
is submitted, photographs are taken.

Summary of sections:

UTHM - urethral margin

RUM - right ureter margin

LUM - left ureter margin

URM - urachal margin

T1 - tumor 1 (5 x 3 x 2 cm, left lateral/anterior wall)
T2 - tumor 2 (3.5 x 3 x 2 cm, left lateral wall)

T3 - tumor 3 (0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5. posterior wall)
T4,T5 - tumors 4 and 5 (1.2 x 0.7 x 0.6; 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm; posterior wall)
T6 - tumor 6 (0.7 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm, right lateral wall)
T7 - tumor 7 (5 x 6 x 4 cm, right lateral wall)

T8 - tumor 8 (3 x 2 x 0.5 cm, right lateral wall)

T9 - tumor 9 (1.3 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm, right lateral wall)
P - perforation

TRI - trigone

RUO - right ureter oriﬁce

LUO — left ureter oriﬁce

RSV - right seminal vesicle

LSV ~ left seminal vesicle

RAP - right apex prostate

LAP - left apex prostate

RAM - right anterior mid prostate

RPM - right posterior mid prostate

LAM - left anterior mid prostate

LPM - left posterior mid prostate

RAB - right anterior base prostate

RPB - right posterior base prostate

LAB - left anterior base prostate

LPB - left posterior base prostate

ADD — additional sections of prostate

 

Page 4 of 7

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIA—L' ..._

4) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring
in aggregate 7 x 5 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is submitted for lymph node dissection. Lymph nodes range in size from 0.5 to 2.0 cm
in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN-lymph nodes
BLN-bisected lymph nodes

hlcll

5) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring
in aggregate 5 x 4 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is submitted for lymph node dissection. Lymph nodes range in size from 0.4 to 2.0 cm
in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN-lymph nodes
BLN—bisected lymph nodes

6) The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "Necrotic pre-vesical tissue" and consists of multiple fragments of tan necrotic soft
tissue measuring 3.5 x 2 x 0.6 cm in aggregate. Representative section is submitted.

Summary of sections:
U-undesignated

7) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Abdominal wall hernia sac" and consists of a piece of ovoid-shaped tan
ﬁbromembranous sac measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. Cut section reveals a sac ﬁlled with yellow adipose tissue. Representative
sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
U-undesignated

8) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Small bowel“ and consists of a piece of unoriented bowel measuring a 3.0 cm in
length and 2.0 cm in diameter. Both ends of the bowel are stapled. Cut section reveals a mucosal wall thickening up to 0.7 cm. The
staples are removed and representative sections submitted.

Summary of sections:
BE - both ends
RS - representative sections

9) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Distal left ureter" and consists of unoriented tan tubular ﬁbroelastic soft tissue
measuring 0.8 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted in toto.

Summary of sections:
U—undesignated

10) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal right ureter, large clip on proximal margin" and consists of an oriented tan
tubular ﬁbroelastic tissue measuring 2.5 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. A clip is attached to one end. The specimen is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

CE — clip end

OE - open end

SS - serial section. clip end to open end, remaining specimen

 

Page 5 of 7

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

11) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal right ureter. high proximal margin" and consists of a piece of unoriented
tan tubular ﬁbroelastic tissue measuring 0.6 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted in toto.

Summary of sections:
U-undesignated

n .._. __

12) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal right ureter, high proximal margin #2" and consists of a piece of
unoriented tan tubular ﬁbroelastic tissue measuring 0.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted in toto.

Summary of sections:
U-undesignated

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Rectus sheet. biopsy _ )

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 fsc 1

Part 2: SP: Urethra. margin; blopsy’

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 fsc 1

Part 3: SP: Bladder and prostate; radical cystoprostatectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
ADD

URM
UTHM

AAA—AAAAAAQ—SAAA—s—s—sANA—a—LAA—L—L—s—s—LA
.A—l—l_IAAAAAQA—L—l—A—l—l—l—lN—J.A_LA—I—A—I—J—I_IA

Part 4: SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection
Block Sect. Site PCs

 

Page 6 of 7

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

3 BLN 6
1 LN 3

Part 5: SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection

  
 
 
      

 

__________"———-

 

 

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BLN 2 5M
3 LN 6 Diagnosis Discrepancy -
l‘nman Tumor Site Diserspsncv
HEM nircrepancv .
. . - Prrnr Mali nancy H'story _
Part 6. SP. Pre vesicle tissue, biopsy _p_"L——’.—yﬂ5ynrhronous‘?rimarytic-rd
Case is ((irclﬂ' QUALIFIED I DISQUALIFIED __
B‘ock sect. Site PCS leviewer Initials _I Date Revlewr-d:_/ _/
1 U 1 _._'— ,

Part 7: SP: Abdominal wall hemla sac; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 U 2

Part 8: SP: Small bowel; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BE 1
2 RS 2

Part 9: SP: Ureter, left distal; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Part 10: SP: Ureter, right distal; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 CE 1
1 OE 1
2 SS 6

Part 11: SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Part 12: SP: Ureter, right distal high proximal margin #2; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Intraogerativg Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

1. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: SP: Rectus sheet ‘: Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: SAME

2. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: SP: Urethral margim ): Benign
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: SAME

 

Page 7 of 7 END OF REPORT

