I'CECDO'ES

"mteattsztttgezttfsr“matte... “~ , , . Mum thw Sam/3
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 61W “ ., ,, 5L mm
iii'l'l'i'ili‘li'i'i'ii'ililiiiiiiliiinuumunluuimlii 53,12. ﬂaw. km

III I||||||||I|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII |I|||| T3573 (ﬂied/‘7‘

ADDENDUM MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:

Deeper levels and additional histologic sections are reviewed. As stated in the original
report, this pancreas is involved by ductal adenocarcinoma. The neoplasm shows
discontiuous spread and appears to arise from a background of high grade pancreatic
ductal dysplasia, with tumor surrounding dilated ductal elements (4H and 4|). There is
periampullary involvement (4F). The lack of continuity between foci makes evaluation
of tumor size difficult, but it appears greater than 2 cm overall. Perineural tumor is
present. There are multiple peripheral foci consistent with atrophic change, some
associated with inflammation. The designated surgical margins (1-3) are negative for
diagnostic dysplasia or malignancy. The permanent sections of the bile duct (4G),
taken from the Whipple specimen, show foci of glandular dysplasia in a background of
inflammation (particularly in the deeper levels). There is no involvement by carcinoma,
however. The true margin was submitted at the time of surgery (specimen #1) and is
negative. All examined lymph nodes are negative for diagnostic metastatic disease.

ADDENDUM DIAGNOSIS:
1. Bile duct margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic high grade dysplasia or malignancy.

2. Pancreatic neck margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic high grade dysplasia or malignancy.

3. Pancreatic uncinate margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic high grade dysplasia or malignancy; atrophy.

4. Pancreas, distal stomach and proximal small bowel, Whipple resection:
- Ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas, moderately differentiated.
- Resection margins negative (see above discussion).

- Seventeen (17) peripancreatic lymph nodes, NEGATIVE for metastatic
carcinoma.

5. Stent (gross only):
- Plastic tubing, consistent with stent.

6. Lymph nodes, celiac, regional resection:
- Two (2) lymph nodes, NEGATIVE for metastatic carcinoma.

7. Lymph node, portal, biopsy:
- One (1) lymph node, NEGATIVE for metastatic carcinoma.

***Carcinoma of Pancreas Summary***

Specimen: Head of pancreas, distal stomach, proximal small bowel,

common bile duct.

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial

pancreatectomy.

Tumor site: Pancreatic head.

Tumor size: Cannot be determined, greater than 2 cm by gross

examination.

Histologic type: Ductal adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated, grade 2.

Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor within pancreas (prominent
around pancreatic duct) and involves
periampullary region.

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma (see discussion

of bile duct above).

Treatment effect: NIA.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Lymph nodes: Twenty (20) lymph nodes, negative for metastatic

malignancy - see above.

Perineural invasion: Present.

Pathologic staging: pT2, pNO (AJCCIUICC TNM 7th edition).

Additional pathologic findings: Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia,

PanIN-3.

Clinical Information

Pre—op diagnosis: Pancreatic mass
Procedure: Whipple

Post-op diagnosis: Pancreatic mass
Clinical History: Pancreatic mass
Specimen Submitted

1. Bile duct margin

2. Pancreatic neck margin

3. Uncinate margin

4. Whipple

5. Stent

6. Celiac lymph node

7. Portal lymph nodes

Gross Description

1. Received fresh for frozen section, labeled with the patient's name and "bile duct

margin", is an irregular and unoriented portion of tan-pink soft tissue measure 1.2 x 1.0
x 0.5 cm. The entire specimen is frozen as F 1A.

Frozen section diagnosis:
Negative for malignancy.
The tissue block is subsequently submitted for permanent sectioning.

2. Received fresh for frozen section, labeled with the patient's name and "pancreatic
neck margin“, is an irregular and unoriented portion of tan-pink soft tissue measuring
1.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is frozen as F2A.

Frozen section diagnosis:
Margin negative.

The tissue block is subsequently submitted for permanent sectioning.

3. Received fresh for frozen section, labeled with the patient's name and "uncinate

margin", is an irregular and unoriented portion of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1.0 x
1.0 x 0.5 cm. The entire specimen is frozen as F3A.

Frozen section diagnosis:
Negative for neoplasm.

The tissue block is subsequently submitted for permanent sectioning.

4. Received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and "Whipple", is a Whipple
resection specimen including distal stomach, duodenum, pancreas and common bile
duct stump. The distal stomach measures 6.0 cm in length, 4.5 cm in greatest diameter
and 0.6 cm in wall thickness. The small bowel measures 103 cm in length, 3.5 cm in
greatest diameter and 0.4 cm in wall thickness. The pancreas measures 7.0 x 6.5 x 4.5
cm. The common bile duct stump measures 2.5 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter at
the margin. The distal pancreatic margin is inked blue, the posterior pen-pancreatic soft
tissue is inked black and the anterior pen-pancreatic soft tissue is inked green. The
gastric and duodenal mucosa shows a tan-pink and velvety mucosa with appropriate
folds. Sectioning the pancreas demonstrates an ill-defined fibrotic area with an irregular
tan-white to yellow cut surface surrounding the pancreatic duct measuring 2.3 x 1.5 x
1.5 cm. The uninvolved pancreas is firm and lobular. Multiple lymph nodes are
identified in the peripancreatic soft tissue, ranging in greatest dimension from 0.3-1.2
cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

4A) Distal pancreatic resection margin

48) Retroperitoneal pancreatic margin

40) Proximal gastric margin

4D) Distal duodenal margin

4E-F) Ampulla of Vater

4G) Common bile duct margin

4H-L) Pancreatic mass

4M) Uninvolved pancreas

4N-O) Anterior peripancreatic soft tissue and lymph nodes

4P-R) Posterior peripancreatic soft tissue and lymph nodes

43) Additional pancreatic mass
4T) Additional posterior peripancreatic soft tissue and lymph nodes
4U) Additional anterior peripancreatic soft tissue and lymph nodes

5. Received fresh, labeled with the patient's name and "stent, gross only", is a segment
of fenestrated blue plastic tubing with a length of 9.0 cm and a diameter of 0.3 cm.

There are no identifying marks on the specimen. The specimen is submitted for gross
diagnosis only.

6. Received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and "celiac lymph nodes", are
multiple irregular fragments of tan-pink to yellow fibrofatty soft tissue, aggregating to 3.0
x 2.7 x 1.0 cm. Two possible lymph nodes are identified, ranging in greatest dimension
from 1.3—2.0 cm. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:

6A) Single bisected lymph node

68) Single lymph node

60) Fibrofatty soft tissue

7. Received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and "portal lymph nodes", is an
irregular portion of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. Bisecting the

specimen reveals this to be a single lymph node. The entire bisected lymph node is
submitted in cassette 7A. ‘

Microscopic Description

1. Sections of bile duct demonstrate a bland mucosal lining. No diagnostic dysplasia or
malignancy is identified.

2. Sections of pancreas are negative for malignancy.

3. Sections of pancreas demonstrate a lobular architecture with focal fibrosis/atrophy
and chronic inflammation. There is no diagnostic dysplasia or malignancy.

4. Section of the pancreas demonstrate a well-differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma
surrounding a dilated duct. The neoplastic glands are angulated and lined by cells with
nuclei that are enlarged and bear prominent nuclei. Scattered mitotic figures are seen.
No lymphovascular invasion is noted. The tumor focally encroaches upon nerve
bundles (deeper levels pending). There are foci of background chronic
pancreatitis/atrophy. Seventeen (17) peripancreatic lymph nodes are negative for
metastatic carcinoma. There are zones of fibroblastic elements/reactive change,

consistent with prior biopsy site. Additional sections of the ampullary region, as well as
deeper levels of tumor, are pending.

5. Gross diagnosis only.

6. Sections demonstrate two lymph nodes, which are negative for metastatic
carcinoma.

7. Sections demonstrate a single lymph node, which is negative for metastatic
carcinoma.

DIAGNOSIS
(Provisional)

1. Bile duct margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic dysplasia or malignancy.

2. Pancreatic neck margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic dysplasia or malignancy.

3. Pancreatic uncinate margin, biopsy:
- Negative for diagnostic dysplasia or malignancy.

4. Pancreas, distal stomach and proximal small bowel, Whipple resection:
- Ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas, well to moderately differentiated.
- Resection margins negative.

- Seventeen (17) peripancreatic lymph nodes, NEGATIVE for metastatic
carcinoma.
- Pending additional studies.

5. Stent (gross only):
- Plastic tubing, consistent with stent.

6. Lymph nodes, celiac, regional resection:
- Two (2) lymph nodes, NEGATIVE for metastatic carcinoma.

7. Lymph node, portal, biopsy:
- One (1) lymph node, NEGATIVE for metastatic carcinoma.

A) lelsia

 

