 

Material examined:

Right upper lobe and others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Right upper lobe bronchial carcinoma, status after asbestosis?

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1) Right upper lobe: inflated, fixed preparation measuring 19 x 14 x 6.5 cm, with predominantly shiny pleural
surface, altogether slightly patchy or reticulate, grayish black markings. Laterobasal zone of adhesion over 52
and the border area of Segments 2 and 3, where there was a part of the chest wall up to 12 x 9 cm in size
including a rib segment 5.8 cm long. In addition a membranous part of the adhesive parietal pleura, fatty in
places, 12 x 9 cm in size lying clear over 52 and 51. The latter extensively covered the lateral parts of $2 and
bordering sections of $1 and was mainly without adhesion to the visceral pleura. There was another zone of
adhesion in a medial direction, at about the point of attachment of the part of the chest wall, attached by a
parenchymal flap enclosed by a row of clip sutures 6.5 x 5 x 2 cm in size (part of 56? middle lobe?}. A nodular
tumor, maximum 6.2 cm in size, at the base of 52, with dirty, whitish section surfaces, also focal grayish yellow
softening, sharp and markedly arched distinction from the adjacent parenchymal tumor on one side, on the
other side continuous infiltration of the visceral pleura and extension to the parenchymal flap attached
medially, where it extended to just by the base of the preparation and the row of clip sutures. In the region of
the contact point with the part of the chest wall, blackish thickening of the fused pleural lamina. Central
discontinuation of 32 about 1.7 cm distally of the bifurcation in the tumor tissue, also of one of the sub-
segment branches of BS. The other bronchial branches free as far as the peripheral sections. About 3.5 cm
away from the principal tumor in $1 a second, rather irregularly formed, pale grey tumor 1.6 cm in size in the
sub-pleural parenchyma, distance from pulmonary tissue with normal section surfaces to the pleura about 3
mm. Central bronchial resection line located immediately proximal of the segment division point, by the
bronchial stump a moderately solid node with dark grey pigment, 2.2 cm in size, damaged in places.

2) Lobar LN (item 12) upper lobe: irregular, predominantly heavily pigmented fragment of 1.8 cm.

3) Lobar LN (item 12) right lower iobe: node with blackish pigment, 1.8 cm in size, with some surrounding

tissue.
4) inter-lobar lymph node (item 11) right: two fragments with largely blackish pigment, of 0.7 and 1.2 cm.
5} Hilar LN (item 10) right: two nodes with grayish black pigment, 1.3 and 1,8 cm in size.

6) Hilar LN (item 10) right (no. II): node 2.7 cm in size, apparently damaged and with blackish pigment, with
some surrounding fatty tissue. Borderline dubious small portion of a similar node.

 

7) Subcarinal LN (item 7): two preparations 1.2 and 2.3 cm in size with parts of at least 3 nodes with grayish
black pigment up to 1.7 cm.

8) Low paratracheal LN (item 4) right: preparation rich in fatty tissue, 4.5 cm in size, with nodes, pale grey in
places, blackish in places, between 0.3 and 1.2 cm. A further blackish node or partial node, 0.5 cm in size.

9) Low paratracheal LN (item 4) right + left: fragment of fatty tissue 3.3 cm in size, inclusion of 3 nodes or
partial nodes each up to 1.2 cm.

10) Prevascular and retrotracheal node (item 3) right: longitudinal fragment of fatty tissue of 2.5 cm with two
nodes or partial nodes with blackish pigment up to 1.2 cm.

11) High paratracheal LN (item 2) right: node 1.4 cm in size with slate grey to reddish section surface and some
fatty tissue attached, containing another small, pale grey node 2 mm in size.

12) Lipoma: rounded, flat preparation 3.7 x 3 x 1.8 cm in size, with largely smooth, surface obviously covered
by a soft capsule. Section surfaces largely golden yellow, grayish red border area measuring 7 mm in length.

Examined

1) Tumor and part of chest wall, tumor with attached parenchymal flap (where the section surface was
marked in color), 2 small apical tumor feel, 2 pieces of parenchyma free of tumor (51 dorso—apical, 53 ventral,
central bronchial resection line and vascular displacement borders, nodes by the bronchial stump (laminated),
4 pieces of parietal pleura.

2) - 7), 9) - 11) Total material in each case (small, isolated node in 11),
8) isolated node,
12) 2 sections,

20 blocks, Elastica—v.Gieson, PAS, diastasis PAS, iron

Microscopy

1) The large tumor made up of small and large solid links of varying lengths, reticulate or branched in places,
and of occasional evident large atypical epithelial cells coated in epidermoid cells, with ample, in the main
weakly eosinophilic cytoplasm and nuclei showing major variation in coarse chromatin nuclear structure.
Numerous apoptoses, frequently at least five mitoses in a highly magnified viewing field. No inclusion of
mucin, instead intercellular bridges were repeatedly identified. in the center of solid tumor cell links,
degenerative changes in kariopyknoses and occasionally instances of cells showing dyskeratotic keratosis near
small and large areas of necrosis. Basic pulmonary tissue completely destroyed, development of fibrous
connective tissue moderately rich in cells with inclusion of inflammatory cells and vessels with thick walls,
some of which were filled with tumor cell links. Pleural border exceeded by tumor over a broad area in the
region of a lobar cleft, also incursion into the visceral pleura over a broad area, where the adhesiVe part of the
parietal pleura was free of tumor, only fibrotic. In addition here more pronounced chronic inflammatory cell

 

infiltrate. Towards the exterior including transversely striped muscle and intact rib bones with hematopoetic
cells of all kinds and to a lesser extent fat cells in the marrow cavity. In the small tumor focus also nests and
links of a solid, large cell tumor with characteristics of squamous cell epithelium structure, with here a short
stretch of replacement of original respiratory epithelium of a peripheral bronchus by atypical squamous cell
epithelium. Also destruction of the underlying pulmonary tissue, which was replaced by collagen and elastic
connective tissue, enclosed follicular lymphocyte aggregate and other inflammatory cells. Partially widened
airways in the pulmonary tissue free of tumor, slight deposition of anthracotic pigment in peribronchiolovasal
connective tissue and alveolar parenchyma with quite predominantly soft interstices. No evidence of tumor at
the displacement borders of the bronchus and large pulmonary vessels, respiratory mucosa normal. Lymph
nodes at the hilus with deposition of anthracotic pigment, accumulation of large macrophages and a few
secondary follicles. Adjacent lobes of the parietal pleura mainly entirely soft, only stretches of development of
slightly fibrotic connective tissue. Substantial adjacent fatty tissue in places.

2) - 11) Lymph nodes and parts of lymph nodes of various sizes with only occasional secondary follicles,
expansion of the paracortical or T zone, increase in capillary vessels in places, deposition of anthracotic pig—
ment of varying thicknesses and small focus of trabecuiar sclerosis. Small nerve stems and vessels of various
lumen sizes in the surrounding fatty tissue, including in sample 7) a small artery.

12) Fatty tissue in the shape of small lobes in places made up of single-vacuole fat cells, several enclosed
capillary vessels and narrow and broad bands of transversely striped muscle, which were also found in the
border areas.

EVALUATION

Right upper pulmonary lobe with one large and one small focus of a poorly differentiated, large cell squamous
cell carcinoma not tending towards keratinization. The large tumor located in 52 and adjacent parts of
segment 3, extending from the center to the periphery, encroaching over the part of segment 6 or the middle
lobe removed and infiltrating the pleural over a broad area, is therefore probably primarily a peripheral
bronchopulmonary carcinoma with a satellite node in the lobe on the same side. The adhesive part of the
parietal pleura above the tumor was not infiltrated by the tumor, and the soft tissue and the resected part of
the ribs were also free of tumor. Partial necrotic alteration of the principal tumor, with vascular incursions in
this as well. Pulmonary parenchyma free of tumor largely normal, no hyaline plural plaque in the resected
pleura. Displacement borders of bronchus and large pulmonary vessels and all removed lymph nodes free of
tumor. An intramuscular lipoma in sample 12) without criteria for malignancy.

Tumor formula in accordance with the foregoing pT4 pND V1 R0 equivalent to stage lllB.

Morphology: 8070/3

Topography: (234.1

 

