 

Path Report

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ACCESSION NO.
Final Diagnoslsies):
(A) Lymph node, pericaval, biopsy: One lymph node negative for
metastatic malignancy (0ft).
(B) Lymph node, hepatic artery, biopsy: One lymph node
negatiVe for metastatic malignancy (0H ).
(O) Bite duct margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(D) Pancreas margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(E) Anirum, duodenum. head of pancreas, common bile duct, and
proximai jejunum, Whipple:
Duclai adenocarcinoma, pancreatic. moderately
differentiated, pT3N1MX (see synoptic report).
Synoptic Report:
Specimen: Head of pancreas.
Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenecicmy (Whipple resection), partial
pancreatectomy.
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.
Tumor Size:
Greatest Dimension: 2.8 cm.
Additional Dimensions: 1.8 x 2.2 cm.
Htsictogic Type: Duotel adenocarcinoma.
Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated.
Microscopic Tumor Exiension: Tumor invades duodenal wail.
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphvasculartnvasicn: Present.
Perlneural invasion: Present.
Pathologlc Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas bui
without Involvement of the cetlac axis or the superior
mesenteric artery.
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNi. Regional lymph node
metastasis.
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 12
Number of Lymph Nodes Invoived: 1
I Pathoioglc Findings: Chronic panoreaiitis.

' The gross description and all microscopic slides have been
pathologlsi‘

 

A: Peri cavat lymph node
B: hepatic artery lymph node
-C: Bile duct margin

D: Pancreas margin

the

 

 

i -

 

Printed from: Del‘nuii

 

 

E: Antrum, duodenum, head of pancreas, common bile duct. and

proximal iejunum
Clinical History:
Adenocarcinoma of the head of pancreas.

iC‘ Stitch marks marginal.

lnlracperatiye Consultation:

  
 

FSAt: Pericaval lymph node: No carcinoma (1 block).
FSBt-FSB2: Hepatic artery lymph node: No carcinoma (2 blocks).
F801: Bile duct margin: No carcinoma (1 block).

‘ ' cute (1 block).

   

ross Description:
(A) (pericavat lymph node) Received fresh for frozen section
evaluation of metastatic disease is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm,
red—yellow, fatty tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected and
submitted in toto in cassette FSAi.
(B) (hepatic artery lymph node) Received fresh torirozen
section evaiuatton of metastatic disease Is a 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.5
cm, tan, rubbery lymph node. The specimen is bisected and
submitted in toto in cassettes F881 and F8132.
(C) (bile duct margin) Received fresh for frozen section
evaluation for margins is a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm, tan-red, denul
shaped tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in
FSC‘i.
(D) (pancreas margin) Received fresh for frozen section
evaluation for margins is a 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm, ten'red.
fragment of pancreas. The specimen is submitted In tote in
F801. '
(E) (antrum, duodenum, head of pancreas, common bile duct and
proximal Jejunum)
Received fresh and subsequently placed in formalin after
sections were taken for Tumor Bank are a previously opened
antrum of stomach (13.3 x 5.7 x 0.3 cm wall thickness), duodenum
(21.5 x 7.1 x 0.7 cm wall thickness), pancreas (5.3 x 2.7 x 2.4
cm), bile duct (5.0 cm in length by 1.0 cm in diameter). and
gaiibladder (9.3 x 2.7 x 1.7 cm). The posterior aspect of the
pancreas has been inked black, the anterior yellow. unclnale
margin green, vascular notch margin purple, and pancreatic duct
margin red. The bile duct is opened iongiludinally revealing
dilatation of the bile duct. A longitudinal section through the
bile duct and duodenum reveal no gross invasion of pancreatic
tumor into the ampulla or duodenum. Sectioning through the
pancreas reveals a firm, tan lesion within the head of the

pancreas that measures 1 .0 X 2.2 X13 cm. The tumor appears to
be invading into the duodenal wall but not into the duodenal

 

 

I—'

 

 

 

 

mucosa. The lesion is located approximately 1.0 cm away from
the uncinate margin, approximately 1.8 cm away from the
pancreatic duct margin, and at least 1.0 cm away from the
posterior pancreatic margin. The antral stomach mucosa is ten
and rugated wlthout lesions or ulcers. The duodenal mucosa is
ten and rugated with congestion of the distal aspect. No
lesions or masses are identified in the duodenum. The serosal
surface of the gallbladder is gray-purple and glistening. The
gallbladder ls opened revealing a wall thickness of 0.3 cm and a
mucosa that Is velvety, purple-gray. No stones or lesions are
identified. Palpatlon and dissection reveal seven tan potential
perigaslric lymph nodes that range in size from 0.3 to 0.7 cm in
greatest dimension. One tan potential lymph node is found
inferior to the pancreas measuring up to 0.6 cm in greatest
dimension.

Blocks submitted:

E‘l - pancreatic duct margin

E2-E3 - proximal stomach margin -
E4-E5 ~ distal small bowel margin

Ed-E? - unoinate margin

E8439 - longitudinal section through ampulia and duodenum
E‘iO-E12 - representative sections through pancreatic tumor
E13 . tumor to stomach

Eitl - representative section through stomach

Ei5 - representative section through duodenum

E16 — representative sections through grossly uninvolved
pancreas

E17 ~ representative section of the gallbladder including a
cross section of the cystic duct

E18 - seven potential perigasirio lymph nodes

E19 - one potential inferior pancreatic lymph node

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by iHC. Her2 by lHC andlor HERZ by FISH have been fixed as
perANP22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER, PR. i<i~67, p53 are reported as a semi~quanlitatlve
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-21mm and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining In any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in iess than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

