UUID: 08665681— 5102- 4D39- B7BB- 5107F901A93e7d
TCGA- EY- A4KR- 01A- PR

llllllllllllllllllllllllllI|||l|l|llllllllllllll|||||||||||||||| tad
Illlll |||||H|||I||I|||I||l| ||||||||| |||||| ||||||||||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number:

Diagnosis:

A: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, lymphadenectomy

- Metastatic high grade serous adenocarcinoma in three of three
lymph nodes (3/3)

— Largest focus measures 2 cm

B: Uterus, cervix, and bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries,
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:

Location of tumor: Endometrium

Histologic type: Serous adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade (FIGO): High grade

Extent of invasion:

— Through myometrium and into, but not through, serosa
- Lower uterine segment, cervix, and adnexa

- Lymph nodes

Myometrial invasion: outer half
Depth: 2.89 cm Wall thickness: 2.9 cm Percent: >99% (slide B10)

Serosal involvement: Tumor invades into, but not through, the
serosa

Lower uterine segment involvement: Present
Cervical involvement: Present; endocervical glands and stroma

Adnexal involvement (see below): Present

 

Other sites: Not applicable
Cervical margin and distance: Negative, 0.6 cm
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):
Total number involved: 8
Total number exam‘i ned' 8

ICA«47*3
We“ ., ; 91mg 1 saw, no: QVWII}
.Sﬂz: MJMNXWWW’ c544
Aﬁ,pﬂ>

Other pathologic findings: Multiple leiomyomas, up to 7.5 cm in
greatest dimension

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pT3a le
FIGO ( classification) Stage grouping: IIICl

These stages are based on information available at the time of
this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review.

Ovaries, right and left, bilateral oophorectomy

— Extensive lymphovascular space invasion bilaterally with few
foci of parenchymal invasion in one ovary, measuring up to 0.2
cm (see comment)

— No ovarian surface involvement

— Epithelial inclusion cysts

— Physiologic changes

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
~ High grade serous adenocarcinoma involving tubal wall and
fimbria with obliteration of lumen

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- High grade serous adenocarcinoma involving tubal wall and
fimbria with obliteration of lumen

C: Lymph nodes, left obturator, lymphadenectomy

— Metastatic high grade serous adenocarcinoma in three of four
lymph nodes (4/4)

— Largest focus measures 1.5 cm

D: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, lymphadenectomy

— Metastatic high grade serous adenocarcinoma in one of one
lymph node (1/1)

- Largest focus measures 1.9 cm

 

Comment:

The bulk of the serous adenocarcinoma is present in the uterus
and the pattern of involvement is most consistent with a uterine
primary with metastases to bilateral adnexae and lymph nodes.

Both ovaries show lymphovascular space invasion by serous
adenocarcinoma. One section from each ovary was submitted
initially, and then the remainder of each ovary was submitted at
my request. When the ovaries were removed from formalin,

we found that they had not been designated "right" and "left"
after the initial sections were taken. Therefore, I cannot

determine which ovary shows parenchymal involvement.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative consultation was requested by Dr. in

FSAl: Right pelvic, biopsy
— Serous carcinoma

Drs.

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
-year~old female with a history of high grade serous carcinoma
of the endometrium.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is labeled "right pelvic" and is received fresh for
frozen section and placed in formalin. The specimen consists of
two lymph node candidates; 3.5 cm and 0.9 cm. Representative
section of largest lymph node plus entire smaller lymph node is
frozen as FSAl. The remaining lymph node and tissue are
submitted as per block summary.

Block Summary:

FSAl ~ Frozen section remnant

A1—A3 — One lymph node (frozen section remnant), bisected
A4—A5 — One lymph node, bisected,

Specimen B is labeled "uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries".

Adnexa: Present, attached

Weight: 768 grams

Shape: Distorted by multiple subserosal myomatous nodules
Dimensions:

height: 13.0 cm

anterior to posterior width: 11.0 cm

breadth at fundus: 12.0 cm

Serosa: There is a 9.0 x 6.5 cm area of serosal adhesion
at the fundus. The remaining serosa is gray, smooth, and
glistening.

Cervix: 3 2 cm in diameter

ectocervix: Tan, smooth, glistening.

endocervix: The endocervical lining is diffusely covered by

white firm nodules.
length of endocervical canal: 4.1 cm

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 6.4 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 6.0 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 9.4 x 6.4 x 2.5 cm (protruding into the
endometrial cavity)

appearance: Tan, friable with focally firm areas

location and extent: The mass involves the entire

endometrial cavity and lower uterine segment and extends into
the endocervical canal.

myometrial invasion: Outer one-half -

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: The mass
grossly extends 2.6 cm into a 2.8 cm thick myometrium.

other findings or comments: There are multiple white, whorled
circumscribed myomatous nodules, one of which is entirely
calcified. The myomatous nodules range in size from 0.9 cm to
7.5 cm in greatest dimension.

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 2.5 x 2.0 X 1.1 cm

external surface: Grossly unremarkable

cut surface: Grossly unremarkable

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 5.5 cm x 0.6 cm

other findings: The distal fallopian tube transitions

into a 5.0 x 2.2 x 2.0 cm cyst containing clear fluid. Also
noted are focal white, dense areas within the tube. Fimbriae is
absent.

Left ovary:

dimensions: 2.8 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm

external surface: Unremarkable

cut surface: Grossly unremarkable

Left fallopian tube: .

dimensions: 6.0 cm long x 0.6 cm in diameter with a 4.2 x 2.5
x 2.5 cm clear fluid filled simple cyst at the distal end.
other findings: Sectioning reveals white, gritty fallopian
tube wall. No fimbriae present.

Lymph nodes:

Other comments: None
Digital photograph taken: No

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Yes

Block Summary:

B1 - Anterior cervix

B2 — Anterior lower uterine segment

B3 — Posterior cervix :

B4 - Posterior lower uterine segment

B5—B6 — Anterior corpus, bisected

B7 — Anterior corpus, bisected

B8 — Anterior myometrium with myomatous nodule
B9 - Posterior corpus, bisected

BlO - Posterior corpus, bisected

Bll — Posterior corpus, bisected

812 — Right ovary

813 — Right fallopian tube

B14 - Left ovary

B15 — Left fallopian tube

816—823 — Remainder of ovary (not specified)
B24—831 - Other ovary, submitted entirely

Specimen C labeled "left obturator" and is received in formalin
and consists of a 5.0 x 2.2 x 1.9 cm fragment of fibroadipose
tissue containing 4 lymph node candidates ranging from 1.2 cm to
3.7 cm in greatest dimension. The largest lymph node has white,
gritty, nodular cut surface. The lymph nodes are submitted per
block summary:

Block Summary:

C1 — One lymph node, bisected

C2—C3 - One lymph node, bisected

C4—C5 — One lymph node bisected

C6 — One representative section from largest lymph node

Specimen D is labeled "left pelvic" and is received in formalin
and consists of a 2.0 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm lymph node with white,
grittv cut surface. Representative qecrinn iq qubmittpd in blank
D1.

 

 

