— Page 1 01 4

UUID:BC263A39 -C697 -4BBF -9444- ECBF56443CAA
-T2-A6XB-91A-PR Redacted

nu lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
i1 llll‘l Milli Iiillll'lllllilllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllll as #3 5
11 1mm llllllllllll llllll lIlIlIIllllll Ill IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII W,W ,4 m

126299 . 34: 70/3
(Sit: cjhuuiiﬂﬁi? q

_ Dept w ‘
Phone: Waﬂqﬁ

\
——-——

 

MRN Encounter Description: Male DOB: I, 1,3
- #2 Department: q“)? 3
Order Surgical Pathology Request

 

Entry Date

 

Result Narrative
FINAL DIAGNOSIS

A) Tongue, glossotonsillar mass, biopsy:
- Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated (see comments)

B) Lymph nodes, right neck, selective neck dissection:

— Metastatic moderate to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (3.5 cm in
greatest dimension), see comments

- Thirty one lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/31)

C) Tongue mass, right base, excision:
— Salivary gland parenchyma admixed with skeletal muscle, negative for malignancy

COMMENT

The frozen section slides from specimen A were reviewed and the carcinoma is not
well represented on those slides The large tumor mass in the right neck does not
contain any lymphoid tissue within it, and may represent either a soft tissue
tumor deposit or (more likely) a lymph node which has been completely replaced by
tumor. If this is a replaced lymph node, there is extranodal extension of tumor
into the surrounding soft tissue. Immunohistochemical preparations, with
appropriately staining controls were performed on a representative section of
tumor from specimen B and show the following results: Tumor cells are strongly
and diffusely positive for p16 and show no circumferential membranous staining
for EGFR. HPV studies have been ordered and the results will be issued in a
separate report.

CLINICAL HISTORY

-year—old male with recently diagnosed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of
the neck with a glossotonsillar mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A)Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled with patient's name and
medical record number designated "glossotonsillar mass," is one fragment of pink—
tan soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm. The specimen is inked and bisected
and submitted entirely for frozen section consultation. The frozen section
remnant is submitted entirely in cassette (FSAl).

    

: [I'm afa'vft‘B 3 -

 

 

Dlscrﬂaincv

 
   

h'
-2ﬁ6i
‘7/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— Fame”

B) Received fresh for tissue banking, labeled with the patient‘s name and medical
record number, and designated "right selective neck dissection, stitch marks'
Level 2," is a 38 g irregular tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue, 5.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm. A
well-circumscribed 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.2 cm brown—red nodule is designated "Level 2,“
with a previously placed surgical stitch. The remainder of the tissue is
irregular brown-red nodular fibroadipose tissue. Serial sectioning through the
large nodule reveals tan-white homogeneous indurated cut surface. Lymph node
dissection is performed on the remainder of the unremarkable nodular fibroadipose
tissue. Sections are submitted as follows:

.

(Bl-32) Representative sections through large indurated mass
(as) Five candidate lymph nodes

(B4) Four candidate lymph nodes

(BS) Four candidate lymph nodes

(Be) Four candidate lymph nodes

(37-316) Remaining fibroadipose soft tissue other than large indurated mass.
submitted entirely

C) In formalin labeled IFright base tongue," is a cauterized
irregular rubbery skele musc e 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. Tissue is inked black and

is not oriented. Tissue is sectioned and submitted in its entirety as (C1).

INTRAOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

FSAl: Glossotonsillar mass: Benign

Intra-Operative Diagnosis Reviewed and Interpreted By:

'I certify that (1) all services on this form were rendered and are hereby
approved for billing, (2) all specimens/slides have been examined / reviewed, (3)
the medical record has been documented for these services, and (4) the rendering
of the services and the documentation in the medical record are in accordance
with guidelines.' -

Final Diagnosis Reviewed and Interpreted by:

ELECTRONICALLY SIGNED

Pathologist
Date:

Some tests used in this case were developed in and their performance
characteristics determined by the ‘

. The procedures and reagents have been validated
by evaluation of both negative and positive controls. This testing has not been

— rage : or 4

cleared or approved by the (1.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. Test results are
used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. The is accredited by the.
College of American Pathologists and is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-ea) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

"I certify that (1) all services on this form were rendered and are hereby
approved for billing, (2) all specimens/slides have been examined / reviewed, (3)
the medical record has been documented for these services, and (4) the rendering
of the services and the documentation in the medical record are in accordance
with guidelines . "

Lab and Collection
Surgical Patbglogy Request on

Specimen Information
SDecimen # Collection Date Received Date and Time

 

 

Resulting Acencv

 

 

Reviewed by List

Surgical Patholo y Request

  
 

 

Ordering maniaca— ' _ ._ Provider Not in System—
Result Information

Status Provider Status
Final result Reviewed

Surgery Report
Lab Printout

Qpen Hard Copy Result Report 7, __ - Surqical Patholoan Request.)
Order Report

View Orde; Information

 

 

 

 

Dept
__-_ Hospital Encounter Phone:
MRN :— Encounter Description: Male DOB:—
#: Department: " _
Lab Collection Information Lab IDs
Collectinn n’te Snecimen #

 

 

 

 

 

_ 1' age ‘* OI 4
Surgical Patholnqv Requ°3t Authorizing: ‘ Date and
Time: ,
Lab Department: Electronically ‘ .
Signed By: '
Order Information
Order Datemme Release Date/Time Start Datemme End DatefTime
Comments
Ordered by an unSpeciﬁed provider
Order Details
Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
ONCE 1 occurrence Routine Normal
Provider Information
Ordering User Ordering Provider Authorizing Provider _

Results Incoming
Attending Provider(s)

Collection Information
Collection Date

Order Report
View Order Infgrmatigg

There are no specimens.
Reprint Requisitions

Admitting Provider

Resulting Agency

 

Surgical Pathology Rogues; ’ mg

 

