UUID: F969E3E4- 6653- dlES- BSBC- BEFDBDGZCSlld

 

TCGA- A7- A425- 91A- PR
II
II

ted
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllaIlIIII
|I|III

IIIIIII II IIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII

IIII
IIII IIIIIIIIII||||IIIIIIIIIIII|II|I|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Lymph node, right axillary sentinel node, excision:
One lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

8. Breast, right, excision:‘
Invasive lobular carcinoma (see tumor characteristics in the
microscopic description).

C. Lymph nodes, right axillary contents, excision:
Ten of sixteen lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (10/16).

D. Lymph node, highest apical node, excision:
One of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/2).

Microscopic Description: ICID O .3
Invasive carcinoma:

Histologic type: Lobular W{hm' \nﬁ‘mkhg IMQV, '30)

Histologic grade:

Overall grade:2 8$2q3
Architectural score: 3 55‘ \:>
Nuclear score: 2 'k- FmsL (3&3)
Mitotic score: 1 C50 c‘

Greatest dimension (pT) 7.5 cm, Lam-17':3 rip
Specimen margins: Tumor is more than 2 cm from the deep margin of
excision and 1 cm from the superficial soft tissue margin.
Vessel invasion: Present
Nipple (Paget's). Tumor invades into the dermis beneath the
surface of the nipple: Paget's disease is not identified.

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified

Description of non- tumorous breast: Biopsy site changes are identified.
Fibrocystic changes.

Lymph nodes:

Number of positive nodes of total: Twelve lymph nodes positive for
metastatic carcinoma (12/19)

Size of largest metastasis: 2.9 cm

Extracapsular extension (present/absent): Present

pN: pN3a

Distant metastasis (pM): pr

Prognostic markers: Previously performed

Specimen

A. Right breast axillary sentinel node
B. Right breast stitch at 12 o’clock
C. Right axillary contents

D. Highest apical node

 

Clinical Information
Right breast cancer

Intraoperative Consultation
A) Lymph node, right axillary sentinel node. excision: One lymph node
positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

Gross Description

A. Received fresh labeled "right axillary sentinel node hot not blue"
is a lymph node that measures 2.9 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm in dimension. The
lymph node has a firm consistency and shows yellowish discoloration. A
representative section from the node is submitted for frozen section.
The remaining node is sectioned and entirely submitted for permanent
section in 6 cassettes.

B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right breast“ is a
1220 g, 29.0 cm (medial to lateral) by 23.5 cm (superior to inferior)
by 5.8 cm (anterior to posterior) soft, lobulated tan gold—like portion
of fibroadipose tissue in keeping with breast, designated as right per
requisition slip and container and oriented by a suture as stated
previously. A 17.5 x 5.8 cm wrinkled tan—white skin ellipse with a
flat 1.3 x 1.3 cm nipple is present along the anterior aspect. An
indurated focus is present subjacent to the central superior portion of
the skin, corresponding to the junction of the upper inner and outer
quadrants. The anterior surface in this area is inked blue. The
intact deep margin is inked black and the specimen is sectioned. There
is a central, 7.5 cm (superior to inferior) by 5.5 cm (medial to
lateral) by 4.0 cm (anterior to posterior) rubbery tan-white apparent
tumor mass is present (corresponding to the central junction of the 4
quadrants). The lesion is present within 3.5 cm of the inked deep
margin and appears to approach the anterior surface to within 2 cm. A
portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted for
tissue procurement as requested. The cut surfaces throughout the
remainder of the specimen consist predominantly of soft lobulated tan
gold adipose tissue with a scant amount of interspersed delicate
tan—white fibrous tissue. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is
identified.

Summary: 1 — deep margin subjacent to the lesion, 2 a lesion to
anterior surface, 3 through 7 — lesion to adjacent parenchyma, 8 -
random upper outer quadrant, 9 — upper inner quadrant, 10 — lower inner
quadrant, 11 — lower outer quadrant, 12 - nipple

C. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "right
axillary contents "is a 12.0 x 7.5 x 3.0 cm aggregate of yellow lobular
fatty tissue fragments which are not orientated. The specimens are
palpated to identify lymph nodes which range from 0.1 cm and 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension.. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as follows:
1 - 1 possible lymph node, 2 - 6 possible lymph nodes, 3 — 6 possible
lymph nodes, 4 ~ 2 possib‘e lymph nodes, 5 — 1 possible lymph node, 6 —
1 possible lymph node. -.

D. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "highest
apical node "is a 3.0 x 2.0 X 0.4 cm aggregate of yellow lobular fatty
tissue fragment. The specimen is palpated to identify 2 possible lymph
nodes present. The lymph nodes are 0.5 cm and 0.2 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimens are entirely submitted as follows: 1 — lymph
nodes, 2 — remaining fat.

umar Sile

 

