C .' Pagolofé

SURGICAL

PATIENT: PATH '
Hospital AIS:
Date of Rec:
Soc. Sec. .' Col:
Location:

Pathologist

Assistant:

UUID:1A .
Attending Mn: mm 3369:'4593'3ZAE-FAFMA033r55

0:63;“: {M mnmuﬁﬁﬁifﬁuumﬁif” ““3““
21° 3°; g;m,Wuu.u':m::Wtiztigrm,’W
fWﬁam mm mam: mIImImuIummummmm

dietastatic papillary serous carcinoma

 

 

2. 0mm ma. PARTIAL OWBC’I‘OMY:
—Hetastatic papillary serious carcinoma

3. LEFT OVARY AND TUBE. LEM smmo-mmoaecmuv:

-Primary ovarian moderate to poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma with anaplastic features, high grade
«Maximum tumor dimension: 5.0 cm
—'1‘he tumor is bilateral (see specimen #4, right ovary/tube)
v'l‘he tumor involves the ovarian surface
—'I'he tumor infiltrates paraovarian soft tissues
-'1'he residual ovary shows senescent changes and focal tumor—

i associated granulomatous inflamtion

’ -'I‘he left fallopian tube shows transmural involvanent (mucosal
and suhuucosal involvunent is noted in the fimbriated end) with
papillary serous carcinoma
-thensive serosal involvement also noted
-'1'hs fallopian tube also shows, foci of atypical epithelium.
intraluminal tufts of malignant cells admixed with histiocytes,
chronic salpinqitis and mesonephric duct remants
-Extensive tumor infiltration in mesoaalpimc is 1:0th
-ib:tensive surface reactive mesothelial hyperplasia. surface
fibrin. adhesions and associated acute and chronic inflammation

4. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT SMIMO-OOPHOREC'MMY:
-Primary ovarian moderate to poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma, high grade
-usximum tumor dimension: 4.5 on
-'Ihe tumor is bilateral (see specimen i=3, left ovary)
-‘I'he tumor extensively involves the right ovary which is
virtually entirely replaced by tumor
-Scanty residual recognizable ovary noted
-The right fallopian tube shows serosal involvement by papillary

serous carcinoma, chronic salpingitis with intraluminal
:ontinued on next pagem

Page: 2
histiccytes, admixed tufts of malignant cells and mesonephric
duct rannants
-Extensive tumor infiltrate in mesosalpinx with foci
of vascular space invasion and extensive surface involvement
~Portion of appendix showing extensive tumor infiltration within
muscular propria, serosa and mesoappendiceal fat with
associated fibroadhesions
~No mucosal involvement of appendix noted
—Reactive mesothelial hyperplasia, and acute and chronic

10.

ll.

:ontinued

12.

13.

14.

15.

Page 2 of 6

inf lamat ion

PERITONEAL IMPLANT. BIOPSY: _
-Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

APPENDIX EPIPLOICA, EXCISION:
-Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma
-Associated mesothelial—lined fibroadipose tissue showing

mesothelial hyperplasia. acute and chronic inflammation and
focal fat necrosis

UTERUS. TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

—1=mdometrium:
~Inactive endometrium with eosinophilic metaplasia and
associated acute and chronic inflamation ( see cement)
-3ndoostrial polyp with associated intraluminal and stromal
histiocytes
-Aggregates of stromal histiocytes

-Cervix:
-Chronic cervicitis with squamous metaplasia and stromal
calcifications

-Myometrium:
-Leicmyoma with focal calcification. 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension

-Serosa:
-thensive anterior and posterior serosal involvement by
papillary serous carcinoma with tumor-associated
granulomatous inflamation with multinucleated giant cells

ASCENDING COLON. BIOPSY:

distastatic papillary serous carcinoma

-Associated mesothelial-lined fibrovascular. fibromuscular and
fibroadipose tissue with foci of chronic inflammation

TRANSVBRSE COLON. BIOPSY:

—Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

~Associated mesothelial-lined fibrous connective and adipose
tissue with chronic inflammation and reactive mesothelial
hyperplasia

RIGHT PERIAORTIC MODE. BIOPSY:

metastatic papillary serous carcinoma present in one out of one
(1/1) lymph node

RIGHT pevac tms nous. BIOPSY: "

—Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma present in two out of
three lymph nodes (2/3)
-Extracapsular vascular space invasion noted

on next page)U

‘ U Page: .1
LEFT PEINIC LYMPH NODE. BIOPSI:

-Metastatic papillary serous carcinana present in one out of one
lysph node (1/1)

RIGHT SIDE WALL, BIOPSY:
-Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

RIGHT GUTTER. BIOPSY:

-Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

dissociated fibrovascular connective tissue. fibromuscular and
fibroadipose tissue with extensive vascular space invasion and
chronic inflanmation

HEPATIC FLEXURB , BIOPSY :

Page 3 of 6

-Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

16. COLON FLBXURE. BIOPSY:
-Metastatio papillary serous carcinoma

17. MESENTERIC WHOR. BIOPSY:
Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma

18. APPENDIX. APPENDECTOMY:
—Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma infiltrating muscularis
propria, across and mesoappendiceal fat
-No mucosal or suhnucosal tumor involvement present

19. UHBILICAL MODULE. EXCISION:
-uetastatic papillary serous carcinoma with tumor-associated

prominent granulomatous inflammation. and multinucleated giant
cell reaction

20. INTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. BIOPSY:
-Hetastatic papillary serous carcinoma
~Tumor infiltrates fibrovascular connective and adipose tissue
with associated reactive nesothelial hyperplasia and chronic
inflammation

21. INGUINAL UMP}! RODS. BIOPSY:
dragmmts of papillary serous carcinoma with tumor-associated
granulcnatous and chronic inflarnation

comm: has reviewed slide (P) and concurs with the
diagnosis. Based on the material examined this patient is Stage IIIC
T3c N1 xx. '

 

 

======I=S=SIIIIISII'alB-E:
HIS'IORY: Pelvic mass

MICROSCOPIC:

See Diagnosis.

on.

GROSS:

1: mm m3

Labeled 'onsntum tumor'. received fresh in the Operating Room for

frozen section microscopy and subsequently fixed in formalin. is a

5.4 x 3.6 x 1.2 cm portion of indurated tan-yellow adipose tissue
ontinued on next page“: .1

which is almost entirely replaced by white firm tumor.
Representative sections are sunnitted.

Page: 4

A. Frozen section control #1
B. Formalin-fixed tissue - l

2: emu TUMOR

Labeled 'omental tumor' and received in formalin is a 28 x 7 x 2 cm
indurated and focally hemorrhagic portion of tan-yellow adipose
tissue which is almost entirely replaced by white firm tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.

C. 1

3: LEFT OVARYI’IUBB

Labeled 'left ovary/tube' and received in formalin is a

5.0 x 4.5 x 3.5 as previously incised ovoid tan white tumor mass.
The external surface is focally friable. on sectioning. the cut
surfaces are friable. tan-white and papillary. No normal ovarian
parenchyma is identified. On sectioning. a 3.5 on in length and 0.4
cm in diameter non—fimbriated segment of fallopian tube is

Page 4 of6

identified within this tumor mass. Representative sections are
submitted.

D,3. Tmnor mass — 1 each
P. Fallopian tube - 2
GG~II. Tumor mass - multiple

4: RIGHT OVARY/TUBE

Labeled 'right ovary/tube' and received in formalin is an ovoid 4.5
x 3.0 x 3.0 on previously incised tan white tumor mass. The external
surface is friable. On sectioning, cut surfaces are friable. tan-
white and papillary. No residual ovarian parenchyma is identified.
011 sectioning, there is a 4.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter
fimbriated segment of fallopian tube embedded within the tumor mass.
Representative sections are submitted.

6.1-1. Tuswr mass - 1 each
I. Fallopian tube - 2
33-00. Tumor mass - 1 each

5 2 PERITONIAL IMPLANT

Labeled 'peritoneal implant' and received in formalin is a 0.9 x 0.5
x 0.4 cm friable pink-white tissue fragment. Entirely submitted.

0‘. 1

6: APPENDIX BPIPLOICA
Labeled "appendix epiploica' and received in formaan is a 2.3 x 2.1

x 0.8 cm portion of tan indurated adipose tissue. Representative
sections are submitted.

K. 2

7: treats ‘

Labeled 'uterus'. received fresh in the Operating Room and

subsequently fixed in formalin, is a 50 gram uterus and cervix

without attached adnexa. The uterus is 6.2 cm from fundus to
ontinued on next page”:

. Page: 5
ectocervix. 5.5 an cornu to cornu, and 3.1 an anterior to posterior.
The serosa is diffusely roughened. tan-red with abundant adhesions
and hemorrhage. The cervix is 2.3 cm in length and 1.4 cm in
diameter with a 0.4 on patent os. The transformation zone is
distinct. The endocervical canal is 1.2 cm in length and is ten and
rugose without obvious lesion. The endometrial cavity is 3.1 cm in
length and 2.3 cm in diameter with a smooth. tan-red endometrium
which displays a 0.1 on average thickness. The myometrium measures
up to 1.3 cm in thickness and contains a 1.2 cm in greatest diameter
firm. tan-white, whorled intramural leiomyoma. On sectioning the
leiomyoma, no areas of hmorrhage. necrosis or calcifications are
identified. Also‘received is a separate 2.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm focally
cauterized portion of smooth. tan—pink ectocervix
Representative sections.

L. Frozen section control a: - 1

M. Anterior uterine corpus - 1

Anterior cervix - 1

Leicmyoma - 1

Posterior uterine corpus - 1
Posterior cervix — 1

Additional fragment of ectocervix - 2

wos9s

8 ' ASCBIDING COLON

Labeled 'ascending colon' and received in formalin is a 2.1 x 1.1 x
0.8 on firm tan-pink tissue fragment which, on sectioning. displays
abundant fim white tumor. Representative section.

,. .. PageSof6

e

9: TRANSVBRSB COLON
Labeled 'transverse colon“ and received in formalin is a 1.7 x 1.2 x
0.8 cm indurated tan-red tissue fragment which. on sectioning,
displays abundant firm white tumor. Representative section.

‘1‘. 1

10: RIGHT PERIAORTIC NOD!
Labeled 'right periaortic node' and received in formalin is a 3.6 x

1.7 x 1.2 cm markedly enlarged lymph node which is entirely replaced
by firm white tumor. Representative section.

U. 1

ll: RIGHT PELVIC mos

Labeled 'right pelvic node' and received in formalin are three firm
tan-red lymh nodes ranging from 1.2 to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension.
On sectioning. two lymph nodes display foci of firm white tumor.
Representative sections are sulmitted.

V. 3

12: LEFT FELVIC NOD:

Labeled 'left pelvic node' and received in formalin is a 2.7 x 2.1 x
1.4 cm friable pink-white lymph node which is almost entirely
replaced by friable white tumor. Representative section.

e' \

W.. 1

:c}; med on next page)EJ

. Page: 6
13: more SIDS WALL

Labeled 'right side wall' and received in formalin is a 2.5 x 1.3 x
0.8 cm indurated tan-pink tissue fragment which, on sectioning. is
almost entirely replaced by firm white tumor. Representative
sections are submitted.

1:. 1

14: RIGHT GWI‘ER BIOPSY

Labeled 'right gutter biopsy' and received in formalin is a 2.3 x 1.3
x 0.6 on firm tan-red tissue fragment which. on sectioning. displays
a homogeneous tan-pink cut surface. Entirely suhnitted.

Y. 3

15: HEPATIC FLBXURB
Labeled 'hepatic flemare‘I and received in formalin is a 6.3 x 3.2 x
1.1 cm indurated tan-red fibrous tissue fragment which. on

sectioning. displays focal areas of firm white tumor. Representative
section.

2. l

16: COLON nexus:
Labeled “colon flexure' and received in formalin is a 1.6 x 0.8 x 0.7

on firm tan-red tissue fragment which. on sectioning. displays
abundant firm white tumor. Representative section.

M.l

l7 : MESENTERIC TUMOR

.‘ . Page 6 of 6

Labeled 'mesenteric tumor' and received in formalin is a 5.5 x 5.0 x
1.6 cm portion of diffusely indurated adipose tissue. On sectioning,
the cut surfaces are almost entirely replaced by firm white tumor.
Representative section. ‘

33.1

18: APPRWDIX

Labeled 'appendix' and received in formalin is a 4.3 x 2.6 x 2.4 cm
portion of indurated tan-red shaggy tissue. On sectioning, a 1.6 cm
in length. 1.5 m in diameter appendix is identified with a 0.1 cm
appendiceal lumen. The appendix is entirely surrounded by firm
white tumor. Representative section.

CC.1

19: (MILICAL HOME

Labeled 'umbilical nodule' and received in fomlin is a 3.5 x 1.6 x
1.2 on indurated portion of firm pink-white fibrous tissue and yellow
lobulated adipose tissue. On sectioning, there is partial
replacement by firm pink-white tumor. Representative section.

DD. 1

20: mos ABDOMINAL WALL
Labeled 'anterior abdominal wall' and received in formalin is a 1.3 x
0.8 x 0.6 on firm tan-pink tissue fragment. On sectioning. abundant

ontinued on next pagan]

awe»,

" ‘1 Page: 7
firm. white tumor is identiueu. Representative section. '

23.1

21: IWINAL LYMPH NOD!

Labeled 'inguinal lymph node’ and received in formalin is a 2.3 x 0.6
x 0.3 cm friable pink-white tissue fragment. No obvious lymph node
parenchyma is identified. Entirely submitted.

PF. 1
Gross dictated by .

01’me CONSULT (FROZEN) :
PSOl. Onerxtum tumor:

-Papillary adenocarcinoma
is”. Uterus:

~No carcinoma identified

Special Studies: Frozen Section
SMOKED Code: T~ 87000, 14-84413
See Also: None

Pathologist
I. . . the pathologist of record. have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Pinalled:

