uuxu:A£soe4D1—5443.4A32-9e71-4531957751£o
TceA-qR-A7es-e1 -

A PR Redacted
illllIlllllllllIlllllilillllllillllillllllilillllllIlilllllllllllll
IllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
illIIIIIIIIIIIIllllillllillIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINmm

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology;
Surgical Pathology

CASE NUMBER:
DIAGNOSIS:

1. inferior margin, IFS: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.
2. Interior margin #2, 2FS: Lymph node, no tumor seen.

3. Lateral margin, 8FS; Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.
4. Medial margin. 4FS: Flbroadiposs tissue, no tumor seen.

5. Soft tissue, right thoracic, paraganglioma, resection:
Extra-adrenaltheochromocyﬁtomagparaganglioma): Two lymph nodes,
no tumor seen; Margins oi resection 'éré’ffeebflhmor (see note}?

NOTE: lmmunohlstochemlcal studies demonstrate tumor cells staining
positively for chromogranin and synaptophysin. highlights
sustentacular cells.

Immunoperoxidase and in~situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL lNFORMATlON: Brief Clinical History: year old female with
right thoracic paraganglioma. ‘

Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes.

Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: right thoracic paraganglioma.
Post-Operative Diagnosis: right thoracic paraganglioma.

Operative Findings: Right paraspinal lesion.

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: l. ROUTINE + 5FR.SLlDES, inferior margin r/o
paraganglioma (1F 8)

2. ROUTINE + 4FR.SLIDES, Interior margin #2 #0 paraganglioma (ZFS)
3. ROUTlNE + 4FR.SL|DES, Lateral margin (3FS)

4. ROUTINE + 3FR.SLIDES, Medial margin (4FS)

5. SOFT TISSUE MASS, Right thoracic paraganglioma
lNTRAOPERATlVE CONSULTATION:

iFS: ”Inferior margin rule out paraganglioma“

iFS diagnosis: Fibroadlpose tissue, negative for tumor.

Requested By:

Final Result—SI
F lnal

{oniidchﬁhi Prism irritzi‘niéillon. i.‘::;zint?‘ss.:rizc:i :il..u.:;’z‘~sli;c ix girrleliiicii 11-min: i’rvlitréil f“!‘l‘\¢}\“r"(f{ oi 2975.

Do not tile in Medical Record

 

 

W

 

W Suggical Pathm

ZFS: "inferior margin #2 rule out paraganglloma"
ZFS diagnosis: Lymph node, no tumor seen.

SFS: "Lateralmargin"
SFS diagnosis: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

4FS: "Medial margin"
4FS diagnosis: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

The above results were communicated to the Surgical Team by

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received fresh are 5 Separate specimens labeled ‘

with the patient‘s name, medical record number, date of birth, and
- further specified‘as-follows-z- -—-~ ~« ‘—‘ - -- -- ~ —

1. ”inferior margin rule out paraganglioma“ consisting of a ﬁbrous
tan—red soft tissue fragment measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm which is
frozen in total as Received in Surgical Pathology is a
specimen matching the above description. It consists of a green
cassette labeled ” ‘, the contents of which are entirely
transferred to an orange cassette labeled -

2. "Inferior margin #2 rule out paraganglioma" consisting of a
fibrous red-tan soft tissue fragment measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm
which is frozen in total as . Received in Surgical Pathology
is a specimen matching the above description. It consists of a
green cassette labeled ' ’ ", the contents of which are
entirely transferred to an orange cassette labeled

3. "Lateral margin" consisting of a pinkvtan soft tissue fragment
measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm which is frozen in total as 3FS.
Received in Surgical Pathology is a specimen matching the above
description. It consists of a green cassette labeled‘

the contents of which are entirely transferred to an orange
cassette labeled ,

4. "Medial margin" consisting of a pink-tan soft tissue fragment
measuring 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm which is frozen in total as 4FS.
Received in Surgical Pathology is a specimen that matches the
above description. it consists of a green cassette labeled

, the contents of which are entirely transferred to
an orange cassette labeled

5. "Right thoracic paraganglioma“ consisting of an oriented tan~pink

soft tissue fragment measuring 9.0 x 6.0 x 2.6 cm. In the OR,
oriented the specimen and inked the deep margin black.

the deep margin abuts the spine. removed a portion of
the lateral margin and medial margin and submitted them for frozen
section diagnosis (see specimens BFS and 4FS). There is a central
palpable nodule measuring 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm. The nodule is inked
revealing a heterogeneous yellow-pink and orange cut surface.

t. onlhiciniui i‘lticnt inl‘oirneiiixm. Unauthorized rlriclosnrt‘ ;.; pri‘hzbitvd 3,15: the it.

Requested By:

Final Results]

innit? |>I‘}'-‘:I\. 9 Act or“ Wit, 30le
Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

“.4

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology [

Final Results]

 

Gross photographs are taken. Approximately 50% of tissue from the
center of the nodule is procured for i by
Post procurement, the specimen is inked as
follows: Superior margin in blue, interior margin in yellow,
medial margin in green, lateral margin is orange, and anterior
margin is red. The remainder of the specimen is placed into
formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. The
procurement was documented and performed by 'on
Received in Surgical Pathology is a specimen matching
the above description. A representative section of the nodule
with respect to the anterior, medial, and deep margins is
submitted in cassette labeled ‘. A representative
section of the nodule with respect to the anterior, lateral. and
deep margin is submitted in cassette labeled . The
nodule is located approximately 0.8 cm from the superior margin.
.._ - The- superior-margin—issubmitteden faceln cassette-labeled
“ The tumor grossly appears to abut the inferior
margin. A representative section of the nodule with respect to
the inferior margin is submitted in cassette labeled
The medial margin is submitted en face in cassette labeled
. Additional representative sections of the nodule
are submitted in cassettes labeled The remaining
tissue is returned to formalin.

Gross Description dictated by

Accessioned:
Final Report Signed Out:

<Resldent Sinnefnm>

<Sign Out Dr. Sinnature)

Date Report Signed:

   
 

lPAA
rior

 
 
 

as: is

 
   
 

reviewer ii

 

perchlorate: linden! imprison-in. linzruii‘aoiinsd :list‘instlhc i t:;\’>ltéi;~l€t‘(i in tilt" l‘l‘tELLEIl lli'l\’i‘.\i"xj‘~.iii<ll‘ lain

 

Requested By: l )

Do not: ﬁle in Medical Record

