MRN:
PHN:
ACB:
DOB'lGender:

Telephone:
Encounter:

 

Locaﬁon:
Ordering;

 

Surgical Pathology Report __

--nnn.n,\..,. _._-

 

;
-._____n.

 

 

 

 

Accession Number:
Collected Date: . Received Datel‘l‘ime: .
Pathologist:
leer—13-3121

Specimen Descriﬁtion

A. Liver biopsy at

B. Gallbladder at -

C. Portal lymph nodes at.

D. Whipple's specimen at

Clinical Information

Hx: Suspicion of pancreatic adenocarcinoma
infectious patient: No

Immunocompromised: No
History of neoplasm: No

 

 

Diagnosis

A: Liver Biopsy:
- Benign bile duct hamartoma
— Negative for malignancy

B: Galibiadder, Cholecystectomy:
.. Chronic cholecystitis, negative for atypia
— Congested cystic duct lymph node, negative for malignancy

C: Portal Lymph Nodes:
- Reactive changes, negative for malignancy

 

Cc:

Chart Request ID’. Pathology: Provider - Permanent

k Page 1 0f 5

   

 

MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date:
Pathologist: i

D: Head of Pancreas (Whipple's Resection):

- Invasive duct carcinoma of the pancreas, with focal extension to
uncinate process margin

- Uiceration of the distal common bile duct and ampulla, with
carcinoma invading through duodenal muscularis propria at the
level of the ampulla

- Metastatic pancreatic carcinoma in three of 24 peripancreatic lymph
nodes

Reported by: ‘

Electronically signed by:

 

Synoptic Report

D: Pancreas (Exocrine), Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Ductal adenocarclnoma
HESTOLOGIC GRADE:
G2: Moderately differentiated
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor invades ampulla of Vater or sphincter of Oddi
Tumor invades peripancreatlc soft tissues
MARGINS:
Margin(s) involved by Invasive carcinoma
Uncinate process (retroperitoneai) margin (nonperitonealized surface of the uncinate process)
TREATMENT EFFECT (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
Not known
LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION:
Not identified
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Not identified
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
Cc:

Chart Request ID: _ Pathology: Provider - Permanent
PrInt DateiTime: . Page 2 of 5

 

 

MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

Surgical Pathology R6991! ‘ _

 

lnquli.

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date:
Pathologist: ' I

pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric
artery ~ ' -
REGlONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pN‘i: Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 24
Number Involved: 3
DISTANT METASTASlS (pM):
Not applicable

Gross Description

Received are specimens A to D. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name
The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number

A. The s set consists of a liver biopsy which measures 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. All tissue is submitted for QSvin one
block. H

B. The specimen consists of an unopened gallbladder measuring 9.5 cm in length and up to 2.5 cm in transverse
diameter. The outer surface is unremarkable. Sectioning reveals pale green mucoid contents containing small flecks of
yellow calculous debris measuring up to 0.2 cm in size. The mucosa is smooth and velvety. A cystic duct lymph node,
1.2 cm in greatest dimension, is present at the neck of the gallbladder. Representative sections of the neck, body and

fundus are submitted in Bl . The cystic duct lymph node is submitted In B2. _

C. The specimen consists of three fragments of tissue measuring 3.7 cm, 3.0 cm, and 0.9 cm in greatest dimension
respectively. The largest fragment appears to consist of adipose tissue only and no lymph node is recognizablejwo
representative sections are submitted in 01 . The second largest fragment consists entirely of a ﬁrm yellOW'ly'm'ph node—
Iike sample. Two sections are submitted in 02 and 03. The smallest fragment is submitted in C4 in its entirety. '

D. The specimen consists of a pancreaticoduodenectomy specimen in which the distal stomach to distal duodenal
resection margin distance is 23.0 cm. The attached head of pancreas measures approximately 8.0 x 5.0 x 6.0 cm. A
region of the ampulla is distorted by what appears to be a zone of ulceration into an underlying mass in the head of the
pancreas. The distal common bile duct opens at this area and appears to be up to 1.3 cm in diameter. The duodenal wait
around this area appears congested and indurated. Sectioning of the head of the pancreas shows a hard tumor mass
surrounding the common bile duct and measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x approximately 4.0 cm. The carcinoma lies close to the
uncinate process but also appears to encroach on the posterior surgical margin adjacent to the duodenum; this latter area

is painted orange. The unclnate process margin is painted blue.

Sections are taken as follows:

 

(\n.
‘ .' Anni:

Pathology: Provider :QIPermanent
Page 3 of 5

 

MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

Surgical Pathology Report
Inquiry Number j

 

 

 

l

Accession Number:

Collected Date: 7 i
Pathologist:

Di - proximal bile duct margin.

D2 — pancreatic neck resection margin.

D3 — distal duodenal margin, en face.

D4 and D5 — ampulla edge (D5 with posterior margin).

D6 and D7 - indurated posterior margin.

D8 through 012 - tumor with uncinate margin.

D13 — tumor in relation to overlying duodenum.

D14 - tumor in relation to overlying proximal duodenal mucosa.
D15 - proximal, gastric resection margin.

D16 and D17 — six possible lymph nodes from distal lesser curve.
018 — three possible lymph nodes in pancreaticoduodenal chain.
019 through D21 ~ i1 possible lymph nodes at the inferior aspect of the head of pancreas.

Frozen Section Diagnogis
A. Liver Biopsy:
- Bile duct hamartoma.
- Negative for malignancy. ”

Reported by'

Microscopic Description
A: Sections after routine processing confirm the frozen section diagnosis. A small cluster of bile ducts form a localized
nodule with no cytologic atypia. - - ‘ ,

B: Sections show mild chronic cholecystitis, but no cytologic atypia. The cystic duct lymph node is congested, but no sign
of malignancy is present.

0: Fragments of adipose tissue include small nerve trunks. The large lymph node—like fragment is comprised of lymph
nodes showing focal lipogranulomatosis. No sign of metastatic disease is present. _ .

D: The head of pancreas is largely replaced by an invasive moderately differentiated pancreatic duct carcinoma. The
tumor shows varying growth patterns ranging from well defined glandular spaces through to irregular tongues and islands
of carcinoma with prominent nuclear pleomorphlsm. Many areas show clear cytoplasm consistent with mucinous
differentiation. The carcinoma invades to the zone of the ampulla where the surface of the bile duct is large eroded and

 

Cc:

'- Chart Request IF ' . _ Pathology: Provider — Permanent
Page 4 of 5

    

 

MRN: ' l' .‘I.’
PHN:
ACB:

 

 

iical Patholouv Report
inquiry Numbe -,

I

Accession Number:

Collected Date: - T
Pathologist:

replaced by granulation tissue. The carcinoma elements extend through the muscularis propria of the duodenum at the
level of the ampulla. Carcinoma focally extends to the uncinate process margin, but does not directly involve the posterior
soft tissue margin. Carcinoma focally extends beyond the confines of the pancreas into peripancrsatic adipose tissue.
Adjacent pancreatic parenchyma shows prominent inflammation and fibrosis. The en face section of the neck of the
pancreas is negative as is the proximal bile duct margin. Eight lymph nodes are incorporated in the sections of pancreas,
one of which shows metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. There are 16 lymph nodes dissected from the peripancreatic
fatty tissue with metastatic duct carcinoma in two, one of which is in the pancreatico-duodenal zone and one in a lymph
node along inferior margin. ' ‘ ‘ ‘ "

 

Cc:

Pathology: Provider v Permanent
Page 5 of 5

 

 

