 

 

ADDENDUM REPORT

This addendum is issued to reflect a discussion with the surgeon” about the specimen.
Initially, there was though to be renal cell ‘ at the renal as it appeared to bulge out
of the vein. However, in discussion with Wgrossly and clinically the carcinoma appears to be

well free of the surgical margin. Sometimes in fixation and manipulation of the specimen the vein can
retract leading to the appearance of tumor at the margin. Given the discussion and initial findings in this

case| this aiiears to be the case here. Therefore, this is interpreted as no positivity at the vein margin.

ADDENDUM DIAGNOSIS:

RIGHT KIDNEY, RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY WITH PARTIAL ADRENAL GLAND EXCISION
- Invasive conventional clear cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 3.
- Tumor invasion into renal vein, renal vein margin negative for tumor.
- Beni n adrenal gland.

    
   

SPECIMEN
A. KIDNEY - 1. Right kidney

CLINICAL INFORMATION
Renal cell carcinoma, right renal thrombus

Received in formalin IabelecFight kidney" is a 522 gm, 18 x 11 x 5 cm specimen which
includes a 12.5 x 7 x 4 cm k1 ney an surroun ing soft yellow fatty perinephric fat. The specimen was
previously opened for the Genome study. A portion of adrenal gland is seen in the perinephric fatjust
superior to the renal vein and is 1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The adrenal gland is grossly uninvolved by tumor. The

 

 

  

 

perinephric fat and surgical margin are inked in black, and the ureteral. renal artery, and renal vein
margins are taken. The ureter and renal artery are grossly uninvolved by tumor. The renal vein has
tumor bulging out of the vein at the resection margin. Hilar lymph nodes are not identified. The
previously bivalved kidney shows an orange, Iobular well~circumscribed tumor which is 8 x 5 x 3.8 cm.
The tumor grossly invades into the pelvis and is located predominantly in the inferior pole of the kidney.
The remainder of the kidney is tan with a normal corticomedullaryjunction.

SLIDE KEY:

A1 — renal artery, and renal vein margins

A2 — additional section of renal vein with tumor at the margin
A3 — tumor invading the pelvis

A4 - tumor adjacent to normal kidney

A5 -— normal kidney

A6 — tumor adjacent to renal vein tributary

A7 — tumor

A8 — tumor adjacent to closest inked perinephric fat margin
A9 — adrenal gland and adjacent kidney

A10 - ureter margin

A11-12 — additional sections of tumor

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Surgical Pathology Cancer Case Summary, Kidney

SPECIMEN TYPE: Right nephrectomy with partial resection of adrenal gland.

TUMOR SITE: Inferior pole.

TUMOR SIZE: 8 x 5 x 3.8 cm.

MACROSCOPIC EXTENT OF TUMOR: Limited to kidney.

HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Conventional clear cell renal cell carcinoma. The possibility of a chromophobe
carcinoma was considered; therefore, a Hale’s colloidal iron stain and immunostains were
performed with appropriately reactive controls. The Hale’s colloidal iron showed positivity in
approximately 5% of the tumor cells. The tumor cells were negative for E—cadherin, CD117, and
CK7. There is positivity with vimentin and CD10. The immunohistochemical profile and relative
lack of significant positivity with Hale’s colloidal iron is consistent with a conventional renal cell

_ carcinoma. -

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: Grade 3. Nuclei are irregular, approximately 20 microns; nucleoli are large and
prominent. Most of the tumor shows grade 2 nuclei; however, in several areas, entire fields show
Fuhrman grade 3 nuclei.

EXTENT OF INVASION: T3a, tumor grossly extends into renal vein margins. There is no tumor at the
soft tissue margins, ureteral, or arterial margin. However, tumor does appear to be present at the
renal vein margin.

BLOOD/LYMPHATIC VESSEL INVASION: Absent.

ADRENAL GLAND: Uninvolved by tumor.

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES: None identified.

SIS: MX, cannot be assessed.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

 

 

 

RIGHT KIDNEY, RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY WITH PARTIAL ADRENAL GLAND EXCISION
- Invasive conventional clear cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 3.
— Tumor invasion into renal vein with positivity at vein margin.
- Benign adrenal gland.
- Please see cancer case summary.

CPT CODES: 88307, 88313, 88342X5

 

 

 

