        

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. -B.) RIGHT FRONTAL LOBE OF BRAIN, TUMOR RESECTION:
— ANAPLASTIC OLIGOASTROCYTOMA (WHO GRADE Ill).
- SEE COMMENT.

COMMENT: This case was submitted for consultation to the Department of

Neuropathology at NF
where it was reviewed by. he diagnosis rendered at

_ is reflected above. The tumor was found to have intact 1 and 19q. See
separate neuropathology consultation report from The

preliminary pathology ﬁndings were discussed witt-

     

 

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Right Frontal Mass/Tumor

B. Right Frontal Tumor

Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Right frontal intracerebral mass

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
A. FSA: Gliosis vs low grade glioma: no evidence of high grade glial neoplasm identiﬁed. I

Performed at

Gross Description:

A. Part A designated right frontal mass/tumor. Received in a fresh state for frozen section analysis is a 1.8
x 1.3 x 0.9 cm single light gray fragment of delicate soft tissue. A representative section is submitted for
' ‘ ' ' ‘ are forwarded f r stainin followed b

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

microscopic evaluation. The residual frozen tissue submitted in A1 for ermanent sections, and the
remainder of the soft tissue is submitted in A2 for routine histologyi

B. Part B is right frontal tumor. Initially received in a fresh state for tumor bank studies. are multiple
fragments ofdelicate light gray and ﬂeshy pink-gray soft tissue, measuring in aggregate of 36 grams and
7.2 x 6.8 x 2.4 cm. The surfaces of the larger intact pieces, demonstrate translucent. slightly hyperemic
meninges. Upon sectioning the gray matter is partially well delineated and serpiginous, however, it is
obscured in several of the fragments, grossly attributed to a ﬂeshy, pink-gray mass lesion. Portions of
grossly viable tumor are submitted for tumor bank studies. Representative sections are submitted for
microscopic evaluation in 81-810 (nineteen pieces). (IJ) Following initial microscopic evaluation the
remainder of the brain tissue is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in 811-824.

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

8. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

 

