  
 
 

     
 

Accession Number: m Report Status:
Type: Surgical Pathology

Specimen Type:‘ ' ' l resection
M .cGA—cz—547n

‘Amend/Addenda

Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

  

CASE:
'PA‘I‘IENT: ‘

    
   
  

*i‘k‘kicii‘iriti‘

Resident:
Pathologis

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED “LEFT KIDNEY":
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA (7.1 cm), clear 1, Fuhrman nuclear grade III/IV,

arising in the lower pole with a region of oncocytoma—like architecture.
.Tumor is confined to the kidney.
Soft tiesue resection margins are negative for tumor.
Artery, vein, and ureter margins are negative for tumor.

No lymphovascular invasion is seen.
The non—neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the

findings will be reported in an addendum.

NOTE: Dr.—Pathology Service, has reviewed this part of the
case and concurs.

B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "LEFT ADRENAL":
Adrenal cortical adenoma (2.0 cm), with myolipomatous metaplasia, mucin,
and vascular sclerosis.
Adrenal cortical medullary multinodular hyperplasia.
No necrosis.
No atypia.
Mitoses number <l:lO HPF.

NOTE: — Endocrine Pathology Service, has reviewed the case and
concurs. -

C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "REGIONAL LY-MPH NODES":
Two lymph nodes,’negative for tumor (0:2).

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Not provided.

Operation: Left nephrectomy.
Operative Findings: Not provided.
Clinical Diagnosis: Not provided.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/1. Left kidney.
B/2. Left adrenal.
C/3. Regional lymph node.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in three parts, each labeled with the patient's

name and unit number.

Part A, "left kidney“, consists of a radical nephrectomy specimen (416 g)
including a kidney (15.3 x 7.5 x 5.5 cm) with a bifurcated renal vein (1.8 cm
length x 0.5 and 1.0 cm diameter), a renal artery (2.8 cm length x 0.5 cm
diameter), and two ureters (7.8 cm length x 0.3 cm diameter and 8.0 cm length x
0.3 cm diameter). Gerota's fascia is intact and is inked black. A tan/red,
cystic, hemorrhagic, encapsulated mass (7.1 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm) is located in the
loWer pole, 0.1 cm from Gerota's fascia, 4.2 cm from the artery margin, 4.5 cm
from the vein margin, and 9.5 cm from the closest ureter margin. Within the
mass, there is a region of tan/white, homogeneous tumor (1.8 cm greatest

Page:l of3

 

 

'\

 

 

The remainder of the mass is designated Tl.
Representative sections of the mass are submitted for cytogenetics, quick fix,

dimension) that is designated T2.

tissue banking, and to Dr. Signoretti‘s lab. Representative sections of
nonneoplastic kidney are submitted to the tissue bank and put on hold for
immunofluorescence and electron micrdscopy. No lymph nodes are identified. No
adrenal tissue is identified. Gross photographs are taken.

~ a
'Micro A1: Ureter, artery, vein margins, en face 4 frags, -
Micro A2: Mass, T1 with respect to T2, 1 frag,
Micro A3: Mass with respect to kidney parenchyma to include T1 and T2, 1 frag,

Micro A4: Mass with respect to fascia, l frag,
Micro A5: Nonneoplastic kidney cortex, 1 frag,

Part B, "#2. Left adrenal”, consists of an adrenal gland (15.58 g, 6.2 x 4.3 x
1.5 cm) with attached adipose tiesue. The cortex is expanded (up to 1.7 cm)
.and has a yellow/tan, circumscribed region (1.4 x 1.2 x 1.1 cm). A gross
photograph is taken. The outer surface of the specimen is selectively inked
,black near the expanded region. The entire specimen is submitted for

histologic examination.

Micro Bl—BZ: Winery cavity, greatest dimension, submitted in two cassettes,

l frag each,
Micro B37B4: Remainder expanded medulla, 1 frag each,

a'Micro B5-B8: Remainder of adrenal gland, 2-3 frags ea
Micro BQHBlO: Remainder of specimen, multi frags each

Part C, "#3. Regional lymph node", consists of two fragments of yellow/tan
fibroadipose tissue (2.0 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm aggregate} with two smooth, brown/tan
lymph nodes (0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm and 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm}. The entire specimen
is submitted for histologic examination.

Midro C1: 2 frags, -

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)

related thereto.

 

ADDENDUM:
RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF THE KIDNEY PARENCHYMA:

LEFT KIDNEY (RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY}

GLOMERULOPATHY WITH A MEMBRANOUS PATTERN OF INJURY, WITH NUMEROUS
SUBEPITHELIAL ELECTRON DENSE DEPOSITS BY ULTRASTRUCTURAL ANALYSIS;
THE DEPOSITS SHOW A RESTRICTED IMMUNOREACTIVITY FOR IgG/KAPPA,
SUGGESTIVE OF A PARAPROTEIN DEPOSITION DISEASE (SEE NOTE)

MODERATE CHRONIC CHANGES OF THE PARENCHYMA, INCLUDING:
— FOCAL GLOBAL GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS {15% OF GLOMERULI)
- FOCAL TUBULAR ATROPHY AND INTERSTITIAL FIBROSIS (20% OF THE PARENCHYMA)

F ARTERIAL AND ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS, MODERATE

NOTE:
The changes seen in the parenchyma suggest a membranous pattern of injury with

 

Page:20f3

 

 

 

an unusual immunoreactivity of these deposits. The deposits are localized and
distributed along the glomerular capillary wall resembling a membranous
glomerulopathy, however, the restricted immunoreactivity of the deposits is
very unusual and would suggest a paraprotein deposition disease of the
IgG/kappa type. It would therefore be prudent to test for circulating
paraproteins in this patient. The possibility of a membranous glomerulopathy
‘with an unusual and restricted immunoreactivity of the deposits cannot be ruled
out with certainty, however, the diagnosis of idiopathic or tumor—associated
membranous glomerulopathy should only be considered in this patient if
circulating paraproteins and a plasma cell dyscrasia or other B cell
lymphoproliferative disorders have been ruled out.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The sample consists of renal cortex and medulla not involved by the tumor.

There are more than 200 glomeruli present in the sample submitted for
evaluation. About 15% of the glomeruli are globally obsolescent (sclerosed).
‘The preserved glomeruli show normal cellularity, without signs of inflammation,
fibrinoid necrosis, or sclerosis. The peripheral capillary walls reveal
thickened basement membranes, with fine "spike"~like projections and numerous
diffusely distributed "crater—like" defects visible in the basement membranes
in the Jones silver stain. Tubules show normal cellular details. There are
isolated, PAS—positive casts present in Some distal tubules. Focal tubular
atrophy is seen in areas of interstitial fibrosis. Significant interstitial
inflammation is not evident in the sample examined. ApprOximately 20% of the
tissue included in this biopsy shows tubular atrophy, mild mononuclear cell
inflammation, and interstitial fibrosis, as evidenced on the trichrome stains
(AFOG). Arteries show moderate sclerosis of the media, with focal replacement
of smooth muscle cells by connective tissue. Arterioles reveal subintimal

hyaline accumulation.

.IMMUNOFL E E MICROSCOPY REPORT:
KIDNEY

The sections were incubated with antibodies specific for the heavy chains of
IgG, IgA, and IgM, for kappa light chains, lambda light chains, CB, Clq,
albumin, and fibrin—related antigens.

The sample consists of kidney cortex. There are 68 glomeruli present. Eleven
(11) glomeruli are globally sclerosed and one (1) glomerulus shows segmental
sclerosis. There is diffuse granular deposition of IgG (3+/4+) along the
peripheral glomerular capillary walls; these deposits are only reactive for
kappa and not lambda light chains. There is dull reactivity for fibrin present
along all glomerular capillary walls. Tubules contain reabsorbed proteins
(albumin, IgG, C3) in the form of cytoplasmic granules. The interstitium
reveals scattered fibrin deposits. Arterioles show focal CS reactivity. There
'is no difference noted in the intensity of the staining for kappa and lambda
light Chains in the casts in the background of the tissue.

ELECTRO Y REPORT:

KIDNEY
Blocks: 6) Blocks examined: 4 thick sections; 1 thin section.

The tissue examined at the ultrastructural level includes two glomeruli. The
glomerular capillary walls are greatly distorted by the presence of numerous
subepithelial electron dense deposits and thickening of the basement membranes.
The deposits are sparsely distributed and they appear to have been incorporated
into the outer aspect of the thickened basement membranes. The electron dense
depoeits are finely granular but they do not show organized substructures.
There is extensive effacement of visceral epithelial cell foot processes
present and microvillous degeneration of the epithelial cell membrane.
Glomerular endothelial cells appear unremarkable and do not contain
tubuloreticular structures. Subendothelial electron dense deposits are not
seen. The mesangium shows normal cell elements and an extracellular matrix

without electron dense deposits.

 

 

 

Report Status: Final

 

Accession Numberr .+;n:~n
Type: Cytogenetics

Specimen Type:
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provider:

 

KARYOTYPE: Tl: 46,xx,der(3,-5) (q10;q10) [103
'T2: 46,XX,der{3:5)(qlﬂ;q10){10]

METAPHASES COUNTED: 20 ANALYZED: 10 scores: 10 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

All metaphases for both specimens received contained der(3:5)(q10;q10), a
characteristic finding in renal cell carcinomas, clear cell type.

COMMENTS:
This analysis excludes mosaicism greater than 25% at a 95% confidence limit
(Prenatal Diagnosis—. Small chromosome anomalies may

not be detectable using the standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was
performed at a level of 400 bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
? RCC; kidney tumor; Two specimen were received, labeled #1 and #2.

 

 

Pago:lof1

 

