Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 4
I . Admit Date:
Gender: Male Birth Date Age:
Attending: Admit Protocol: Location:
Surgical Pathology Final ReauEl
Surgical Pathology Final -
CASE NUMBER:
DIAGNOSIS:

1.Prostate, left apex, margin, resection: Fibromuscular tissue and
vessel. No tumor seen.

2. Prostate, prostatectomy: Adenocarcinoma Gleason Score 8 (4+4)
involving 25% of the right and 10% of the left lobes. The tumor
has focal morphologlc features of prostatic duct carcinoma and
mixed with acinar and glandular areas. Perineural' Invasion is
present. No extracapsular or seminal vesicle Invasion is seen.

12236.3

Inked margins are negative for tumor.

3. Lymph nodes. anterior prostate fat, resection: Fibroadipose
tissue. No tumor seen.

4. Lymph nodes. obturator, left, resection: Lymph nodes (0/4). No

/ damn/L
5745/3

5,41,, W N32 q

Suﬁ 1/2/2123

tumor seen.

5. Lymph nodes. obturator. right, resection: Lymph nodes (0/8). No
tumor seen

uum: Assaaaaa- szuc- ~41AD- A169- 75206305254;
6. Prostate. adjacent to side of bladder, resection: Fibroadipose 1“" VN‘ABSQ ”91“ PR

issue. No tumor .9... III ll||||l|lll|lllll||IllllllfllllllllIllllllllllllllllilflrlllalilled
- » III I IIIIIIIIIIII lllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllll
““3 III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

CAP Cancer Protocol:
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy
Prostate Size:

Weight: 36.2 9
Size: 4.5 x 3.0 x 4.0 cm

Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph node dissection

Histologlc Type: Adenocarcinoma (acinar), Prostatic duct adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade:

Primary Pattern: Grade 4

Secondary Pattern: Grade 4
Total Gleason Score: 8

Tumor Quantitatlon: Proportion (percentage) of prostate involved by
tumor: 35%

Extraprostatic Extension: Not identified
Seminal Vesicle Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Conﬁdential Patient Information. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

Patient Results

 

 

Page 2 of 4

.' _ Admit Protocol:
Gender: Male . Birth Date: Age:

Admit Protocol: ' Admit Protocol: Location; I

 

 

Surgical PathologL

Treatment Effect on Carcinoma: Not identified

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Perineural Invasion: Present

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):

Primary Tumor (pT):
pT20: Bilateral disease

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 12
Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable '

Immunoperoxidase and In-situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the ' They have not been
cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval Is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical History: male with Gleason 8
PCa. Specimen Taken

For Protocol: Yes Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: uncomplicated R'ARP and PLND
Post-Operative

Diagnosis: same Pro—Operative Diagnosis: Prostate Cancer

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ROUTINE + 5FR.SLIDES, Left apex protate margin
(1 FS)

2. PROSTATE

3. LYMPH NODES, Fat over anterior prostate

4. OBTURATOR LYMPH NODE(S). Left

5. OBTURATOR LYMPH NODE(S). Right

6. PROSTATE, Adjacent to side side of bladder

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
"Left apex prostate margin"

1FS diagnosis: Smooth muscle tissue, blood vessel with small nerve.

No prostate or other epithelia. No tumor seen in the five sections
observed.

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received fresh from the labeled with the
patient's name the patient'smedioai record number

Final Results]

Conﬁdential Patient Iutbnnation. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.

Requested By:

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4
Admit Protocol: _
Gender: Male Birth Date: Age:
Admit Protocol: Admit Protocol: . Location:
F" Surgjcal PathologL __ . nnai ResulEI
the patient‘s date of birt‘ nd further
specified as: .

1. "Left apex prostate margin“ is a pink-red soft tissue fragment
measuring 0.2 cm In greatest dimension. It was frozen in total
for intraoperative consultation and then placed into a white
cassettelabeled as 1FS mm the patient’s name and sent to

for permanent processing. Received In
Is a container with a specimen matching the above
description. The entire contents were transferred from the green
cassette and transferred to an orange cassette labeled as
and submitted for permanent processing.

2. "Prostate" consists of a prostateotomy specimen weighing 36.2
grams with the following measurements:
Left to right: 4.5 cm
Anterior to posterior: 3.0 cm
Apex to base: 4.0 cm
Left seminal vesicle: '4.0 x1.1 x 0.5 cm
Left vas deferens: 4.2 x 0.5 cm
Right seminal vesicle: 4.2 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm
Right vas deferens: 6.6 x 0.6 cm

The prostate is inked as follows: Urethra in yellow, anterior
one-third In bladt, right posterior two thirds in blue. and left
posterior two thirds in red. Gross photographs are taken. One
out is made revealing a tan nodular cut surface and a hard
yellow-tan area In the apical periphery measuring 1.4 x 0.9 cm.
Approximately 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm of tissue from the right apical
peripheral. approximately 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm of tumor from the
right apical peripheral. approximately 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm of
normal -aooearing'prostatic tissue from the right mid are procured

for the by . The procurement was
documented/performed by and men.
at . Received in Is the

formalin-filled container with a specimen matching the above
description. The seminal vesicles and vas deferens are dissected
off the main prostate specimen. A whole mnIInt generated through
prior Imaging is brought to the 7 _ . The
prostate is placed in the whole mount. Serial sections are made
and are placed into white biopsy bags labeled -2F.
The vas deferens and seminal vesicles. left and right. are
sectioned and placed into white cassettes labeleo 2G
and‘2H. while the leftvas deferens and seminal vesicles are
serially sectioned and placed into white cassettes labeled

" and 2K, while the right seminal vesicle and vas
deferens are seriallv sectioned and placed Into white cassettes
labeled ‘

3. "Fat and lymph node over anterior prostate" is a soft irregular
yellow soft tissue fragment measuring 2.6 x 3.1 x 1.1 cm. The
specimen is examined for candidate lymph nodes and no candidate
lymph nodes are detected. The entirety of the remaining
fibrofatty tissue is entirelyplaoed into a white cassette labeled

Conﬁdential Patient Infonnation. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

Page 4 of 4

, Admit Protocol:
Gender: Male 1 Birth Date: Age:
Admit Protocol: ' Admit Protocol: Location:

 

 

 

F

Surgical Pathology

4. "Left obturator lymph node" is a yellow fatty soft tissue
fragment measuring 2.6 x 2.4 x 1.8 cm. The specimen is examined
for candidate lymph nodes and 2 candidate lymph nodes are ‘
identified. One measures 2.4 cm and the other is 1.0 'cm. They
are both placed into a white cassette labeled The
remaining ﬂbroadipose tissue is entirely placed into a white
cassette labeled

5. “Right obturator lymph node" is a soft and rubbery yellow fatty
tissue fragment measuring 6.4 x_ 5.5 x 2.4 cm. The specimen is
inked for candidate lymph nodes and 7 candidate lymph nodes are
identified. They range in size from 1.9 to 0.5 cm. Three of the
larger lvmph nodes are placed into a uhite cassette labeled

labeled

while the remainingare placed into a white cassette
The remaining flbroadipose tissue are

entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled

and 5E.

6. "Prostate adacent to right side of bladder" are 3 tan and brown
rubbery tissue fragments, irregular in shape, measuring 1.7 x 1.1
-x 0.6 cm, 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm, and 1.4 x 0.5 x 0.6 cm. The largest
fragment is bisected revealing a granular white firm cut surface.
The entiretv of the specimens are placed into a while cassette

labeled

All cassettes were submitted for'permanent processing.

Gross Description dictated by

No consultants

Accessioned:

Final Report Signed Out:

<Resident Signature>

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Data Report Signed:

Requested By: L

cmorSrta

Conﬁdential Patient Infomiatiou. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.

Final Results]

 

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

