UUID: 679E2EDC- A950- 4-9A4-
TCGA JW ASVG AACIRA- -9472CC83447eDd

iHilﬂHlHHlHlﬂl l
"H mum;mmu5'.Him?!""”""“""”"""""”'"

 

 

e u is llllHll
R 5 “SH my mNIHiHllliMHilillHlHill!llllifiiillliill'illllliinl'lilillllliil'iil
Results
History SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order
Result History

Result page and Time Status Prlorig

Final result Routine

ReportAssmtanceMessage V ..

Report and print group assistance enabled. To replace this print group with print groups which are easier
to conﬁgure. cut-and-paste the following commands into new print group records:

Component Results

Surgical Pathology:
(note)
Name
Date of Birth
Hospital Number
Location

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Accession #: Collected:

PATHOLOGlC DIAGNOSIS
CERVIX, BIOPSY:

— iNVASlVE SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA,

Staff Pathologist

Pertinent Clinical Information
SCCA of cervix.

140303

0W NCYVM‘V/ WW0?) (fig/0 3

5‘1”“ CW5“ N06151:; ‘/
g4 & z.//l—/// 3

Received:

POORLY DlFFERENTiATED

Results History Page 2 of 3

Clinical Impression: Cancer.

Gross Description
Specimen Material: Cervical biopsy.

The case is received in one part labeled with the patient‘s name, . . -

ledical record number and given accession number and it is
accompanied by a requisition form labeled with the same name and same
accession number.

The specimen is received in formalin labeled "CERVICAL BIOPSY" and consists
of a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm and 0.9 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm tan-white soft irregular
tissue. which is submitted in toto in one cassette.

Pathology Resident

Microscopic Description

Sections of the biopsy show scant amounts of ﬁbrous stroma inﬁltrated by
sheets and nests of poorly differentiated malignant cells with pleomorphic,
hyperchromatic nuclei and a moderate amount of cytoplasm. The tumor cells
are highlighted by a CK516 immunohistochemical stain with appropriate
control. These ﬁndings are consistent with a poorly differentiated invasive
squamous carcinoma.

Intradepartmental consultation: has examined this case and
agrees with the ﬁndings and interpretation.

These ﬁndings were discussed with

The staff pathologist listed below has reviewed this case.

This immunohistochemistry test(s) was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by the ,

and/or afﬁliated institution. it has not
been cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This test
is used for clinical purposes. it should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory
improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualiﬁed to perform high
complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

"Electronicallv Signed Out“

Staff Pathologist

Result History

Result gate and Time Status Bﬁority

,,,,,,, In process Routine

Report and print group assistance enabled. To replace this print group with print groups which are easier
to configure. cutand—paste the following commands into new print group records:

Results History Page 3 of 3

 

 

IResults Routing Details for Order:

Results contact on ‘ - Final result
Outcome: Routed using the authorizing provider
Routing Scheme Used:
Routing Scheme Line: 2
Resulting User:
Routing Instant:
Comments: Routing scheme returned no reclpienls
Current Status: Routing Complete
Stems Hlstory: Result contact created
Routing started
Routing Complete
Sent: Message ID: ecipients:
Resident (MD
Responsible: Yes .
Provider ID: 1 (provider deﬁned by Results Routing)
Result routed to linked user using
Results contact on - In process
Outcome: Result not sent
Resulting User: Lab in Interface
Routing Instant:
Comments: An message was not sent because no results were ﬁled
Current Status: Routing Complete
Status History: Result contact created
Routing Complete

 

 

 

Order Transmittal Details for Order:
There is no tracking information for this order. Either the order has not gone through order transmittal or the tracking data has
been purged from the system due to age.

 

 

 

Performance Data For

is
Reviewer

 

 

 

