/CA~0-3

amm‘m‘ mar/1% Emu» 1/wa

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient
Name:

MRN:
DOB:
Gender: M

HCN:
Ordering MD:

Copy To:

Service:
Visit #:
Location:
Facility:

 

Specimenisl Received

1. Lymph-Node: right paratracheal node dissection
2. Lymph node: Left paratracheal node dissection
3. Thyroid: Total thyroidectomy stitch Rt. superior polo

Diagnosis

UUID:OBDEBD3E-681E-

9340/3
8H4: ‘Hufwi‘d, MOS 073.7
jhr q/ae/n
Accession #:
Collected:
Received:
Reported:

TCGA- EM-A

4504-5335-533295ruaaco

miiiiminimmmtiriiii'iﬁiiﬁmnnnIiirliiﬁii'iiii“

lll ll

1. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 3 (right paratracheal) dissection specimen

2. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 3 (left paratracheal) dissection specimen

3. Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant, 5.4 cm, right; focal thyroiditis: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 2, left perithyroidal
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, isthmic
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid, left perithyroidal

- Total thyroidectomy specimen

Synoptlg Data

Procedure:
Received:
Specimen Integrity:
Specimen Size:

Specimen Weight:
Tumor Focality:

Other:Total thyroidectomy with bilateral paratracheal dissection

Fresh
Intact
Right lobe:
7.0 cm

4.1 cm
2.5 cm
Left lobe:
3.9 cm

2.9 cm

0.9 cm
Isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:
4.0 cm

2.4 cm

0.3 cm
41.0 g
Unifocal

--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR--------------

Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Size:

Right lobe
Greatest dimension: 5.4cm
Additional dimension: 4.0 cm

lHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll l
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllPill'llﬂllﬂl'“:l'l'lllllll'lllll

%,

 

Additional dimension: 2.4 cm ‘
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant Z’rrfr, Wm M = (002

Follicular architectij‘r'e'"""" W " WT‘M'"

Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Present, extent minimal

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable .

Primary Tumor (pT): pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid or with minimal
extrathyroidal extension (eg, extension to sternothyroid muscle or
perithyroid soft tissues)

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 9
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Thyroiditls, focal (nonspeciﬁc)
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Electronically veriﬁed
by:

9

Gross Description
1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Right paratracheal node

dissection" consists of a fragment of reddish yellow tissue that measures 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm.
1A submitted in toto

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Left paratracheal node dissection"
consists of 3 pieces of reddish yellow tissue that measures from 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1to 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm.
2A submitted in toto

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Thyroid: Total thyroidectomy stitch right superior
pole" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a stitch and weighs 41.0 g. The right lobe measures
7.0 cm Sl x 4.1 cm ML x 2.5 cm AP, the left lobe measures 3.9 cm SI x 2.9 cm ML x 0.9 cm AP and the
isthmus measures 4.0 cm Sl x 2.4 cm ML x 0.3 cm AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions and
are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identified grossly. The upper mid
to lower pole of the right lobe,.contains a well delineated nodule that measures 5.4 cm SI x 4.0 cm ML x
2.4 cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of right lobe nodule and normal
tissue are stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

3A-S right lobe, superior to inferior

3T-U isthmus

3V-AA left lobe, superior to inferior

 

