 

    

.12 eiev ueI II-I iiiais

UUID: D0269758- EFAE- AEBA- BCCF- 4A6CF404335eAd
TCGA- Al- ABSN- 01A- PR

Ill IlllllHHllllHHHHIHHHHHIIIIIHIHHIIHHlllllHllllllHt‘Ed
Ill llHlHllIl lllHHllll lHlHHHHHl HllHlHlHHlHlHlll
||| ||||HH|||||HHIHIII|IIHHHIHIIHHIHIHIHHHlH ”H

Mb 0 3
4m.“ MMf/Lv/ﬁqw 1U”; 85’00/3
51/9: Wit/05 C.§0, ‘7 ,4) /¢/.1I//I

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Lymph node, left axillary sentinel node #1, excision: No metastatic carcinoma in

one lymph node (0/1).

B. Lymph node, left axillary sentinel node #2, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in one
lymph node with extension into peri- -nodal fat (1/1).

C. Lymph node, left axillary sentinel node #3, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in one
lymph node (1/1).

D. Lymph node, left axillary non-sentinel node #1, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in
one lymph node (1/1).

 

 

.—

Pnge l ol'S

 

 

Surgical Pathology - Workinﬂraft

E. Lymph node, left axillary non-sentinel node #2, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in
one lymph node (1/1).

F. Breast, left, partial mastectomy:

1. 1W, SBR grade 2, 1.1 cm in maximum dimension,
margins negative; see comment.

2. Ductal carcinoma in situ, high-grade, solid and comedo types, 1.1 cm in maximum
dimension, intermixed with invasive ductal carcinoma, margins negative.

G. Breast, left lateral anterior, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identiﬁed.

H. Breast, medial superior anterior, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identiﬁed.

I. Lymph node, left axillary contents, excision: No metastatic carcinoma in eight
lymph nodes (0/8).
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Left.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 1.1 cm maximum diameter.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): 2.
Nuclear grade: 3, 3 points.
Mitotic count: <10 mitotic figures/10 HPF, 1 point.
TubuIe/papiila formation: <10%, 3 points.
Total points and overall grade a 7 points = grade 2.
— Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Extensive lymphatic-vascular invasion is noted with intra-iymphatic
metastasis noted in lymphatics at least 1 cm from the main tumor.
- Perineural invasion: Not present.
- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.2 cm away, on slide F6).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is greater than 1 cm).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is greater than 1 cm).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.2 cm away, on slide F6).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide F4).

- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: Comedo and solid.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ size: 1.1 cm, intermixed with invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: High-grade.
- Necrosis in DCIS: Comedonecrosis.
- Microcalcifications: Not identified.
- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ:
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.6 cm away, on slide F6).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is greater than 1 cm).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is greater than 1 cm).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.25 cm away, on slide F6).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.25 cm away, on slide F6).

— Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): None.

- Lymph node status: Positive.
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 4.
- Total number sampled: 13.

- Diameter of largest metastasis: 0.8 cm.

 

 

Page 2 of 5

 

 

Surgical Pathology - , WorkinLDI-aft

- Extranodal extension: Present.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pl’IchMX.

An immunohistochemlcal test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed by manual
morphometry on block #.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There isstrong nuclear staining in 90% of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is positive.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is moderate nuclear staining in 60% of tumor
cells. Internal positive control is positive.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is positive for HERZ/neu oncoprotein over—expression.

An immunohistochemlcal assay was performed by manual morphometry on block F8 using the C811
monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 3 on a
scale of 0-3 (HER2 test interpreted by Dr. ’

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene ampliﬁcation. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The resuim of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

 

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are‘considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochemlcal and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

Intraoperatlve Consult Diagnosis

F51 (A) Left axillary sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: No tumor seen. (Tissue section and
cytopreparation) (Dr. I

F52 (B) Left axillary sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: Positive for metastatic carcinoma. (Tissue
section and cytopreparation) (Dr.

F53 (C) Left axillary sentinel lymph node #3, biopsy: Positive for metastatic carcinoma. (Tissue
section and cytopreparation) (Dr. l

F54 (D) Left axillary non-sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: Positive for metastatic carcinoma. (Tissue
section and cytopreparation) (Dr.

Clinical History

The patient is a year-old woman with left breast invasive ductal carcinoma. She undergoes partial
mastectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is additionally labeled It consists of a single irregular piece of
soft—firm, pink-red tissue, measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is bisected, and cytologic
touch and scrape preparations are prepared. The specimen is then entirely submitted for frozen
section diagnosis as F51, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.

Part B is additionally labeled " It consists of a single oval piece of soft-to-ﬂrm,
red-pink tissue, measuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected, and cytologic touch and
scrape preparations are made. The specimen is then entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as
F52, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Bl.

Part C is additionally labeled It consists of a single ovoid piece of soft-to-flrm,

 

Page 3 ol‘5

 

 

Slggical Pathology - i Working Draft

pink—red tissue, measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected, and cytologic touch and
scrape preparations are prepared. ihe speCImen is then entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as F53, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette C1.

 

 

Part D is additionally labeled It consists of a single ovoid piece of
soft-to-ﬂrm, pink-red tissue, measuring 1.3 x 0., x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected, and cytologic
touch and scrape preparations are prepared. The specimen is then entirely submitted for frozen
section diagnosis as F54, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette 01.

Part E is additionally labeled It consists of a single ovoid piece of firm,
off-white/tan tissue, measuring 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted
in cassette E1.

Part F is additionally labeled t consists of
an oriented portion of fat, measuring 10.3 (anterior— posterior) x 7.4 (medial-lateral) x 6.4
(superior-inferior) cm and weighing 13 gm. There is a 1.1 cm in diameter white-yellow hard mass
with a white homogeneous interior located within the specimen (slices 3—6). This mass abuts the
posterior margin, is 0.6 cm from the anterior-inferior and anterior-superior margins, 1 cm from the
lateral margin, and 7 cm from the medial margin. The specimen is inked so as the anterior-superior
surface is blue, the anterior- inferior surface is green, and the posterior surface is black. A
representative section is taken for tissue banking. The specimen is serially sectioned, from lateral to
medial into thirteen 0.5 cm slices. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette F1: Lateral margin, slice 1, perpendicular.

Cassettes F2-F3: Slice 2, two pieces.

Cassettes F4-F5: Slice 3, two pieces, mass.

Cassettes F6-F7: Slice 4, two pieces, mass.

Cassette F8: Representative section of slice 5, mass.

Cassette F9: Representative section of slice 6, mass.

Cassette F10: Slice 12.

Cassette F11: Medial margin. slice 13. perpendicular.

Part G is additionally labeled ." It consists of a

small fragment of fat, measuring 0.6 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm. A stitch marks a portion of the specimen
indicating the true margin. The specimen is inked so as this true margin is blue, and the rest of the
specimen is black. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette 61.

Part H is additionally labeled . It
consists of a fragment of yellow—white, soft fat, measuring 1 x 0.6 x 0.7 cm. A stitch marks the true
margin of the specimen. The specimen is inked so as this true margin is blue, and the remaining
portion of the specimen is black. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette H1.

Part I is additionally labeled It consists of a portion of fat measuring 4.2 x 3.8
x 0.9 cm. Multiple pink-tan lymph nodes are noted within the specimen ranging in size from 0.6-1.3
cm in diameter. Many of these nodes are previously bisected or trisected. Representative sections of
the specimen are taken and submitted as follows:

Cassette 11: Six lymph nodes attached.
Cassette 12: Two lymph nodes, one bisected and one trisected.
’Pathology Resident . ’athologist
Signed:
Fee Codes:

 

Pago4ol'5

 

Surgical Pathology ~ Working Draft

Other Specimens

_Specimen Class: 1 Status: N/A Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Skin, biopsy, punch bx, right posterior calf

Final Diagnosis {Final Report Not Signed Out}
{Not Entered}

 

‘Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: SP Consult
W
Review from

 

Breast, left, 1 o‘clock, core needle biopsy:
1. Invasive carcinoma; see comment.

2. Microscopic focus of ductal carcinoma in situ, high nuclear grade; see comment.

 

 

END OF REPORT Page 5 of5

