UUID:llpcagyE‘l’Ji-ZSSSEFs-dggi-BgﬁD- A91A543|§F8a5 L W '

e acted ’\ . - -
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImmIHll lllllllllllllllllllll 5’ W’ ' '
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII SJ;

VMLG Waite? ‘/
gab ﬁle/H

 

Enucleation of the right eye.

Macroscopy:

The eyeball measures 25 mm in diameter and the posterior optic nerve segment 10
mm. At the section, a brownish endo— ocular tumor measuring 15x15 mm main lines
is observed. Tumor specimens have been taken for cryopreservation and genetic
studies, and then the piece has been ﬁxed and included entirely.

Microscopy WW “low

The tumor observed macroscopically presents the histological features of a
melanoma. It is composed of a mix of epithelioid (50%) and fusiform cells (50%), with
variable amounts of melanic pigment. These cells present an ovoid nucleus with
moderate atypias, sometimes associated with visible nucleolus. The mitotic index is
low (8 mitoses per 10 HPF).

Topographically, the tumor is located at distance of the endo—ocular emergenCe of
the optic nerve. There' Is no sclerai invasion and no tumor embolisms. The tumor
inﬁltrates partially the ciliary body. At the posterior part of the eyeball, the lamina
cribrosa, the optic nerve on its entire course and the meningeal sheaths are free of
tumor. The cut end of the optic nerve is also free of tumor. ‘

Conclusion:

Uveal melanoma composed of epithelioid and fusiform cells.
Tumor size: 15 mm main line.

Focal extension of the ciliary body.

No sclerai or extra-sclerai extension.

Optic nerve in its entire course and cut end, and meningeal sheaths free of tumor.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V4.00

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

W5; The TC GA Pathologlc Diagnosis Discrepangl Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for T654 is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site S :_ TSS Identifier: TSS Uni ue Patient Identiﬁer: _,‘
q
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinica]: __ Completed Date: _
Diagnosis Information
it Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
. Provide the diagnosis] histologic subtypa(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis 50% epithelioid cells the initial pathology report for ﬁlls case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial ﬂ this case is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report 50% spmdie cells
- . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
ggtggnggfefszZy 61'90% epithelium ”“3 Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 for 'E‘CGA, as reﬂected 1-3096 spindle cells
on the CQCF.
IDiscrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
3 Provide the reason for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy The section of the. frozen sample used for sending Pathdw’ “39°” mm“ “5' ‘5 m“ mnmemw‘m we
between the pathology to TCGA corresponds to a section of the tumor diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCGA where the epithelioid part is predominant.
Case Quality Control ,
Form. The percentages mentioned on the initial
Pathology Report correspond to an average on the
whole embedded sections used for establish the
Pathology Report.
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of die-pathomgist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or f“ TC“
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

 

i acknowledge that the above infomation provided by my institution is true and cannot and has been quality cancelled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

1 acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality (vomited. The Amending Pathologist or the
Department Chaiman has been wormed or is aware ofthe above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

i’rincipal investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

