UUID:89446519-CC95-4244-98CF~F3781903618E

TCGA-QR-A'IOK-olA-PR Redacted
ll lllllllllllllllllllll

llll Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllll
IllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil lllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

Sggicnl Pathology "‘ Final Results
Surgical Pathology Final
CASE NUMBER:
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Retroperitoneal mass(1FS)t Splenunculus.
2. Adrenal mass, right, excision: Pheochromocytoma, See Note.

NOTE: No vascular or capsular invasion seen. A lymph node search was
performed in periadrenal adipose tissue and no lymph nodes were
identified. The neoplastic cells are positive for chromogranin and
synaptophysin and negative for inhibin. 8100 stains sustentacular

cells. This staining pattern is consistent with a pheochromocytoma.

lmmunoperoXid‘e’sé'aftdiﬂsltu hybridization-tests-performed hereandm
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathologyi . They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Brief Clinical History: Pheochromocytoma
Specimen Taken For Protocol:
01 - Yes Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: Large 10 X 9 X8 cm right adrenal mass
and a 2 X

t50m left splenule Post-Operative Diagnosis: Pheochromooytoma
Pre—Operative Diagnosis: Pheochromocytoma

SPEClMENS SUBMlTTED: l. RETROPERITONEAL MASS, Left (lFS)
2. ADRENAL GLAND, RlGHT

lNTRAOPERATlVE CONSULTATlON: Received fresh from the OR with the
patient’s name, medical record number, date of birth, and further

specified as "left retroperitoneel mass" is an intact spherical nodule,

maroon and smooth in color, 1.5 cm in diameter and is focally attached

to pink—yellow adipose tissue separately measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm,
Diagnosis (ti-“Si: Spleen. The intraoperative consultation was performed

by

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: Received fresh are 2 specimens, each in
containers labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number, and
further specified as follows:

Received fresh from the OR in a container labeled with the patient's
name, medical record number, and further

i; untilwnlis‘. i‘riism lntixnanlian. l hunid’ws'rzwl disclosure :5 hmirlwirari i‘i- rill: {axis-tell i’rzxvnt'g faint tr“ 183$

 

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

X Surgical Pnthologx l Final Resultj

Received are 2 formalinJilled containers labeled with the patient's
name, medical record number, and date of birth. These specimens are
further specified as follows:

 

 

i. "Left retroperitoneal mass“ are 2 fragments of tissue that
appear in consistency and color to be that of splenic tissue. The
first fragment is irregular, lobulated. 3 cm splenic tissue
fragment that is placed into a white cassette labeled

' Another 2-cm fragment of what appears to be splenic

tissue rs praceo into a white cassette labeled . r. This
tissue also corresponds to the specimen that was examined as a
frozen section. The whole contents of the section examined during
the intraoperative frozen section consultation are transferred
from a green cassette labeled l to an orange cassette labeled

" 2. ”Right adrenal'for'reseetion-and-pennanenti‘.isaj9§§lly -..._
disrupted red ovoid nodular tissue fragment measuring 10 x 9 x 8 ‘ "‘ " " ~ - . .._. ~
cm, and weighing 429 grams. it is focally covered by adipose
tissue and the cortex of the adrenal gland that is evident. There
is a i x 0.4—cm focal surgical defect on the external surface with
pink-tan soft friable tumor fragments that appear to be tumor. lt
is bisected revealing a heterogeneous red-tan soft friable and
rubbery cut surface with hemorrhage The center of the mass has a
rubbery to crumbly maroon—red necrotic center comprising 50% of
the nodule. Gross photographs are taken. Approximately 60% of
the viable portion of the nodule is procured for research with the
majority going to l ' ‘ and a 4mm piece of tissue to

the remainder of the specimen is placed into
formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent. Procurement
was performed by on ‘

Received in pathology is the above mentioned mass that is cut in a
perpendicular fashion from the lateral to the medial side in order
to improve fixation. The areas of necrotic tissue that appear to
be consistent with a tumor are apparent on the lateral surface of
the mass. On gross examination, there does appear to be normal
adrenal gland which appears on one of the lateral surfaces and
appears 4 cm in greatest diameterr The external surface of the
entire mass has been inked black. Serial sections through the
portion of the mass that appears to have adrenal gland in addition
to tumor are sectioned and placed into cassettes

represents the most lateral portion of the identified adrenal
gland and serial sections are “l cm apart and towards the medial
aspect of the mass. The first section in does not appear to
have any adrenal tissue on gross examination, however, the next

section that will be placed in does appear to have
normal adrenal tissue. The irregular mass is serially sectioned
and placed into white cassettes labeled This

area appears to be lateral to normal adrenal tissue. This portion

of the mass is approximately 6 cm and extends from what appears to
be the end of normal adrenal tissue all the way to the edge of the
mass. Again, the capsule is inked black. A well-circumscribed
white—tan lesion is located within the realm of a much more dark

(tiriiitlcnziul l‘uticm irrr’or'rntitivn. i lriririrhririr-r;ri :iiaclosirrs n: prohibited in: its. talent? i’rr‘i‘ity Act of lift, 30MB:

 

 

 

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

Surgical Pathologxl Final Results]

reddish brownish homogeneous material that encompasses most of the
mass. This lesion is placed entirely into the white cassette
The most lateral noninn of the mass is placed into

white cassette labeled Surrounding adipose tissue
with the possibility of harboring lymph nodes are placed into
white cassettes labeled An additional 1. 5 cm

white lesion that IS well- circumscribed and within the larger mass
that is very homogeneous and tan— brown m minr IS sectioned and
placed into white cassette labeled

Gross Description dictated by . Additional
Gross Description dictated by 1 , or _

No consultants
Accessionecl:

Wmﬁﬂgﬂﬁﬂlﬂ; ,_m___ i

 

<Resident Sianature>

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Date Report Signed:

Criteria 7 No

    

Tumor Site
HIPAA
Prior

Case is ,
Reviewer Reviewed:

 

(unite-m; '2 3 him .ﬁtr‘~ «Jim: iii -n t elm, :it‘ﬂtliiuti (Ylsii'ikéillk’ u prczltililiwélay iterlkxuxni i‘riistaﬁ‘fxz,tek’?9 10w}?

 

Requested By: l' ' ‘ 'DO not ﬁle in Medical Record

