 

 

A .124D4>:3 ‘
Caiww-we}, Math (Linea/4&1}; nos 8'! 70/5

511.. maker 0,252.0
(yes/MIN

UUID:11C65090-B§C3-4339 -3334-24727B242957
.Natpre o: Specimengsz I ﬁdﬁ
l

ca A
Illl lllllllll III III
Right lobe of liver ¥H “v HIM

Jr." ma... m.halalwaairmMl“w"'

Clinical Information Supplied

. _ , HALE.
Right hepatectomy. Past medical history of NIDDM.
Macro Report ﬁziuﬂﬁneﬁr EwﬁEt

Received was an 8519 right hepatectomy specimen measuring 201 x
103 x up to 111mm. The resection margin measured 179 x 101mm.
Beneath the diaphragmatic surface there was evidence of pale
tumour in the subcapsular area which on sectioning showed a pale
lobulated tumour mass measuring 43mm in maximum. Further
sectioning revealed further smaller areas of tumour ranging in
size from 4mm up to 17mm. These all appear to be within the
general area of the main tumour mass. The background liver
parenchyma appeared rather fatty. Towards the inferior portion of
the liver a further solitary tumour mass 15mm in maximum was
present, this being some 17mm from the resection margin.

Blocks: A — smaller inferior lesion to closest margin, B - whole
section of small lesion, C&D - whole section from larger tumour

mass to closest resection margin, E—K — sections from tumour mass,
L—N - background liver.

Micro Report

Histology shows multifocal hepatocellular carcinoma with a variety
of architectural patterns including nodules with marked steatosis
and Mallory‘s hyaline and other areas in which there is a rather
more nested and trabecular pattern of growth. The tumour is
completely excised by a margin of at least 14mm from the surgical

margin. There is no evidence of capsular breach or peritoneal
surface involvement.

Page 1 of 2

c «MA-PR Redacted "

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEiF’T

 

WARD SECRETARY DOCTOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

The background liver shows established bridging fibrosis, focally
amounting to early cirrhosis (confirmed on Van Gieson and
reticulin stains). There is moderate, predominantly
macrovesicular, steatosis. Areas of periportal, interface and
focal lobular inflammation are noted, however, these may be
related to the presence of tumour. The inflammatory infiltrate is

composed predominantly of small lymphocytes. Occasional plasma
cells and eosinophils are also noted.

An orcein stain for copper associated protein is negative.

A Perlé' stain for iron is'negative.

No PAS positive diastase resistant globules are identified.
Summapy

Overall the features are those of multifocal hepatocellular
carcinoma arising in a background of cirrhotic liver. The tumour

is completely excised by a margin of at least 14mm.

ﬁigpagpre pf Pathologist‘s}

Page 2 of 2

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT

 

WARD SECRETARY p DOCTOR

 

 

 

A”,

 

 

