UUID: EBISD793- A4EF- 4393- 8759- E623A7282E0ecd
TCGA- 93- ASSQ -61A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIII||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||||||||I||I|
IIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII
III III IIII III IIIIII III II IIIIIII II II I IIIII IIIIIIII II IIII I IIII I III

Operative Procedure:
Right upper Iobectomy

Pre-Operative Diagnosis:
See below

Post-Operative Diagnosis:
See below

Specimen Received:

A: Right upper and middle lobe
8: Level 7

C: Level 2

D: Level4

E:

Bronchial margin (FS)

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

IQLD - 0 ~

8‘67a/3

84:- @9341? MW M (541
9,“) //;2/i5

A. Lung, right upper and middle lobe, Iobectomy: Poorly differentiated

squamous cell carcinoma

Specimen: Lung: Upper and middle lobes
Procedure: Bilobectomy

Specimen laterality: right
Tumor site: upper lobe
Specimen integrity: intact

Tumor size: 4.9 cm (greatestdimension)

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Tumor histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Tumor grade: poorly differentiated

Visceral pleura invasion: negative

Tumor extension: conﬁned to the lung

Margins:

Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Squamous cell carcinoma in situ (CIS) not identified at

bronchial margin ]

Vascular margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma;
Parenchymal margin: Not applicable
Not applicable
Chest wall margin: Not applicable
Not applicable

If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin:

Parietal pleural margin:

Other attached tissue margin:

determined

Specify margin: Not applicable
Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph—vascular invasion: indeterminate

can not be

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: none known
Primary tumor (pT): pT 2a
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN 1
Number examined: 15
Number involved: 1
If lymph node(s) involved, specify involved nodal station(s):
11-12 r
Distant metastasis (pM): pM not known
Additional pathologic findings: Respiratory bronchiolitis

B. Lymph node. level 7, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1)

C. Lymph node, level 2, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1)

D. Lymph node, level 4, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1)

E. Bronchus, right upper lobe margin, excision:
No signiﬁcant pathologic change.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSE: Bronchial margin:
Negative for carcinoma.
F/S TAT: 16 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are five containers, all labeled with the patient‘s name,

Part A is received in formalin additionally labeled "right upper and middle

lobe" and consists of an 18.9 x 13 x 5.7 cm lobe of lung. The pleura is
purple-tan to pink, smooth and glistening and has been previously inked black
and incised. No parenchyma! staple lines are present. The exposed hilar edge is
inked blue. Sectioning reveals a mass that is tan to white with ill deﬁned
borders, having dimensions of 4.9 x 3.9 x 2.8 cm. This mass comes to within 1.7
cm of the pleural edge and 1.5 cm of the inked exposed hilar edge. The mass
appears to involve the bronchus. The uninvolved parenchyma is red to pink.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
A1 vascular margin;
A2 mass to bronchus;
A3 mass to pleura;
A4—5 representative sections of mass;

A6 uninvolved parenchyma;

A7 one lymph node sectioned;

A8 four probable lymph nodes;

A9 one probable lymph node trisected;
A10 four probable lymph nodes;

A11 one probable lymph node sectioned;
A12 one probable lymph node sectioned.

Part B is received in formalin additionally labeled "level 7" and consists of a
single portion of pink-tan irregular soft tissue with dimensions of 2.4 x 1.9 x
1.1 cm. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes 1 and 2.

Part C is received in formalin and additionally labeled "level 2" and consists
of a single portion of pink-tan irregular soft tissue with dimensions of 2.1 x
1.5 x 1.1 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette C1.

Part D is received in formalin and additionally labeled "level 4" and consists
of a single portion of pink-tan to brown irregular soft tissue with dimensions
of 3.4 x 2.4 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in
cassettes D1-D4.

Part E is received fresh for frozen section and additionally labeled "bronchial
margin" and consists of a pink-tan portion of soft tissue with diameter of 0.7
cm. Residual tissue from frozen section is submitted in cassette E1.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings. Special stains (lMPOX) were performed in order to further characterize
the tumor. The tumor stains focally for p63 and CK5/6. It is negative for Napain
and TTF-1. Controls stain appropriately. The f iniindings suppor the
interpetation.

END OF REPORT

Taken: Gender: F

 

