  

CGA — 66 -2742

 

Material examined:

Right lung and others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Squamous cell carcinoma of right upper lobe, malignancy?

REPORT ON FINDINGS

Macl'oscopy

1.) LN right middle lobe: 1.5 cm lesioned node, section surfaces speckled black in places, grayish—white patches in places
and indurated.

2.) LN right upper lobe: 1.5 cm lesioned node, section surfaces with section surfaces as described under 1.).

3.) Right lung: inflated, fixed lung measuring 19 x 15 cm at the base and up to 24 cm in length, central bronchus
resection line located 0.5 cm proximal to the point where the upper lobe bronchus arises. 51 with deep notch in the
sagittal plane extending close to the hilus. Upper pleural fissure largely obliterated, only recognizable in a short segment
of the dorsal region. Pleura with intensive, partly diffuse and partly reticular or patchy black pigmentation. Pieura above
Segments 1 + 3 shows diffuse grayish-white dioscoloration especially in the lateral region. At the point where the upper
lobe bronchus arises and its first branch is located a moderately solid tumor, max. 8.5 cm in size, with the primary mass
in the upper lobe, of unclear and somewhat arcuate demarcation, predominantly pale brownish and in sections pathc
grayish-black pigmentation, with excentric cavity of irregular configuation and max. 2.6 cm in size. initial extension of
tumor to the middle lobe at the pleural fissure. Tumor extension to the star-shaped area of shrinkage there in the
ventrolateral visceral pleura above Segment 3 and and as far as the pleura above Segment 1 in the region of the whitish
discoloration. Distance from hilar resection surface at least 0.3 cm. Marked narrowing of central and intermediate
sections of the upper lobe bronchi and also truncation of peripheral branches of 81-3 in the tumor. involvement of some
black pigmented nodes up to 1.5 cm in size by the tumor, one of these located at the hilus. In the middle lobe, 0.7 cm
pale brown-whitish tumor of unclear demarcation at least 0.8 cm from tumor margin in the proximity of the pleural
fissure. Parenchyma in the tumor environment partly indurated and brownish~yellow in patches, peripheral bronchi of
the upper lobe dilated and filled with thick mucus. In the lower lobe, especially in the dorsal segment, numerous hard
areas measuring up to 0.2 cm partly in the subpleurai region and partly in the parenchyma. In the subpleurai region of
Segment 7, a whitish strip—like area 0.3 cm in size. Remaining parenchyma, especially in the subpleurai and basai region
in the lower lobe, diffusely indurated with suggestion of grayish-white reticular pattern, lung surface in these sections
partly suggestive of pavement relief. At the hilus three grayish-black node lesions between 0.7 and 1.1 cm in size.

4.) Right parietal pleura: Flat or membranous area measuring 14 at max. 4.5 cm and up to 0.2 cm thick. Surface
predominantly smooth, fatty tissue on the other side.

5.) Hilar LN (Item 10) right: 1.8 cm lesioned grayish-black node with some surrounding tissue.

6.) Subcarinal LN (Item 7): 2.5 cm lesioned grayish-black node with some surrounding tissue.

7.) Deep paratracheai LN (Item 4) right: two lesioned grayish-black nodes, 0.5 and 1.3 cm in size.

8.) Hilar LN (Item 10)1eft: 1.5 cm lesioned grayish-black node.

Examined:

1.) + 2.) Rapid section remains + residual material,

3.) Tumor with remaining parenchyma, including involved nodes + proxicmal section of 82, 2 sections with lateral
pleura above 53, 2 sections with pleura above 51, hilar resection surface (color marking), main bronchus, upper pleural
fissure (color marking), secondary tumor in middle lobe, 5 sections of hard areas in 510+9, strip-like white-speckled zone
in Segment 7 {haived}, $9 basal, $10 dorsal, central bronchus resection line + resection margins vessels, hilar nodes,

4.) Ssections,

5.) nodes (halved),

6)- 8.)All material (in 6. nodes, in 7. large nodes halved in each case),

4

2 blocks, partly—, PAS, and diastase—PAS, iron.

 

Microscopy
1.) + 2.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): LN with anthracotic pigment deposit and sclerosis zones, no

evidence of tumor in the samples.

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses

Extensive, large cell, non-keratinizing, bronchopulmonary squamous cell carcinoma of the upper lobe of the
right lung with poor histological differentiation, extending from central to peripheral regions, with partially
extensive necrotic changes. Tumor classiﬁcation based on the existing picture pT2 le le V1 R0, stage IV.
(334.1 M80708. G3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses

Overall still slight discontinuous interstitial ﬁbrosis of the lung parenchyms in the mantle zone with perifocal
emphysema. Subpleural ﬁbrous remodeled area of lung parenchyma in S7. Moderately marked mixed
pigmenting storage of dust in the lung tissue and in places high-grade (appears to be a word missing here) of
lymph nodes with inclusion of very small anisotropic particles. Marked cluster of alveolar siderophages in
places. Peritumoral accentuated slight active and partly resorptive pneumonia. Small fool of mature metaplastic
ossiﬁcation of lung tissue. Diffuse and nodular zones of sclerosis in lymph nodes. Slight, focally accentuated
chronic parietal pleuritis with short sections of reactive mesothelial proliferation and likewise short sections of
slight ﬁbrosis (sample 4.)).

Remarkfaddendum

The carcinoma has grown centrally as ar as the main bronchus and in peripheral regions shows areas of slight
invasion of the hypocellular ﬁbrosed visceral pleura. It is therefore not possible to decide whether the
carcinoma has arisen in the periphery of the lung or in the center of the bronchial pathway. The lymph node
metastases, like the isolated invasions of small vessels, lie wthin the tumor or the bronchopulmonaary region.
Apart from the main tumor, which has penetrated focally across the transverse pleural ﬁssure into the adjacent
section of middle lobe, a separate small tumor focus has been detected in the middle lobe. This is classiﬁed as a
satellite nodule in another lobe, although histologically it hardly shows a squamous epithelial differentiation and
contains a small light-cell solid component. A tumor-associated high—grade inﬂammation is also found here.
The etiology of the interstitial pulmonary ﬁbrosis, which shows only minimal process activity, is histologically
unclear: there may be an association with respiratory bronchiolitis.

 

