 

WID: 91317025- ICD- 4F". 9687- 7FFmthE5eBBSac
T-CGA-XU-ASZY OlA-PR

111-1111.11111111111111"

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: - Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F Location: 1106- 13

Facility:
Ordering MD: \jlli’mﬁnﬂ [9M 53
353515

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report Duﬁ— 61AM WIN—x
@584
gm 4/a/H
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

1 Mediastinum: anterior mediastinal tumour & wedge of left upper lobe
of lung long stitch left lateral, short stitch superior

DIAGNOSIS
1. Composite resection, anterior mediastinal tumor with portion of left
upper lobe:
a) Thymoma, partially encapsulated, type WHO B3 (See Comment), with
1) Greatest dimension = 4.5 cm
ii) Focal tumor necrosis and calcification
iii) Focal invasion through capsule, into mediastinal soft tissues
iv) No invasion of lung identified
b) Lung with focal mucus inspissation and post— ~0bstructive changes
c) Two mediastinal lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/2)

COMMENT

Sections show a partially encapsulated tumor composed predominantly of
epithelioid cells showing prominent clear vacuoles and minimal nuclear
atypia. These are admixed with small numbers of lymphocytes which stain
positive for CDla by immunohistochemistry. The tumor shows areas of
infarct-like necrosis and focally invades through the capsule into
mediastinal fat. Tumor is seen close to the painted surface of the
resection specimen (< 0.1 cm) but seems to be covered by thin connective
tissue at this point. There are dense adhesions between the tumor
capsule and the visceral pleura of the lung, but invasion of the pleura
or lung parenchyma is not identified. The combined morphologic and
immunohistochemical features are consistent with a type WHO B3 thymoma,
with invasion of mediastinal soft tissue.

The surrounding lung parenchyma shows reactive changes, likely secondary
to compression and local effects of the tumor. The lung parenchymal
nodule noted grossly (0.4 cm diameter; see Gross Description)
microscopically shows small airways with mucus inspissation and
surrounding post—obstructive changes, but is negative for tumor.

Status: complete Page: 1 of 2

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: 1 Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F - Location:

‘ Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

CLINICAL HISTORY
Thymoma

GROSS DESCRIPTION

The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as “anterior
mediastinal tumour and wedge of left upper lobe of lung, long stitch left
lateral, short stitch superior“. contains a lung wedge with attached
brownish—tan mass with fatty adhesions received in 10% buffered

formalin. The lung wedge measures 7.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm and.the attached
tissue measures 7.5 x 2.5 x 15.6 cm. The entire specimen weighs 79.0
grams and is painted with silver nitrate. on gross examination, the mass
appears to be adherent to the lung wedge. The other side of the mass
appears to be covered with a thin membranous tissue. On sectioning,
there is presence of a well—circumscribed multiloculated tumour that
measures 4.5 x 4.4 x 2.0 cm. The tumour has a variegated yellow to
yellow—brown color. On sectioning, there is presence of a
well-circumscribed translucent yellow nodule located on the lung
parenchyma. This nodule measures 0.4 x 0.4 cm and appears to be
separated from the main tumour at a 0.5 cm distance. On further
sectioning, no other nodules are identified grossly. Within the fatty
tissue, one possible lymph node is identified grossly measuring 0.6 x 0.5
cm. Representative seetions are submitted as follows:

1A to 1D Representative soft section of tumour in relation to lung and
membranous tissue.

1E Representative section of the tumour in relation to the lung nodule.
1F The rest of the lung nodule in toto.

1G and 1H Representative section of the lung parenchyma.

1I One possible lymph node bisected.

mm. 1}

 

Status: complete Page: 2 of 2

