UUID:SBDC36C1--SMF-4151-8EF0-DD8(26DBRlZeDOI-\a « - .
TCGA- -T5- A7PB- 81A- M Date Printed.

IIIIIII I III II IIII III II I |||||IIIIIIIIIII|III I III II“ IIIIII III“ 32:: $2323;
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII II III Age: - years Sex: Mate Accession No:
I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Physician:

Copy to:

 

I S'nrglcal Pathology 38113]! I

egg: 1333433

WW dHAS
W WM
Clinical Information Lg); CM :3 2.1:

year old male with mesotheiioma; Bronchoscopy, Left Thoracotomy & PDT 5 I O L g iNESQ 3 3 ‘1’

943 4/24/13

Final Diagnosis

1. RIB:
Benign Iameliar bone with tritinear bone marrow formation present, no tumor seen.

2. ANTEHIOR HILAH NODE:
Fragments of lymph node with presence of mesotheiioma.

3t PERICARDIAL FAT:

Sections of lymph node no tumor seen

Fragments of iibrofatty soft tissue, no tumor seen

immunohistochemicai stain confirms absence of tumor Invasion into fat.

NOTE. Lymph node with cluster of 3 ceiie positive for CK? not apparent on H&E section, suggestime of minute

m etastaeis

4. LEVEL 7:
Sections of iymph node, no tumor seen.

5. LEVEL 6:
Sections of lymph node. no tumor seen.

6. LEVEL 5:
Fibrofatty soft tissue with email amount of lymphoid tissue, no tumor seen

7 LEVEL 9:
Sections of iyrnph node no tumor seen
Sections 0! soft tissue with presence of mesothehoma.

8. LEVEL 8:
Sections of iymph node, no tumor seen.

9. PHRENEG MODE:
Sections of iymph node. no tumor seen.

to. POSTERIOR iNTERCOSTAL:
Lymph node with presence of mesotheiioma.

Name} Page 1 of 4
MRN;

 

Date Printed: :
Date Collected :
Date Received:
: years Sex: Male Accession No
Loo: Physician: i .
Copy to:

 
 

 

   

Patna-logy Jasper!

   

Suralael

11. PLEURA:

Sections of solt tissue with extensive presence of meeothelioma. .

Lung parenchyma with surrounding dense areas of mesotheiioma and a large tongue of tumor growing into the lung
parenchyma with alveolar tissue surrounding the tip of the tumor extension.

Surrounding skeletal muscle. no tumor seen within skeletal muscle

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:
(Electronic signature)
Veriﬁcation Date:

Note
Mesothelioma

Site:
Lett

Histologtc Type

Epitheltold mesothelioma

Margins

Cannot be assessed

Lymph nodes

Specify: Number examined: 8 anatomic sites

Number involved: 2 anatomic sites. (see description of #3)

Pathologic Staging (pTx N1 Mx)

Gross Description
The case is received in t1 containers. each labeled with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is received in formalin, designated as “Rib" and consists of a “L8 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm ragged and irregular
fragment ot treoeculeted bone, which is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette 1A following deoaiciticetion.

Specimen #2 is received in formalin. designated as "Anterior Hilar Node" and consists of a 1‘1 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm gray-black,
nodular soft tissue fragment. which is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette 2A.

Name Page 2 of 4
M

  

Name " Date Printed:
MRP Date Collected :
Date Received:

{303.1%}: years Sex: Male Accession No-
Loc.: Physician:
Copy to:

 

I 51119163] PHI/lﬂlﬂgl 39501.! I

Specimen #3 is received in formalin. designated as “Pericardiai Fat“ and consists of a 5.3 x 2.7 x 0.9 cm irregular
fragment of tan-yellow, tabulated adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals a 0.3 cm tan-pink, possible lymph node (cassette 3A).
No discrete masses or lesions are identified. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes 3A through 30.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 7" and consists of three ten-gray, irregular to nodular soft tissue
fragments measuring 0.6, 1.7 and 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment is bisected and submitted entirely in
cassette 4A, and the remainder of the irregular soft tissue fragments are submitted in fate in cassette 4B.

Specimen #5 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 8“ and consists of a a 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm gray—black, nodular
soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal gray—black, dense cut surtaces. The specimen is submitted entirely
cassette 5A. .

Specimen #6 is received in formalin, designated as “Level 5" and consists of a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm gray—black to tan-yellow,
nodular soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal tan-yellow, dense cut surfaces. The Specimen is submitted
entirely in cassette 6A.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin, designated as “Level 9‘ and consists of three grayvblack to tan-yellow, irregular soft
tissue fragments measuring 0.4, 0.8 and 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in late in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 is received in formalin, designated as “Level 8“ and consists of a 1.7 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm tan-white. firm, nodular
soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal tan-white, firm out surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in
cassette 8A.

Specimen #9 is received in formalin, designated as "Phrenic Node" and consists of a 1.3 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm gray-black,
irreguiar soft tissue fragment, which is submitted in laid in cassette 9A.

Specimen #10 is received in formalin, designated as “Posterior intercostal" and consists of multiple tan‘yellow to grey-
black, regular soft tissue fragments measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette 10A.

Specimen #11 is received in formalin, designated as “Pleura” and consists of a 600.3 g, 24.5 x 20.6 x 9.3 cm aggregate of
multiple ragged and irregular fragments of tanuyeliow to ian'gray, rubbery soft tissue, grossly consistent with portions of
parietal pleura. Each fragment is diffusely covered by tan, firm, thickened nodules. Sectioning reveals diffusely tan-white,
firm nodular areas which appear to involve the attached adipose tissue and grossly abuts portions of red-brown muscle.
There are possible grossly positive lymph nodes identified (cassette 110 and 110). Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes 11A through HG.

Dictated by:

Nam Page 3 of 4
MR}

 

Date Printed:
Date Coileded
Date Received:
years Sex: Male Accession No.
Physician:
Copy to:

 
  

  

 

Pal/10117913830]!

   

surgical

Pathologist(s)

PM) 7?} dz (MFMM in“,
[055 W ‘5 ~51"th

:VT . .
. I 7, l’ I} w v l H:

         
 

 

Page 1 of 1

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4:05

 

 

 

 

Study Subject ID: Person ID: N/A
Study/Site: TCGA Mesothelioma — 2Age: N/A
Event: PathDiscrepancy 2Date of Birth:
Interviewer: 7 5¢2x: M
Tumor Identifier Provided on Initial Case Provide the tumor identifier documented on the initial case quaiity

Quality Control Form control form for this case.

Pathologic Diagnosis Provided epithelioid Provide the diagnosis] histoiogic subtype(s) documented on the initial pathology

on Initial Pathology Report report for this case. If the histoiogy for this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Histologic features of the sample provided for biphasic Provide the histoiogic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality
T CGA, as reﬂected on the CQCF Control Form completed for this case.

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

Provide the reason for the Submitted specimen is biphasic (epithelioid & Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis
discrepancy between the sarcomatoid); the frozen specimen for clinical on the initial pathology report for this case is
pathology report and the TCGA diagnosis is epithelioid and indicated as such in not consistent with the diagnosis selected on
Case Quality Control Form the pathology report. the TCGA Case Quality Controi Form.

Name of TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this

Biorepository Director case for TCGA.

 

