Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

‘, , Page 1 0“ Clinical Center

i. M --- restatement

3 Gender:_ Birth Date. m m ll}It'llllllllﬂl{llllwlllmllIIIHlillllllllulllllllﬂllimllmll”I":Illm”ﬂ

.E Attend’ : WMD Admit Protocol: m

z r . mg ’ Ill llIllIIlll|IlllllllllllIlllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

, __ - W-.. FlnallResultsl

__ Surgical Pathology Final

l CASE NUMBERull-II .

' DIAGNOSIS:

_ 1. "Rule out parathyroid'. frozen section: Parathyroid tissue.

2. Thyroid with bilateral level VI lymph nodes. total thyroidectomy:

f - Papillary carcinoma of thyroid. tall cell variant.

I - Tumor invades muscle and perithyroidal soft tissue. Tumor

; extends to posterior (red) inked margin of resection and

' approaches the cartilage.

. - Four of thirty-three lymph nodes Involved by tumor (4133 ).

l - Parathyroid glands (3).

i - Thymlc remnants.

7 See Note.

3 NOTE: g .

Pathology Cancer Case Summary (Checklist) / b 0 3

. a _ .,

Procedure: total ihyroidectomy with bilateral level VI lymph node ' K

1 . resection . 4 W4 [3173;]le M ed? main—f
F aw/ 3

Received: fresh

.3 V 4". ‘I .
Specimen integrity: Intact if Mn ._ Na; (:73 1

§ Specimen Size i/aP/p
: Overall the specimen is 10. 5 x 9 x 4 cm

9 The right lobe' is 7 x 4 x 3 cm, the isthmus Is 3 x 3 x 224 cm. the left
5 lobe i55x2.6x 2.3 cm.

Specimen Weight 62.3 9
Tumor Focality: Multiiocal
Dominant Tumor

Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size

Greatest dimension: 5 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma
Variant. specify: Tall cell variant
Architecture: Classical (papillary)
Cytomorphology: Tall cell
Margins: Posterior resection margin (inked red) involved by tumor.
' @ Tumor Capsule: Not encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion; Cannot be assessed
Conﬁdential Patient Information. Unauthorized disclosure Is prohibited by the Fedei’ﬁ] Privacy Act of It}

Requested Bye-mm") Do not file in Medical Record

. ... __..._L__-.a——

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

Page 2 of 4 Clinical Center
Gender: m Birth Dutch"

Admit Protocol: m

Age: 'y

 

 

V—MLymph-Vascular Invasion: Identified

Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Extrathyroldal Extension: Present

Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT)
pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm limited to thyroid or any tumor with
minimal extrathyroid extension leg, extension to sternotl'iyroid
muscle or periihyroidal soft tissues)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pN1 a: Nodal metastases to Level VI (pretrecheal, paratracheal and
prelaryngeallDelphian) lymph nodes '
Specify: Number examined: 33
Number involved: 4
Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings
Parathyroid gland(s): three
Thymus

Immunoperoxidase and In«situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology. They have not been

cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA

has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Am endmenls of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical History: papillary thyroid cancer,
right lobe Specimen
Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes Allocate Order to Protocoim

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: papillary thyroid cancer right
lobe
Post-Operative Diagnosis: same Operative Findings: see op note

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. SERIAL 5 + 3FFR.SLIDES, Rule out parathyroid

(1FSI ‘ .,
2. THYROIDECTOMY. TOTAL. with bilateral level 6 lymph nodes

INT RAOF‘ERATIVE CONSULTATION: Received 1 specimen labeled with the

patient's name. medical record number, date of birth, and further
specified as "rule out parathyroid" are 2 tan soft tissue fragments
each measuring_0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. Frozen in lots as 'IFS.

Final Results]

Conﬁdential Palionl Information. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of W14.

 

Requested By: mower)

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

.V. .._up_._a._

u aua.

 

 

l

Patient Results

 

 

Page 3 of 4 Clinical Center

_ ‘
Birth Date: _ Age: .

 

 

3“,.“1 ES.diag'nosisgliarathyroidtissue

 

Final Results]

 

The intraoperative consultation was performed bl,

GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received are 2 freshly submitted specimens each
In containers labeled with the patient's name, medical record number
and further speciﬁed as follows.

1. "Rule out parathyroid". The remainder of the frozen tissue is
transferred from a green cassette labeled with Iii iatient's name and
1F S to an orange cassette labeled

2. "Thyroid with bilateral level 6 lymph nodes stitch right superior
research and perm" is an oriented total thyroidectomy specimen with
focally attached strap muscles anterioriy, locally attached shaved
portion of tracheal ring on the right lobe posteriorly (1.2 x 0.8 cm).-

and bilaterally attached level VI lymph nodes. Overall, the specimen
is 10.5 x 9 x 4 cm and 62.3 grams. There is a suture denoting the
right superior lobe. The right lobe is 7 x 4 x 3 cm, the isthmus Is 3

x 3 x 2.4 cm. the left lobe is 5 x 2.6 x 2.3 cm. The bilaterally

attached level 6 adipose tissues containing lymph nodes' ls 7 5 x 2 x 1
cm. The anterior surface is inked black. The right lobe and a portion
of contiguous isthmus has an indurated white-tan mass. 5 x 4. 5 x 4 cm.
The mass appears to abut the anterior and posterior as well as medial
and lateral surfaces of the right lobe. The left lobe has a centrally
positioned intact cyst (2 x 2 x 2 cm) filled with hemorrhage hazy brown
watery ﬂuid Approximately 25% of the right tndurated mass and 1 x 1
x 0.5 cm of what appears to be normal-appearing thyroid parenchyma are
procured for research with equal thirds provided to Dr.

and Dr. Approximately 20% of the left lobe cyst
lining is procured for Dr. procured multiple
FNA's from the right_ indurated mass and from the normal thyroid
parenchyma for Dr. Gross photographs are taken Post

procurement the posterior surface' ls inked red and the focally
attached shave of tracheal ring on the right posterior lobe ls
over-inked green The remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin
and submitted to pathology for permanent processing. The procurement Is
performed by . g and ”
Also received yet entirely procured for Dr
labeled "fat for ' . is a 1 x 1 x 0. Beam normal-appearing adipose
tissue fragment from the right cervical subcutaneous tissue. The
specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and matches the above
description. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted. Note-
that the cuts for procurement are made from the anterior surface.
2A - 23: lymph nodes attached to right side (2A is 1 lymph node
bisected).
202F: lymph nodes and fat attached to the left lobe
ZG - 2AAA : right lobe is entirely submitted from superior to
interior
21 corresponds to the area of mortal-appearing tissue that
was procured for research.
2N - ZAAA: firm white nodule entirely submitted. It measures
3.5 x 4 cm x 2.1 cm (post procurement).

Conﬁdential Patient Information. linmlihorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act ul‘ i974.

 

' Requested By” (Other)

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

_,__.___.___.« A

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of4 Cllnlcal Center
‘ ‘ _. Admit Protocol: Ill-II.
Gender: m Birth Date: mun Ago: I
Final Resui’ts]

 

 

BBB_-_C_QC:_isthmuels_sectioned.aanenﬁnely_sutzmltted
DDD - JJJ: representative sections of left lobe. No distinct
nodules are found in the left lobe.
Representative sections of tissue that were procured from the
lower aspect of the left lobe are placed in BBB and EEE.
Representative sections of tissue from the area that was
procured on the upper aspect of the left lobe are placed in
FFF. .

Gross Description dictated Additional
Gross Description dictated t

No consultants

Final Report Signed 0!!

< Resident Slgnature>

<Slan Out Dr. Sluneture>

Conﬁdential Patient Information. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the Federal l’riwrcyV/lct of 19'”,

6

2 55'). M M {/wa M73“

tents." 1-2 _
Diagnosis Discreplnq

Tumor

     
    
 

 

Requested By: Wher)

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

