SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number : -

Diagnosis:
A: Tongue base mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen.

B: Posterior ventral tongue, biopsy
— No tumor seen.

C: Lower mouth mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen.

D: Base of tongue B, biopsy
— No tumor seen.

E: Midline ventral tongue mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen.

F: Lymph node, left neck Level 1, biopsy

— Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in l of 9 lymph nodes
(1/9); maximum size of metastasis 1.0 cm; extracapsular
extension identified.

— Benign salivary gland tissue present.

G: Lymph node, left neck Level 2, biopsy

— Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in l of 2 lymph nodes
(1/2); maximum size of metastasis 0.9 cm; extracapsular
extension identified.

H: Lymph node, left neck Level 3, biopsy

— Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in l of 37 lymph nodes
(1/37); maximum size of metastasis 0.2 cm; negative for definite
extracapsular extension.

I: Tongue, left hemiglossectomy

Tumor histologic type/subtype: invasive moderately
differentiated keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma

Primary site: tongue
Size: 5.4 cm by gross examination

Extent of invasion:
Angiolymphatic invasion: present

Perineural Invasion: present
Bone invasion: not applicable

Carcinoma in situ: not identified

Surgical Margins: All surgical margins negative for definite
involvement by carcinoma; the anterior tip is close but negative
for definite carcinoma (see comment).

Lymph nodes: Total lymph node count for all specimens is 3 of 48
involved by metastatic squamous cell carcinoma, separately
submitted in specimens F, G and H.

Size of largest metastasis: 1.0 cm
Extra—capsular extension: focally present in specimens F and G

Other significant findings: The carcinoma is deeply invasive
into the skeletal muscle within the hemiglossectomy. The tumor
extends far anteriorly, very close to the anterior tip. In the
anterior tip, the carcinoma is present beneath an intact surface
squamous mucosa.

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT4a pNZb
NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information

available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:
The frozen section diagnoses are confirmed.

 

The surgical resection margins are free of definite involvement
by tumor. The tumor does extend deeply into the muscle of the
hemiglossectomy specimen and extends far anteriorly. An anterior
tip section was taken and submitted en face initially which
revealed a focus of submucosal invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
This section is subsequently bisected and submitted as
perpendicular sections revealing the invasive carcinoma to be
present beneath an intact anterior surface squamous mucosa. The
inked true margins in the anterior tip section are negative for
definite tumor.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

FSAl: Tongue base mucosa, biopsy
— Chronic inflammatory infiltrate. No tumor seen.

FSBl: Posterior ventral tongue, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSCl: Lower mouth mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSDl: Base of tongue, B, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSEl: Midline ventral tongue mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:, MD

Clinical History:
— with left sided tongue lesion; biopsy showed
moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.

Gross Description:
Received are nine appropriately labeled containers. Containers
A—E are received fresh for frozen section.

Container A holds a l x 0.4 x 0.4 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSAl, NTR.

Container B holds a 0. 0.5 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSBl,

Container C holds a 0. 0.3 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSCl,

Container D holds a 0. 0.3 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSDl,

Container E holds a l. 0.3 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSEl,

Container F is additionally labeled "left neck, Level 1." It
holds an 8.3 x 6.1 x 2.0 cm unoriented aggregate of brown/tan
fibroadipose tissue. There is 10.7 gram (4.9 x 2.9 x 1.7 cm)
gland. The outside surface is inked entirely in blue.

Nine lymph node candidates, ranging in size from 3.4 x 1.9 x 1.1
cm to 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm are identified. The largest node on
sectioning is white and firm with areas of hemorrhage. The
submandibular gland on sectioning is tan and lobulated.

Block summary:

F1 — largest node, representative sections

F2 — largest node, representative sections

F3,F4 — second largest node, serially sectioned and entirely
submitted

F5 — one lymph node, bisected

F6 — three lymph node candidates

F7 — three lymph node candidates

F8 — submandibular gland, representative sections

F9 — submandibular gland, representative sections

Container G is additionally labeled "left neck, Level 2." It
holds a 5.0 x 4.6 x 2.0 cm aggregate of brown/tan fibrofatty
tissue. There are three lymph node candidates palpated ranging
in size from 2.1 x 1.1 x 1.0 cm to 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. On
sectioning the largest node has a white/tan firm area. On
sectioning, the second largest node is homogeneously pink/tan.

Block summary:

G1 — largest node, representative sections
G2 — second largest node, serially sectioned
G3 — second largest node, serially sectioned
G4 — smallest node

Container H is additionally labeled "left neck Level 3." It
holds a 9.3 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm aggregate of brown/tan fibrofatty
tissue. The are twenty lymph node candidates palpated ranging in
size from 2.8 x 1.9 x 0.7 cm to 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. On
sectioning, the largest node is hemorrhagic.

Block summary:
H1,H2 — largest node, serially sectioned, entirely submitted

H3 — second largest node, bisected and entirely submitted
H4 — three lymph node candidates

H5 three lymph node candidates

H6 — three lymph node candidates
H7 — four lymph node candidates
H8 — five lymph node candidates

Container I is additionally labeled "left hemiglossectomy, long
stitch/lateral, short/anterior." It holds a 6.5 x 3.6 x 3.0 cm
segment of tongue with long stitch designating lateral and short
stitch designating anterior. The inking scheme is blue=lateral,
green=medial, black=deep. The surface of the tongue is patchy,
white with areas of firm micronodularity measuring 4.5 x 2.5 cm
in the lateral anterior segment. The remaining surface is
unremarkable. On sectioning, the tumor occupies approximately
70% of the total specimen. The tumor is white/tan and firm with
areas of hemorrhage. The tumor is 2.5 cm medial to lateral, 2.1
cm from the tongue surface to deep margin, 5.4 cm anterior to
posterior. The tumor grossly extends to the blue inked surface
which is representative of ulcerated tumor at the mucosal
surface and not a true margin, and also extends close to the
black inked deep margin. The tumor extends to within 0.4 cm of
the closest green inked medial margin. The tumor extensively
involves the lateral mucosal surface with extensive ulceration.
The tumor is white—tan and firm and extends far into the
anterior aspect of the specimen, very close to the anterior tip
of the resection specimen. The remaining uninvolved tongue is
tan—brown with a whorled muscular appearance.

Block summary:
I1 — anterior tip, initially submitted en face, subsequently

bisected as perpendicular margin specimen
I2 — posterior tip, en face

I3 — representative sections of tumor with all margins
I4 — tumor with closest green inked medial margin
I5 — tumor with closest blue inked lateral margin

I6 — tumor with closest black inked deep margin
I7 — mass with closest overlying tongue surface

