i

UUID: 4243EF14- 6AB3- 4E13- A854R4. IBFBQI
TCGA- Q-R A-701-9 DDOMSd

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmr“
Immmmmwmmmmml
ImmmwmwmummmmmmmmWMWWi

 

' Surgical Pathology {C

S urgical Pathology

..,tor__chromogranin A synaptophysin., and CD56 They are negative for

CASE NUMBER:
DIAGNOSIS:

l. Lymph node. portahepatic, resection (lFS): Reactive lymph node.
no tumor seen.

2. Soft tissue. retroperitoneal mass, resection: Consistent with
paragangiioma. See Note.

3. Lymph node, site not specified. resection: Lymph node with
artifact, no tumor seen.

NOTE: lmmunohi Istochemistry is performed. The tumor cells are positive

inhibin and AE1I’AE3 The histological features and immunohistochemicel
profile support the above diagnosis Tumor extends to the inked
margin.

lrnmunoperoxidase and in-situ hybridization tests performed here and used
for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Allocate Order to Protocol: ~ Brief
Clinical History:

Suspected paragangiioma Specimen Taken For Protocol;

01 — Yes

PROCEDURE: Pre~0perative Diagnosis; REtroperitoneal mass at the root of
thriasemtery Post~0perative Diagnosis: REtroperitoneal mass at the
Koztthe mesentery Operative Findings; REtroperitoneal mass at the

:19 the mesentery

Node, pare choledocal

SPECIMENS SUBMiTTED: l. LYMPH NODES, Portahepatic (1FS)
2. RETROPERITONEUM. SMA paragangiioma
3. LYMPH NODES

lNTRAOPERATlVE CONSULTATlON:
ii—‘S "Portahepatic lymph node frozen section"

lFS diagnosis: Reactive lymph node, no paraganglioma or tumor seen on
representative frozen section.

t’:=r.lit.icné‘i::i l‘niicrt irrerrrnsma. liinlriiimritxzf :::§<i:\'&r:r: .< i?f»‘ir.l>l mil in It

Final Results
Final

.: 2«'t\?».::izii Pow.) Actor ii)" i.

 

Requested By: i

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

1
Frozen section was diagnosed by I and on

GROSS DESCRIPTlONz Received are 3 containers labeled with the
patient‘s name, medical record number, and further specified as:

i. "Portahepatic lymph node frozen section" consists of ared-tan
soft tissue node measuring 1.8 x 1.4 x 0.4 cm. it is bisected and half
is frozen as . in Surgical Pathology. the frnmn sample is
transferred to an orange cassette labeled . The remainder
of the tissue is entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled

for permanent processing.

2. "SMA paraganglioma for research and permanent“ consists ofa
tan—pink nodular tissue measuring 5.8 x 4x4 cm and weighing 45.3
grams. The specimen has athin wispy tan capsule which wasinked in

black'flt—ifbisected” revealing a 'pinkared'softsolid-cut surface; '~ - -~—~ —“ -

Gross nhotnnraphs are taken. Approximately 50% of tissue is procured
for and A piece of the tissue representing
the mirror image of the tissue procured is placed into a green cassette
labeled "mass mirror image" and placed into formalin along with the
remaining half of the specimen for permanent. The procurement was
performed by and In

in Surgical Pathology. the specimen received matches the above
description. The specimen from the green cassette is transferred to

white cassette labeled » for permanent processing. The
remainder of the tissue is serially sectioned. Representative sections

are submitted in white cassettes labeled ' for permanent
processing.

3. "Lymph nodes for permanent" consists of a tan'black—yellow soft
tissue fragment measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely
submitted in a white cassette labeled ior permanent
processing.

Gross description dictated by .

No consultants

tlir‘tiricritiizi Patient intmnxii'irrn. Urialrtrlorl‘récd disclosure is: ;

Requested By: i

Dualisynchrorrous Primary N
Case is (circle); ~:

C‘s-sh, Unauld-nl

     
 
  

.o‘m‘ll i’rirnc} Artur i‘I/li.

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

