 

' ' ‘ ( nosis & Histo :
ith right renal mass

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: Kidney, right, satelite tumor, excision

2: Kidney. right, partial nephrectomy

3: Kidney, right, deep margin #1. excision
4: Kideny. right. deep margin #2; excision

 

DiAGNOSlS:

1. Kidney. right, "satelite tumor",excision:
Benign infra-renal (ectopic) adrenal tissue

2. Kidney, right, partial rte ph rectemy:

Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Comrentlonal (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade EillV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3.0 cm.

Local Invasion (for renal cortical types):
Not identiﬁed

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed
Tumor invades muscular branches of the renal vein in the renal hilum

Surgical Margins:

Tumor present at renal parenchymal margin (for partial nephrectomy specimens only)

(Not in the frozen section and the frozen section control. For ﬁnal margins see parts 3 and 4.)
Non~Neoplaslic Kidney:

Mild arteriosclerotic changes; a small medullary ﬁbroma

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
No1 identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomai’oncocytoma:
pTSb Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s} or vena cava beiow the diaphragm

 

Page 1 of 3

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

3. Kidney, right, deep margin #1, excision:
Benign kidney parenchyma

4.Kideny, right. deep margin #2; excision:
Benign ﬁbroadipose and urotheilel tissue

 

 

 

 

Sgeciai Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT
RECUT

M33 0930“ mm —

i. The specimen is received ire sh, labeled "satellite tumor right kidney” and consists of a single piece of brown soﬂ tissue
measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm. The is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U - undasignatad

2). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "right renal tumor. stitch marks deep margin". it consists of a 5.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm
wedge shaped portion of kidney with a suture marking the deep margin. The margin is inked black and the specimen is serially
sectioned to reveal one wall circumscribed bright-yetiow mass, measuring 8.0 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. The clearance From the resection
margin is less than 0.1 cm. A representative section of the nearest margin is submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

Ropresanleiiveiy submitted.

Summary of sections:

FSC ~ frozen section control
T - tumor

R8 - representative sections

3. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "deep margin # i, right renal tumor” and consists of a piece of brown soft tissue
measuring 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen submitted.

Summary of sections:

U I undesignatea _

4. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "deep margin if» 2, right renal tumor” and consists of a piece of brown soft tissue
measuring 1. x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen submitted.

Summary of sections:
U - undesignated

Summagg of Sections:

Part1: Kidney. right, satelite tumor, excision

 

Page 2 of 3

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Block Sect. Site 903
i u 1

Part 2: Kidney, rlght, partial nephrectomy

Block Sect. Site PCS
1 fee 1
2 rs 2
8 t 7

Part3: Kidney. right, deep margin #1,excision

Block Sect. Site P03
1 u “i

Part 4: Kideny, right, deep margin #2; excision

Block Sect. Site 905
‘l u 1

Intracpcrative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the
tissue sample examined at the time of the lntraoperallve
consultation.
2) FROZEN SECTION DlAGNOSlS: RENAL CORTECAL NEOPLASM. MARGlN FREE ON FROZEN SECTION (A THEN -

CAPSULE PRESENT AT MARGIN. SE
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: NAL

 

Page 3 of 3

END OF REPORT

