TCGA-26-5133

     

SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED/ PROCEDURES ORDERED:

A. Brain tumor uﬂﬂllﬁ A. Frozen Section Charge (sauna)

A. Glial Fibrill. Acid Prt (CINE!) A. KI—67, Ruclear Antigen, Mibl
(m) 3 Protein L“) A. Reticulin—Gordon&Sweet(m)
A. Neurofilament (Non—P) NF—NP (Gill?) A. Synaptophysin (GI!!!)

B. Brain tumor (

CLINICAL ﬂasher. for right erases... for
tumor. ‘

GROSS DESCRIPTION:I Received the following specimen in the Department of
Pathology, labeled with the patient's name and hospital #:

A. Brain tumor
B. Brain tumor
A. The specimen is received fresh labeled, "brain tumor," and consists

of multiple irregular and varying sized pieces of focally hemorrhagic
red—tan soft tissue measuring 3.2 x 2.2 X 0.7 cm in aggregate. A
representative portion of the tissue is submitted for frozen section.
Frozen section diagnosis, "malignant glioma, most likely glioblastoma,"
per - _ The frozen tissue is submitted for permanent processing

in cassette FSAl ive portion of the tissue is
submitted to the tumor bank for possible future
studies. The remainin tissue is entirely submitted in cassettes A2 and
A3. II!!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiI

B. T e speCimen is received fresh labeled, "brain tumor," and consists
of multiple irregular and varying sized pieces of focally hemorrhagic

beige—tan soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.5 Cm in aggregate. The
tissue is entirely submitted in cassette Bl. '

DIAGNOSIS:
A. "Brain tumor": .
Glioblastoma multiforme (WHO Grade IV astrocytoma)
B. "Brain tumor":
Glioblastoma multiforme (WHO Grade xv astrocytoma} (see
comment)

COMMENT: This markedly pleomorphic glioma contains areas of high
cellularity and brisk mitotic activity. There is vascular endothelial
proliferation and focal necrosis (A2) in this material from a tumor that
_was ring~enhancing on MRI. Some (but not all) tumor cells are strongly
immunoreactive for GFAP. The Ki—67 labeling index is quite high in areas
and the tumor is strongly immunoreactive for p53 protein. Only

perivascular reticulin is seen.

The presence of highly cellular foci having high
proliferative rate is reminiscent of a recently described subtype of
malignant glioma that contains primitive neuroectodermal tumor-like
(PNET—like) components.

Reference:
1. - at al. Malignant gliomas with primitive neuroectodermal

tumorulike components: a clinicopathologic and genetic study of 53 cases.

"I, or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination and
description and I have personally reviewed the gross description and
specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this

 
 
 

 

 

 

report."
Resident/Prosector/Pathologist: -

Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance
characteristics determined by Some tests
have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. These tests
are used for clinical purposes and should not be regarded as

investigational or for research: This laborator is certified under the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of _ as qualified

to ierform hiih comilexity clinical laboratory testing. a

Pathologist
Electronically signed _

 

