UUID: 41F07E95- 2D84- 47CB- B78D- BFBSDSCBDSGEE
TCGA A--55 A492- 51A- PR

ted
‘ . . a IIIIIIIIIIII||||||II|II|II|IIIIIIII|I||||||l|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIclll
mng thsnclan,
III IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||I|IIIIIII||IIIIIIIIIIII
allIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

DOB: ' Age: Gende

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - J.) LUNG, RIGHT. UPPER LOBE, HiLAR (N10R X 4), PERIBRONCHIAL (N11R),
LOWER PARATRACHEAL (N4R), PULMONARY LIGAMENT (NQR), AND
SUBCARINAL (N7) LYMPH MODES, WEDGE EXCISION WITH SUBSEQUENT
LOBECTOMY, AND LYMPH NODE EXCISIONS:

- INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED.
- 1.2 cm in greatest dimension.
- Visceral pleural invasion: NOT IDENTIFIED.

. MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.

- NINETEEN LYMPH MODES. NEGATIVE FOR METASTATIC CARCINOMA (0/19).
- Hyalinized nodules involving peribronchial and hilar lymph nodes,

consistent with old granulomas.
- SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor: pTla (1.2 cm in greatest dimension).
Regional lymph nodes: pNO (0/19 lymph nodes).

Distant metastasis: NIA. ‘ CD’OB
Pathologic stage: IA. CEO-CO oCaIC mom / NOS
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed. 3 (4013
Margin status: R0.
54¢: lun9,Lt10PerIOb€ (139.:
Lung Tumor Staging Information
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging C? 'l "I 2—
Handbook, 7th Ed and CAP protocol 20
Page ‘I
’FiNAL)

Pathoiogy Report — Page 1/5 ‘oc# 1

 

 

 

 

Procedure: Wedge excision with subsequent lohectomy and
lvmnh node exam
Specimen type: Lung. upper lobe.

Specimen iaterality:
Specimen integrity:

Tumor Features:
Tumor site:
Tumor size:
Tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Histologic grade:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Visceral pleural invasion:

Tumor extension into extra-pulmonary structures:

Treatment effect:
Lymph Nodes:

Margin Evaluation:
Distance to closest margin:
Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymai margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:
Other margins:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:
Primary tumor (p1):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):

Distant metastasis (pM):
Margin status (R):
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Pathology Report - Page 21:)

Right.
Intact.

Lung, right upper lobe.

1 .2 cm in greatest dimension.
Unifocal.

Adenocarcinoma.

Moderately differentiated

Not identiﬁed.

Not identified.

Not identified.

Conﬁned to the lung.

N/A.

Nineteen lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.
Negative, R0.

Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Not involved by carcinoma.
Not involved by carcinoma.
NIA.

N/A.

Not applicable.

pT1 a (1.2 cm in greatest dimension).
pNO (nineteen lymph nodes, negative for
metastasis).

NIA.

R0.

iA.

Emphysematous changes. Hyalinized nodules
within penbronchiai and hilar lymph nodes
consistent with old granuiomas.

Page 2
(FINAL)

y i’age 2 Doc# 1

 

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Lung;Wedge resection right upper lobe
B. Lymph node ‘ "

C. Lymph node

D. Lymph node:

E. Lymph node;

F. Lymph node;

G. Lung;Right upper lobe
H. Lymph node;i

i. Lymph node;i

J. Lymph node;

Clinical mama/Operative Dx:

Right pulmonary nodule

intraogerative Diagnosis:

A. Wedge resection right upper lobe: Adenocarcinoma. margins negative.

G. Right upper lobe: Bronchial margin negative for tumor _ The intraoperative
interpretation(s) waslwere performed and rendered at

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled wedge resection right upper lobe and is received without fixative. it consists of
a 12 x 4 x 2.5 cm wedge resection of lung tissue which has a partially fixed weight of 26 grams. The
pleural surface is pink-tan and is inked purple. On serial sectioning. within the pulmonary parenchyma,
there is a 1.2 cm pale tan demarcated nodule which is 0.3 cm from the staple line and 0.5 cm from the
pleural surface. A representative section of this nodule is submitted for frozen section as FSA. The
remaining pulmonary parenchyma is pale red and appears well-aerated. Representative sections are
submitted. Section summary: A1) tissue remaining from frozen section. A2) remainder of pulmonary
nodule. A3) lung tissue immediately adjacent to nodule, A4) uninvolved pulmonary parenchyma, A5)
representative sections along central staple line closest to nodule.

B. The specimen is labeled . and is received in formalin. it consists of a 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm
fragment of anihracotic appearing tissue and a 0.1 cm fragment of pale tan tissue. The specimen is
submitted in cassette Bl.

Page 3
times... (FiNAL)

Pathology Report - Page 315 Page 3 Doc# 1

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAE‘PATHULOGY RCPUKT

C. The specimen is labeled 2 and is received in formalin. it consists of a 0.4 cm fragment of dark
red to anthracotic tissue and a 0.1 cm fragment of tan tissue. The specimen is submitted in cassette Ct.

D. The specimen is labeled » and is received in formalin. it consists of two fragments of tan to
anthracotic tissue which vary from 0.5 cm in maximum dimension to 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The larger
fragment is inked. Both fragments are sectioned and the tissue is entirely submitted in cassette Di.

E. The specimen is labeled . and is received in formalin. it consists of a 0.4 cm fragment of tan in
anthracotic tissue which is submitted intact in cassette E1.

F. The specimen is labeled 1 and is received in formalin. it consists of a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm
fragment of slightly disrupted. red-brown tissue and a 0.1 cm fragment of anthracotic material. The largest
specimen is serially sectioned and combined with the anthracotic material in cassette F1.

G. The specimen is labeled right upper lobe and is received in formalin. it consists of a lobe of lung which
measures 18 x 5 x 4 cm and has a partially fixed weight of 112 grams. The pleural surfaces vary from pink
to pale red-violet and are smooth. A metallic staple line is present along the medial edge of the hilum of
the lung and a second staple line is present along the medial-anterior surface extending from the apical
portion inferiorty and is 11.5 cm in length. The entire pleural surface is inked blue. At the hllum, the
bronchial margin is identiﬁed and removed as a thin shave for frozen section as BFS. There are
approximately six dark brown anthracotic peribronchial nodes. Dissection of the bronchi reveal no
intrabronchiai tumor. The pulmonary parenchyma is dark red and appears welt-aerated and there are no
other palpable masses. The presumed staple line from specimen A above is 2 cm from the closest
bronchial margin. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary: Gt) bronchial and partial
vascular margins from frozen section. 62) additional vascular margin. G3) peribronchlal nodes. G4)
additional sections along anterior medial staple line. GS) additional apical lung tissue, GS) central lung
parenchyma, GT) representative basilar lung parenchyma.

H. The specimen is labeled nd is received in formalin. it consists of a slightly disrupted fragment of
lobulated fatty tissue measuring 4.2 x 2 x 1.3 cm. On gentle dissection, there is a single tan and partially
anthracotic possible node which measures 2.4 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. in the associated fatty tissue, there are four
possible pale red additional nodes varying from 0.308 cm. The largest possible is serially sectioned and
submitted in cassette H1. The smaller possible nodes are submitted intact in cassette H2.

l. The specimen is labeled and is received in formalin. it consists of a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm fragment of
ten to anthracotic tissue which is submitted intact in cassette H.

J. The specimen is labeled and is received in formalin. It consists of two fragments of gray-tan and
anthracotic tissue varying from 0.84 cm in maximum dimension. The tissue fragments are inked with
contrasting colors. They are sectioned and submitted in cassette J1.

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

Page 4
. (FlNALl

Pathology Report ~ Page 4r5 - Page 4 Doc# 1

 

i
l
l

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

3. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.
C. Sections demonstrate one iymph node. negative for metastasis.

0. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis. in addition, within the node are
multiple round hyalinized nodules, consistent with old granulomata.

E. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.

F. Sections demonstrate one lymph node. negative for metastasis.

G. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Six peribronchial lymph nodes are identiﬁed, and are negative for metastasis. in addition. two
lymph nodes demonstrate round hyaiinized nodules. consistent with old granulomata.

H. Sections demonstrate ﬁve lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.

I. Sections demonstrate one lymph node, negative for metastasis.

J. Sections demonstrate 2 lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.

 
 
 
 
 

irked:

)iagnosis Discrepancy
'rlmary Tumu! Site Discrepancy
"PM Discrepancy

~rinr Malignancy Hismrv H:—

Jual/Synchmnous Primlrv m

 
 
    
 
       

Pathoiogy Report - Page 5/5

