 

I
III
I

UUID:6E2F9CE1-6048-42DF-8737-64ED535F8646
TCGA-GB-ABCG—BlA-PR Redacted

llllllllHIlllllHllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllll
ll lllllllllllHlllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllilllllll lllll

/ CA ~0 , 3 MRN:
1W mpwa/Mw, Nos rt 70/3 ggg
51h : Zed“, C 9.2.0 W DOB/Gender:
/ o//$/I' Telephone:

Encounter:

 

 

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date:
Pathologist:

Specimen Description

A. Gallbladder
B. Liver tumor— 08
C. Liver tumor - 26 9

Clinical Information
Cirrhosis, hepatitis, liver tumor.

- my man» ,

 

Diagnosis

A: Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy:
- Chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis

description)

: Liver, Liver Tumor, Biopsy:
- Hepatocellular carcinoma

: Liver, Liver Tumor, Resection:

(please see microscopic

- Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated
- Trabecular and pseudoglandular morphology with areas of clear

cells

Tumor size 2.5 cm in greatest dimension
Positive resection margin
Lymphvascular invasion is not identified

 

Cr‘.‘

 
 
    

 
 

)iaunosis Discrepanry
Tumor

  

llPAA
'nor

:an is
\eVlewer initial:

 
 
   

Pathology: Provider

  
  

 

 

 

1,4.) M/r 5/1!

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

‘SurgiCal' Pathology Repert- ' '

 

 

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date:
Pathologist:

- Uninvolved liver with cirrhosis and extensive lymphocytic
inflammation and steatosis

- Clinical history of hepatitis C

- Please see synoptic report

 

Synoptic Report

C: Liver, Resection, Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Hepatocellular carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
Gil: Moderately differentiated
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT1: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pNX: Cannot be assessed
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed
MARGINS:
Parenchymal margin involved by invasive carcinoma
*VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) lNVASlON (V):
*Absent
*ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:
*Cirrhosis/fibrosis

Gross Description

Received are specimens A to C. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name
‘ ' " The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number

 

Cc:

Pathology: Provider — Permanent
Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

surgical Pathologv nelson

 

Accession Number:
Collected Date:
Pathologist:

A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists of an intact gallbladder
measuring 8.3 x 4.2 x 1.5 cm. The serosal surface is tan, smooth and glistening and the adventitial surface is tan and
roughened. The cystic duct resection margin is identified and is patent. The cystic duct lymph node is not grossly
identified. Multiple tan/green friable calculi are identified in the lumen measuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The
mucosal surface is green and slightly velvety with yellow speckling. The wall thickness of the gallbladder ranges from 0.1
to 0.6 cm. Specimen serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 and A2, cassette A1
representing the cystic duct resection margin and sections from the neck, body and fundus, and A2 representing further
sections from the thickened wall.

B. The specimen consists of a 1 cm long core of yellow tissue which is submitted in toto for Q8.

C. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists a portion of liver weighing 26
grams and measuring 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. The resection margin is marked with blue dye. The serosal surface of the liver
has a congested and slightly nodular appearance. A fan and lobular lesion is identified on the cut surface and extends up
to the blue-inked resection margin as well as to the serosal surface. This mass measures 3.5 x 3.1 x 2.8 cm.

Sections are submitted as follows:

Ct-C2 contiguous sections bisected representing the mass in relationship with the blue—inked resection margin and the
serosal surface .

CS lesion and blue-inked resection margin at the pleural surface

C4—C6 further representative sections from the lesion and grossly unremarkable parenchyma

Please note a portion of the specimen is submitted for tumor banking.

Frozen Section Diagnosis

B. Liver Tumor:
— Hepatocellular carcinoma

Reported by:

Microscopic Description

A. Microscopic sections show a focal granuloma within the wall of the gallbladder. The granuloma has foamy histiocytes.
Further levels of this section lose this are. The granuloma is most likely consistent to a foreign body reaction which is
commonly seen as a lipid granuloma.

 

Cn‘

Pathology: Provider - Permanent
Page 3 of 4

 

 

' ”sump-at Dhthhlan Report

 

l

Accession Number:

Collected Date:
Pathologist:

C: Microscopic sections show an ill-defined mass arising in the liver. The architecture of the mass includes a trabecular,
solid, and pseudoglandular areas. There are also areas of clear cell change. The trabecular plates are greater than four
cells thick in areas. There is hemorrhage that surrounds the tumor, as well as a focal area of infarct. The mass is present
at the surgical resection margin. The nuclear features of the hepatocellular carcinoma include higher N/C ratio with
hyperchromatic nuclei and pleomorphism. The cytoplasm, in areas, is strongly eosinophilic, while in others, shows a clear
cell change. lmmunostains are pending.

The uninvolved liver shows a cirrhotic pattern. There are nodules of hyperplastic hepatocytes surrounded by fibrous
septae that are heavily inflamed. The portal tracts are present and occasionally involved by a periportal lymphocytic
inflammation. Steatosis is also identified. Special stains illustrate the fibrosis surrounding the nodules consistent with
cirrhosis. The reticulin stains show loss of the two cell thick hepatocyte plates. There is no hemosiderin or PAS diastase
resistant inclusions identified.

 

Pathology: Provider - Permanent
Page 4 of 4

