SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number:

Diagnosis:

MAO-3

Wm, WM/ N05
§I+L.MMW 654/ 8330/3

J/l/H
M

A: Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy

Location of tumor: endometrium, anterior and posterior, 5.1 cm in greatest dimension

Histologic type: endometrioid with squamous differentiation and associated calcifications

 

 

 

Histologic grade (FIGO): FIGO grade 2 (architectural grade 2, nuclear grade 2)

Extent of invasion: myometrium

Myometrial invasion: Inner half
Depth: 3 mm Wall thickness: 12 mm Percent: 25%

Serosal involvement: none identified

Lower uterine segment involvement: present, anterior and posterior
Cervical involvement: none identiﬁed

Adnexal involvement (see below): present

Other sites: not applicable

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: widely free of tumor
Lymphovascular Space Invasion: none identified

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):

Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 14

Other Pathologic ﬁndings: none identified

 
   
 
 
 

Crklru
bi: msis Discrepancy
Pr milry Tumo' 'Site m we pancy
hIPAA Disue ancy
Fri or Mali n: my H' story

Dull/S nchr ronaus Pr mi: ﬂ

  

UUID: 4AD600AE- "ICEO- ABBA- BAFC- OEBSCAEBSMB
TCGA- EY- A1GX- 01A- PR

IllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllll|Illlllllllllllllllllklllllllllll6ad
lIllIllllllll|||||lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
m{lllllllllllll‘lllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllll

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry results:

Estrogen receptor: Positive in 30% of tumor cells; half of positive nuclei 1+, other half 2-3+
Progesterone receptor: Positive in 70% of tumor cells; two thirds of positive nuclei 1+, one third 2—3+

AJCC Pathologic stage: pT3a pNO
FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: lllA

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- Epithelial inclusion cyst and physiologic changes.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- No specific pathologic abnormality.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- Metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma, extending from luminal surface into wall of fallopian tube.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- Fragments of endometrioid adenocarcinoma floating free in lumen of fallopian tube (see comment).

B: Lymph nodes, right periaortic, dissection
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4).

C: Lymph nodes, left periaortic, dissection
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

D: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4).

E: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4).

Comment:

lmmunostain for cytokeratin AE1/AE3 was performed on the section containing left fallopian tube (A10) to confirm that
the atypical cells in the lumen are epithelial and not inflammatory. The immunostain is strongly positive, supporting the
presence of endometrioid adenocarcinoma in the lumen.

Clinical History:
with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is labeled "Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries" .
Adnexa: Yes (left = attached, right = detached)

Weight: 175.6 g
Shape: Pear-shaped

Block Summary:

A1 - Cervix anterior

A2 - Cervix, posterior, bisected section

A3,A4- Tumor, greatest invasion

AS - Tumor, underlying hemorrhagic myometrium
A6 - Anterior lower uterine segment and tumor
A7 - Posterior lower uterine segment and tumor
A8 - Right ovary

A9 - Right fallopian tube

A10 - Left ovary and left fallopian tube

Container B is labeled "right periaortic nodes“. It holds a 3.1 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm fragment of yellow lobulated adipose tissue.
Within the fragment it holds four lymph node candidates measuring up to 3 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph
nodes are submitted in three cassettes 81-83.

Block Summary:
Bl, BZ - One lymph node candidate each cassette
B3 - Two lymph node candidates

The remaining fat is retained in formalin.

Container C is labeled "left periaortic nodes". It holds multiple fragments of yellow lobulated adipose tissue 1.4 x 1.0 x
0.4 cm in aggregate. These fragments are palpated to reveal two lymph node candidates 0.6 cm in greatest dimension
each. The lymph nodes are submitted in C1,

Container D is labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes". It holds a 6.1 x 3.3 x 1.5 cm aggregated of yellow lobulated adipose
tissue. Palpated within this specimen are multiple lymph node candidates measuring up to 2 cm in greatest dimension.
The lymph node candidates are submitted in four cassettes D1-D4.

Block Summary:

Dl - Multiple lymph node candidates

D2 - Two lymph node candidates

D3, D4 - One lymph node candidate each cassette

The remaining fat is retained in formalin.

Container E is labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes". It holds a 4.1 x 2.8 x 1.3 cm aggregated of yellow lobulated adipose
tissue. The specimen has four lymph node candidates; the largest is 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node
candidates are submitted in five cassettes E1-E5.

Block Summary:

E1 — One lymph node candidate

E2 — Two lymph node candidates

E3-E5 - One lymph node candidate serially sectioned

. Dimensions:

height: 5.2 cm

anterior to posterior width: 7.0 cm

breadth at fundus: 5.0 cm

Serosa: Tan/brown and glistening

Cervix: (Received amputated from the corpus) 2.2 x 1.5 cm, amputated to depth of 2.5 cm, and has a 0.4 cm patent 05
length of endocervical canal: 2.3 cm

ectocervix: Tan/white with focal erythema

endocervix: Tan and trabeculated

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 4.0 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 5.0 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 5.1 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm

appearance: Tan/white, soft, friable, exophytic

location and extent: Both anterior and posterior wall

myometrial invasion:

outer one-half:

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 0.4 cm

other findings or comments: The uninvolved myometrium is notable for a 2.0 cm area of intramyometrial hemorrhage.
There is normal appearing endometrium at the anterior and posterior lower uterine segments which is tan/pink ﬁrm and
up to 0.2 cm thick.

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 1.3 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm

outer surface: Tan/pink, smooth with a single 0.4 cm, in greatest dimension, firm nodule. The nodule in section has a
white, firm cut surface.

cut surface: Tan/yellow and firm There is a single 0.4 cm in greatest dimension thin walled watery filled cyst

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: Fimbriated, 4.0 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter
outer surface: Tan pink and glistening

cut surface: Patent unremarkable lumen

other findings:

Left ovary:

dimensions: 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm

external surface: Tan and smooth

cut surface: Tan, firm and unremarkable

Fallopian tube:

dimensions: 0.8 cm in length x <O.2 cm in diameter
outer surface: Red/brown and glistening

cut surface: pin point apparent lumen

other findings:

Specimen is sampled in ten cassettes A1-A10.

4

Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.
Signature Attending Pathologist: l have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

