SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
A: Kidney, left, partial nephrectomy

Tumor histologic type/subtype: clear cell renal cell carcinoma
Sarcomatoid features: not identified

Histologic grade (if applicable): 2 (of 4, Fuhrman classification)
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.5 cm diameter

Tumor focality: unifocal

Extent of invasion:

Extra-capsular invasion into perirenal adipose tissue: not identified
Venous (large vessel): not identified

Lymphatic (small vessel): not identified

Surgical margins:
Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): not involved

Renal capsular margin (partial nephrectomy only): not involved
Perinephric adipose tissue margin (partial nephrectomy only): not involved

Adrenal gland: not received
Lymph nodes: none received
Other significant findings: none
AJCC Stage: ple pNx pr

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

B: Fat, overlying mass, biopsy
- Mature fat, no carcinoma identified.

Clinical History:
a left renal mass.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "left partial nephrectomy." It holds a 62.7 gram, 6.5 x 5.4 x 3.6 cm partial nephrectomy specimen
composed of a 5.4 x 4.2 x 2.8 cm fragment of kidney with overlying attached perinephric fat. The parenchymal margin is marked with black
ink and the perinephric fat margin is marked with blue ink. The specimen is sectioned to reveal a 5.5 x 3.8 x 3.2 cm circumscribed cortical
nodule with a solid, variegated dark red to orange/brown cut surface. This nodule focally abuts multiple black inked surgical margins and
expands the capsule. The overlying perinephric fat appears intact and unremarkable. The small amount of renal tissue identified is
compressed and grossly unremarkable. Tumor and normal are given to Tissue Procurement.

Block Summary:

A1 - perpendicular sections of tumor and black inked parenchymal margin
A2 - tumor expanding capsule

A3 - tumor and overlying capsule (inked blue)

A4,A5 - central tumor

Container B is additionally labeled "fat overlying tumor." It holds a 2.7 x 1.9 x 0.6 cm fragment of markedly cauterized unoriented
yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue which is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in blocks B1-B2, NTR.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

