.133E>C>ﬁ35 K
"um=.E22:a':.s::a°:v-sn9;:9“migrant... 1%” are ... a}
simmerm'.1::uwanar.u'.'.r.'rr.'.menar.'.'.1'.::wmw" W“; m. ””5
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIII||IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 6411 \- ‘ @573

(3¢/3 ﬁjgjll‘f

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: : (Age: ) Visit #: Resulted:
GenderzF Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

Surgical Pathology consultation Report

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
1. Thymus: thymus glandand thymoma stitch on right pleura and right
lower pole

DIAGNOSIS
1. Thymus gland ‘
a) Thymoma exhibiting focal minimal microscopic invasion into
immediately adjacent
extra—capsular connective tissue.
See comment. ~
b) Margins of specimen — No tumor involvement.
c) Adjacent non—neoplastic thymus
i) Involutional changes consistent with patient's age
ii) No significant lymphoid hyperplasia

COMMENT

Examination of this material indicates apparent complete resection of a
5.5 cm thymoma of Predominantly mixed (Lattes/Bernatz)[Cortical (Muller
Hermelink)/Type 32 (WHO) type. In a couple of areas there is minimal
direct extension beyond the confines of the external capsule into the
immediately adjacent fibroadipose tissue. The external margins of the
specimen as indicated by prior AgN03 application.are clear of tumor
involvement.

ELECTRONlCALLY VERIFIED BY:

CLINICAL HISTORY
Mediastinal tumour

GROSS DESCRIPTION
The specimen container labeled with the patient' 3 name and as "thymus
gland and thymoma stitch on right pleura and right lower pole", contains

Status: complete Page: 1 of 2

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Age: .) Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F Location:
'. Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

a portion of fatty tissue with a firm lobular mass at one end and
oriented with a stitch on the right pleura. The entire specimen measures
12.0 cm. SI x 4.5 cm ML x 3.0 cm AP. The lobular mass measure 5.5 cm SI
x 4.5 cm-ML x 3.0 cm AP. The mass is within the lower pole and the
anteriorly covered by smooth shiny membrane. The entire specimen
surfaces are painted with silver nitrate. On sectioning the cut surface
of the mass is solid and homogenous yellowish—white. The rest of the
tissue is grossly unremarkable thymic tissue. Sections are submitted as
follows: w

-1A—1C lobular mass with anterior surface

lD—lF lobular mass with posterior surface

1G-1I superior pole grossly normal tissue

Status: complete ,Page: 2 of 2

is
R aviewer

 

