TCGA—38—4528
— =—

iagnosis:

Lymph node, right hilar (R10), biopsy.
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.
Hyalinized granulomata.

I

; Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy.

Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma._

Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving 1 (of 4)'hilar lymph node.

Hyalinized and partially calcified granulomata involving hilar lymph nodes and pulmonary parenchyma.

U:

| l

C: Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy.
Multiple (2) lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma.
Hyalinized granulomata.

l

1

D: Lymph node, right mainstem bronchus, biopsy.
— One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.

— Hyalinized granulomata.

S: Lymph node. R9, biopsy.

— One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.

F: Lymph node, station 7, biopsy.
— One lymph node, negative for carcinoma.

Comment:

See light microscopy template for additional prognostic and staging information.
Intraoperative Consultation:

A frozen section consultation was requested by Dr.

anl: Lymph node, right hilar (R10), biopsy
— Lymph node with anthracotic pigment, no neoplasm identified

.81: Right upper lobe mass, lobectomy
~ Noncsmall cell carcinoma

FSBZ: Bronchial margin, right upper lohectomy
— no neoplasm identified
Clinical History:

The patient has a right upper lobe mass.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A: Received fresh for frozen section is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm dark red soft tissue fragment which is
bisected. one half was previously frozen as FSAl and is submitted in block FSAl. The remainder of the tissue is
submitted in block A1.

Container B is additionally labeled “RUL.”

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobectomy

Size of specimen: approximately 12.8 x 9.? x 2.0 cm

Weight of specimen: 130.5 grams

Other attached structures: none

Tumor location: central—near bronchial margin

Tumor size: 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.3 cm

=1ationship of tumor to bronchus: does not grossly appear to involve bronchus, however, it appears to be
owing around the bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 0.3 cm

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: not invading the pleura, 0.2 cm

 

 

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins:

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: Present, two small pleural nodules are '
identified; one is 0.4 cm in diameter and is approximately 5.2 cm from the main tumor mass. The second mass is

4 cm in diameter and is 3.1 cm from the main tumor mass.
Involvement of attached structures by tumor: not identified

Description of nontumorous lung: Sectioning the remainder of the lung exhibits soft, spongy, red aerated lung
parenchyma with possible post—obstructive changes.

Comment: The bronchial margin was inked black along with a staple line. The bronchial margin was previously
frozen. A portion of the tumor was given to Tissue Procurement (3 x 2.8 x 2.3 cm). A portion of the mass was
preViously frozen as F381 and is submitted in block F581. The bronchial margin was previously frozen as F532
and is submitted in block FSBZ.

BlOck Summary:

81 - additional bronchial margin (superseded by frozen section)

32 — bronchial lymph node candidate

B3 - tumor and bronchus

B4 — tumor and adjacent lung

BS — tumor and pleura

B6 ~ nodule closest to main tumor mass, bisected

B? a nodule furthest from main tumor mass, bisected

BB — representative lung with possible post-obstructive changes

39 a uninvolved lung

Container C is additionally labeled "Rd." It holds a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm aggregate of two fragments of red/gray
tissue. J

Container D is additionall labeled "mainstem bronchus lymph node." It holds a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm fragment of
dark gray tissue. ‘

Container E is additionally labeled "R9." It holds a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm fragment of gray/tan tissue. _

“ontainer F is additionally labeled "station 7." It holds a 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm fragment of dark gray/brown soft
LSSUE. )

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

(Specimen B)

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification): adenocarcinoma

Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification): moderately differentiated
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.5 cm

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: surgical margins, including bronchial resection margin, appear
negative for carcinoma

Pleural involvement: negative for carcinoma
In situ carcinoma: not identified

Invasion:

angiolymphatic - not identified

perineural H present

Lymph nodes {by node group): - Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving 1 (of 5) hilar lymph node.
— Multiple (2, R4; 1, right mainstem bronchus; 1. R9; 1, station 7) lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma.

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: not identified

Findings in nontumorous lung: hyalinized granulomata

 

