UUID: 6E5C4ACB-C81C-4AE3- 5060- E354CFEF08Aeed
TCGA- MU- A51Y- BlA- PR

ted
||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||I|||||lIIIIIII||||I|||IIIIIIIIIIIII

ORIGINAL REPORT:

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

/ C I) ~ 0 / 3 ‘
SPECIMEN(S): a \, WM all, mdw‘N’Z/Wi, “”5
I 7 Jim/3
A: Specimen pending ‘ ,
5/h, (Lav/7x [mu c 53/)
B: Right pelvic lymph node Ad
I
C: Left lymph nodes, pelvic / D/V/I 3’
D: Left pelvic lymph node
E: Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes, ovaries and upper vagina
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
A. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, lymph node dissection:
- No evidence of malignancy in 11 lymph nodes (0/11).
B. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, lymph node dissection (including BFSl):
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/2).
C. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, lymph node dissection:
— No evidence of malignancy in 12 dissected lymph nodes (0/12).
D. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, lymph node dissection (including DFSl):
- No evidence of malignancy in two lymph nodes (0/2). W“ m N, I
Diagnoiis Discn: cap ncy ____‘_____ _____‘_,,,__.-. Ev“;
i'umarvl‘umorsiet eDi.c mam-y _. ”ygﬁ
" b:::: M: :7“
a: S ""‘e'V NCSALITIED IZrlf.{1U;\LIFIE'_A_I:::__:?‘::LZ1
' "Lemed: *7/01“,

 

 

ﬂ)

E. Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and upper vagina,
hysterectomy, salpingectomy:
- Cervix with invasive, moderately differentiated squamous

cell carcinoma, with papillary features.

Extending into periuterine soft tissue.

Invasive 1.8 of 2.1 cm thick resection.

Associated with lymphovascular space invasion.

Peripheral and vaginal margins of resection free of malignancy.

Vaginal cuff with no histologic abnormality.

Endometrium with proliferative pattern.

Myometrium with adenomyosis.

Right and left fallopian tubes with no histologic abnormality.

COMMENT:
:ase Summary
Specimen: Cervix, uterine corpus, right fallopian tube: left fallopian
tube
Procedure: Radical hysterectomy
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.3 cm, additional dimensions: 2.3 x 1.8
cm
Histologic Type Squamous cell carcinoma, nonkeratinizing
Histologic Grade: 62: Moderately differentiated

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Pathologic Staging pTZa N0
Primary Tumor (pT): pTZal [IIA1]: Clinically visible lesion d4.0 cm
in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): : No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 27
Number of Lymph Nodes Involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

I have personally reviewed all specimens and or slides, including the
listed special stains, and used them with my medical judgement to

determine the ﬁnal diagnosis.

CLINICAL HISTORY:
The patient is 3 year-old woman with invasive squamous cell carcinoma
of the cervix. Operative Procedure: Radical

hysterectomy with bilateral salpingectomy.

GROSS:

A. The first container is additionally labeled " right pelvic lymph
node" and consists of three fragments of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
which measure in aggregate 4.5 x 3.7 x 2.0 cm. Eleven potential lymph
nodes ranging in size form 0.2 up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension are

identified. All lymph nodes are submitted intact.

Summary of Sections:
A1 — three potential lymph nodes intact.
A2 - four potential lymph nodes intact.

A3 - four potential lymph nodes intact.

B. The second container is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph
node" and is received fresh for frozen section analysis. The specimen
consists of a red-tan fragment of fibroadipose tissue which measures 2.0
x 1.7 x 0.4 cm. Two lymph nodes are identified within the specimen.

All tissue is submitted for frozen section diagnosis BFSl. The frozen

section remnant is submitted in the identically labeled cassette.

C. The third container is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph

nodes" and consists of two fragments of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue
which measure in aggregate 5.3 x 4.8 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is
dissected revealing 12 potential lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.3 to

1.7 cm in greatest dimension.

Summary of Sections:
C1 - one bisected lymph node (inked black), and two intact lymph nodes.
C2 — one bisected lymph node (inked black), and two intact lymph nodes.

C3 - six lymph nodes, intact.

D. The next container is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes"

and is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis. The specimen
consists of a 1.3 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm aggregate of fibroadipose tissue in

which two lymph nodes are identified. Entire specimen is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as DlFS. The frozen section remnant is

submitted in identically labeled cassette.

E. (The next container is additionally labeled "uterus, cervix,

bilateral fallopian tubes and upper vagina and is received fresh for
TPF. The specimen consists of a 100 gm radical hysterectomy specimen
which measures 8.0 cm from fundus to cervix x 2.7 cm from anterior to
posterior x 3.2 cm from cornua to cornua. The specimen includes an
associated vaginal cuff, which measures 0.8 cm on the anterior aspect of
the specimen and 1.9 cm on the posterior aspect of the specimen. The
right fallopian tube measures 6.7 x 0.5 cm and the left fallopian tube
measures 6.1 x 0.6 cm. There is associated right parametrial tissue
which measures 2.7 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm and left parametrial tissue which
measures 3.1 x 2.1 x 0.8 cm. The vaginal cuff margin has been inked
blue, and the cervical and lower uterine soft tissue resection margins

have been inked black.

The specimen is bivalved revealing a cervical mass which measures 2.9 x
2.3 x 1.4 cm and involves approximately 80 percent of the circumference
of the cervix. At the greatest depth of invasion, the tumor is 1.4 cm
deep in a cross—section that measures 2.3 cm to the nearest inked

resection margin. The cervical mass expands and then infiltrates

towards the lower uterine segment. The remainder of the endometrium is
golden tan in color and without additional masses or lesions. The
myometrium is tan—pink and exhibits a normal whorled appearance without
identifiable lesions. The average endometrial thickness is 0.2 cm and

the average myometrial thickness is 1.4 cm.

The right fallopian tube has a uniform caliber on cross-section, and one
potential paratubal cyst is identified. Cross-sections of the left
fallopian tube reveal a normal caliber throughout without identified

masses or lesions.

The external surfaces of the uterus are smooth, glistening, tan-pink in
color, and intact. Dissection of the right and left parametria reveal
no discrete masses or lesions. Serial sections through the superior

portion of the endomyometrium reveal no masses or lesions.

Representative tissue was procured for potential future studies from

specimen E.

Summary of Sections:

E1 - representative right fallopian tube.
E2 - representative left fallopian tube.
E3 — right parametrial margin, en face.
E4 — left parametrial margin, en face.

E5 - anterior endomyometrium, full thickness.

E6 - posterior endomyometrium, full thickness.

E7-E9 — tumor, representative full thickness.

E10 - anterior lower uterine segment with potential tumor, 2 fragments.
E11 — posterior lower uterine segment to potential tumor, 1 fragment.
E12 - remainder of anterior vaginal cuff margin, en face.

E13 — remainder of posterior vaginal cuff margin, en fact.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
BFS Lymph node, right pelvic, excision:

- Negative for carcinoma (0/2)

DFS Lymh node, left pelvci, lymlph node dissection:

— Negative for carcinoma (0/2)

MICROSCOPIC:

prSections of the cervix show moderately differentiated invasive
squamous cell carcinoma. In some areas, the surface of the cervix
demonstrates a papillary pattern. The tumor invades focally beyond the
thick-walled vessels of the uterine vascular plexus, indicative of

minimal and focal extrauterine extension. Lymphovascular space invasion
is identified. Definitive perineural invasion is not present. The

tumor invades 1.8 cm of a 2.1 cm thick uterine resection. The remainder
of the lower uterine segment, endometrium, and myometrium are

unremarkable. Permanent sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis.

