UUID: 50C8217A- 6834- 46E9- 9727- 53633D37347eDd

IllIl|||IllllllllllllllllllllllllllII||||||||||||ll|l|l||||||||||||

ll IIIIIIIllllllII llllIIIIIIIIlIIIIlIIlIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIHI IIIIII
III IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII II III! II Hill I IIIIIII III IIIIIII I II II III

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

imary. tumor S tr: Di nceranW
PM DIS regency
I07

   
  

tel;
Iiewei Initials

 
 

Date Reviewed:

    

A) “lag/H ADMITTED:
PT LOCATION;
/ c a y a ' 3 ADMITTING PROVIDER:
Warm , iW‘H/l Mas 8’3 80/3 :ITQGED

541.: WWW («SW-I A) ”/aq/M

 

I l

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

COLLECTED DATE /T|ME RECENED DATE ITIME ACCESQIDN NUMBER

Clinical Information
Endometrial cancer.

Diagnosis
A. Excision, Sigmoid nodule:
Nodular fat necrosis consistent with Infarcted epiploica; no evidence of tumor.

8. Total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salplngo-oophorectomy:
Uterus and cervix (94 grams):
Endometrial adenocarclnoma, endometrioid type, FIGO 3, see summary.

Other findings:

Cervix: chronic Inflammation and posterior cervical endosalpingiosis.

Endometrium (background): atypical hyperplasia and separate atrophic endometrial polyp.
Myometrium: without diagnostic abnormality.

Serosa: without diagnostic abnormality.

Bilateral ovaries: multiple surface inclusion cysts.

Bilateral fallopian tubes: without diagnostic abnormality.

SUMMARY FOR ENDOMETRIAL NEOPLASMS:
Specimen(s) submitted and Procedure(s): uterus cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes, bilateral ovaries, omentum,
peritoneal nodules, and regional lymph nodes; total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy, omentectomy, peritoneal nodule resections, regional lymph node dissections.
Specimen integrity: intact, bivalved.
Histologic type: endometrioid.
Histologic'grade: FIGO 3.
Tumor size: anterior: 4.5 cm; posterior: 3.5 cm.
Myometrial invasion: present, outer half.
Depth of invasion: 9 mm.
Myometrial thickness: 17 mm.
involvement of cervix: not appreciated.
Lower uterine segment involvement: present, small focus.
Lymphatic vascular space involvement: not appreciated.
Extent of involvement of other organs: none.
Margins: free of tumor.
Summary, cytology: negative, see separate report(s).
Summary, lymph node dissections: negative, as follows:

 

Confidentiality of the meducat record shall be maintained except when use or disclosure Is required or permitted by law. regulation. or written authorization by the ;

PAGE 1 OF 6

 

‘—

MRNI
FIN?

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

 

 

COLLECTED DATE /TIME RECEIVED DATE ITIME ACCESSION NUMBER

All regions: Total positive/total removed: (0/25).
Pelvic lymph nodes: Total positive/total removed: (0/19).
Para-aortic lymph nodes: Total positive/total removed : (0/6).

Additional pathologic findings: as above.
Summiﬁliillary studies requested/obtained: tissues submitted for -andnes
Sum ary, linlcal history: see electronic medical record.

Distant metastasis(es): unknown.
AJCC 7th edition Pathologlc Staging: pT1b pNO pMX FIGO stage IB grade 3.

C. - K. Regional lymph node resections:
No evidence of tumor in a total of twenty five lymph nodes (0/35), as follows:
. Left external iliac lymph nodes: (0/1).
. Left obturatorlymph nodes: (0/4).
Left external lllac lymph nodes: (013).
Left common lymph nodes: (0/3); lntranodal smooth muscle proliferation. hilar.
. Left periaortic lymph nodes: (013).
. Right external iliac lymph nodes: (013); endosalpingiosis.
Right obturator lymph nodes: (0/3).
J. Right common lymph node: (012).
K. Right periaortic lymph nodes: (0/3).

TIOWWUO

L. Biopsy, Transverse colon:
Nodular fat necrosis, no evidence of tumor.

M. Omentectomy:
Cystic fat necrosis; no evidence of tumor.

N. Biopsy, Right labia:
Squamous mucosa with focal very mild chronic inflammation and minute deep focus of perivascular lymphocytic
inflammation. .

v
I

Intraoperative Consultation
CD. Recommend microscopic evaluation.
H. Recommend microscopic evaluation of entire node. Reported to

 

Conhaenumy 0! INS medical recon: shall 0e maintained except when use or disclosure is recurred or permitted bylaw. regulation. or written authorization by lha patient

PAGE 2 or 6

MRN:
FIN:

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

COLLECTED DATE /TIME RECEIVED DATE / TIME ACCESSION NUMBER

Specimen

. Sigmoid nodule

. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries

. Left external iliac lymph nodes

. Left obturator lymph nodes

. Left external iliac lymph nodes

. Left common lymph nodes

. Left periaortic lymph nodes

. Right external iliac lymph nodes
Right obturator lymph nodes

. Right common lymph node

. Right periaortic lymph nodes

L. Transverse colon

M. Omentum

N. Right labia majora biopsy

XLT‘IO'DI'TIUOCD}

Gross Description

A. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "sigmoid nodule" is a tan-yellow, smooth soft
tissue bit measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension with a 0.3 cm in length, 0.1 cm in diameter stalk~like structure attached.
The specimen is bisected to reveal yellow-red, firm and cut surfaces. The specimen is entirely submitted with the tip of
the stalk inked blue.

8, Received fresh properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries“ is a
previously opened 94 g hysterectomy specimen with received attached right and left adnexa. The uterus measures 8.8
cm from cervix to fundus, 5 cm from cornu to cornu, and 3 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosa appears tan-brown
and smooth. The pink-tan, glistening cervix measures 4 cm in diameter with a 0.5 cm slitlike 05. The endometrial cavity
measures 3.5 cm from cornu to cornu, 4.5 cm from cervix to fundus, 0.1 cm in thickness, and is remarkable for a tan-
brown, friable mass involving greater than 95% of both the anterior and posterior cavities. The anterior mass measures
4.5 x 4.5 x 0.9 cm, and is located 1.1 cm from anterior serosa, 0.8 cm from lower uterine segment, and 4.5 cm from
anterior cervix. The posterior mass measures 3.5 x 3.5 x 0.8 cm, and is located 1 cm from posterior serosa, 0.1 cm from
lower uterine segment. and 4.3 cm from the posterior cervix. The myometrium appears pink-tan, striated, and measures
1.6 cm in thickness. Received separately within the container is a possible polyp which appears transparent-tan
measuring 2 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm.

The left fimbriated fallopian tube measures 5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosa appears purple-tan, and
smooth with 2 paratubal cyst measuring 0.2 and 0.3 cm in greatest dimension. The tube is sectioned to reveal a complete
pinpoint lumen. The attached tan-brown. smooth ovary measures 3.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm, and is sectioned to reveal multiple
fluid filled cystic structures ranging in size from 0.2-0.7 cm. The remaining cut surfaces appear tan-brown and smooth.

The right fimbriated fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosa appears purple pink-tan
and smooth. The tube is sectioned to reveal a the pinpoint lumen. The attached tan-brown, smooth ovary measures 3.8

 

- 4 ~- - .71 .
Conﬁdentiality of this medical record shell be maintained except when use or diedosure it required or perrriitied by low, regutetion. or written authorization by the patient.

PAGE 3 OF 6

 

/

MRN.‘
FINf

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

COLLECTED DATE / TIME RECEIVED DATE ITIME ACCESSION NUMBER

x 1.5 x 1.4 cm, and is sectioned to reveal multiple fluid filled cystic structures ranging in size from 0.2-0.5 cm. The
remaining cut surfaces appear tan-brown and smooth. Representative sections are submitted for
and study. The anterior and left adnexa are inked blue, the posterior and right adnexa are inked black.

Cassette summary:

Cervix anterior

Upper endocervical canal anterior
Cervix posterior

Upper endocervical canal posterior
Left parametria

Right parametria

Anterior fundus ‘

Anterior body

. Posterior fundus

10. Posterior body

11. Possible polyp received separately
12. Left tube

13. Left ovary

14. Right tube

15. Right ovary.

wpﬂg’SﬂPS-“NT’

C. Received fresh properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled “left external iliac lymph node" is a tan-brown, firm
lymph node measuring 2.8 cm in greatest dimension. The node is bisected and entirely submitted. No tissue is submitted
for study.

D. Received fresh properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "left obturator lymph nodes" is a portion of
fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.5 x 3.5 x 2 cm. Upon dissection 4 tan-brown, firm lymph nodes identified ranging in size
from 1-3 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted. No tissue is submitted for study.

Cassette summary:

1. 1 node bisected

2. 2 nodes bisected, 1 inked blue

3-5. Largest node sectioned.

E. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "left external iliac lymph node" are multiple
portions of fibroadipose tissue which aggregate to 6 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 3 tan-brown, firm
candidate nodes are identified ranging in size from 1-3 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary:
1-2. 1 node each, bisected
3—4. 1 node bisected.

 

Confident-lily of this medical record shall be maintained except when us ' or emitted by law. regulation. or written authorization by the Salient. -
PAGE 4 OF 6

 

 

(

MRNZ
FlNZ

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

 

COLLECTED DATE / TIME RECEIVED DATE / TIME ACCESSlON NUMBER

F. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient‘s name and labeled "left common lymph nodes" are 2 portions of
fibroadipose tissue which aggregate to 4.5 in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 3 tan-brown, firm candidate nodes are
identified ranging in size from 1-2.3 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary:

1-2. 1 node each, bisected

3-4. 1 node bisected.

G. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "left periaortic lymph nodes“ is one portion
of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. Upon dissection 3 tan-brown, ﬁrm nodes are identified ranging in
size from 0.8—1.9 cm.

Cassette summary:

1-3. 1 node each, bisected.

H. Received fresh properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "right external iliac lymph node" are multiple
portions of ﬁbroadipose tissue which aggregate to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 3 tan-brown, ﬁrm
candidate nodes are identiﬁed ranging in size from 1-3 cm in greatest dimension. The largest node is serially sectioned in
the OR by- All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary:

1—2. 1 node each, bisected

3-5. Largest node serially sectioned.

|. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "right obturator lymph nodes" are 2 portions
of ﬁbroadipose tissue which aggregate to 5 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 3 tan-brown, ﬁrm candidate
nodes are identiﬁed ranging in size from 1-5 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.
Cassette summary:

1-2. 1 node each, bisected

3-6. 1 node sectioned.

J. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "right common lymph node" are multiple

portions of fibroadipose tissue which aggregate to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 2 tan-brown, firm

candidate nodes are identified ranging in size from 1.4-2.1 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are ,
submitted. l
Cassette summary:
1. 1 node bisected
2—3. 1 node bisected.

K. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "right periaortic lymph nodes" are 2 portions
of fibroadipose tissue which aggregate to 3 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection, 3 tan-brown, firm candidate
nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.6—1 .1 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary:
1. 2 lymph nodes

 

Confidentiality at this medicel record shall be maintained except when use or wsdosure is required or permitted by lew. regulation or written IUihOﬁllllOl’l by the patient

pmmonmo — massacre

’M

_ . -’

PATIENT: _

MRNZ
FIN:

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

 

COLLECTED DATE /TIME RECEIVED DATE /TlME ACCESSlON NUMBER

2. 1 node bisected.

L. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "transverse colon" is a portion of yellow
fibroadipose tissue measuring 4 x 2.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is remarkable for one pink-tan to yellow, firm lymph node
measuring 1 cm in greatest dimension.

Cassette summary:

1. Lymph node bisected

2-3. Remaining fibroadipose tissue.

Cassette summary:
1. Cystic structure entirely submitted
2-4. Additional representative sections.

N. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled “right labia majora biopsy" is a tan-gray,
polypoid portion of soft tissue measurin 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The resection margin is inked blue. The specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted. h

Microscopic Description
A microscopic examination has been performed and is reflected in the above diagnosis(es).

QC

‘

 

 

 

Conﬁdentielity of this medic-l record shell be maintained except when use or disclosure is required or permitted by law, regulation, or written eutnon'zetion by the petr

