UUID:01CF1667-BA52-49CC-BIF5-1320382967ACc

Milli! iiii’iii'lilin.” iii Iii. ""

Patholo Re ort

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Final Diagnosis
A LEFT KlDNEY, PARTIAL. NEPHRECTOMY:

Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type, with necrosis1 Fuhrman nuclear grade3 of 4 (See
Comment).

See Key Pathological Findings.

{:OMMENT: lmmunohistocnemical stains are performed with appropriate controla The tumor pelts
are positive for AMACR (diffuse weak to strong), ROG (moat strong). and CK? {focal weak} while
negative for Karma and CKQO. This immunoprolite supports the above diagnosis.

3 “DEEP MARGlN #1,," RESECTlON: 0 \ 7163-0 13 a 0 Q
Renal cell carcinoma present at inked surgical margin. Wot/mm

W: 7 $429 A
(3 ”SEE? MARGIN #2,“ RESECTION' d5

Renaiparenchyma, negative for carcinoma. 5 b @‘fbﬁﬁj HAS 6. b 4 5)

E3 "RENALVEIN THROMBUS,’ RESECTION:

Fragments. of renat cell carcinoma. W 17’ ja'QS l} L}

E ”RENAL PARENCHYMAL DEEP MARGlN FINAL,” RESECEON:
Renal parenchyma, negative for carcinoma-

1, the attending pathologiet, personally reviewed all
eiiﬁes and i or materials and reniﬁe‘red the final diagnosis. ,Eilectronioally
Signed out: by

Key Pathoiogical Findings

Tumor type: Renal cell carcimma, papillary type, with necrosis
Nuclmr grade: Fuhrman nuclear grade 3 of 4.

Pattern of growth: Solid and papillary.

Tumor size: 6.5 cm.

Invasion through Renal capsule: Not wentiﬁed-
invasion of Gerota‘s Fascia: Not applicable.

Renal vein involvement: Yes.

Surgical margins: Renal parentaiyma surgical resection margins, free of tumor, Per the
procedure note, the renal vein thrombus was completely resected.

Non-neoplastic kidney: Moderate chronic inﬂammation.

Adrenal gland: Not applicable

Lymph nodes: Not applicabie.

Pathologic stage: pT3aNXMX.

Specimenb) Received
A LEFT PARTEAL NEPHRECTOMY F8

B DEEP MARGIN #1 FS

(3 DEEP MARGIN #2 FS

5) RENAL VEIN THROMBUS

E RENAL FARENCHYMAL DEEP MARGIN FlNAL F3

Clinical History
{ell kidney mass.

Preoperative Diagnosis
Left kidney mass.

Intrauperative Consultation
FSM. {EFT PARTiAL MEPHRECTOMY:
inked margin is negative. tumor is close to ink.

F381. DEEP MARGIN #1:
Tumor at inked margin.

FSC‘i. DEEP MARGIN #2:
Negative for tumor.

F551. RENAL PARENCHYMAL DEEP MARGIN FlNAL:
Negative for tumor.

Comment: These from section diagnoseslresults were mnmunicaled to and acknowledged by Dr.

i, . have performed the intrawerative consultations and is sued the above
diagnoses.

Gross Description

A The specimen is received fresh labeled "ieft partial nephrectomy' and consists ofa 52 9 gram
6 5 x E. 5 x 5 5 cm partial kidney resection. The surgical margin is inked hiack The capsule rs smooth
with a small amount of attached adipose tissue The resection is largely replaced by a ﬁ 5 x a. 5 x 5 5
cm, well-circum scribed, yellow, tan. congested mass with areas of necrosis. The mass abuts and
distends the surgical margin and capsule- Auditing the mass is a 2.5 x 3.8 x 1.5 cm, soft, friable, tan
mass, which extends to the surgicat margin. There is a. minimal amourn of nonnal renal parenchyma.
A representative section of the mass with margin is frozen (perpendicular section) and entirely
submitted in FSAL Additional representative sections are submitted as follows:

A2—A4: Mass with adjacent friable area

its-AB: Composite section of mass including area adjacent normal parenchyma in A6

A9: Mass with capsule

B. The specimen is received fresh labeled “deep margin #1 " and consists of a 42 x 25 x 2.5 cm
partial kidney resection ‘Fhe margin is inked black. The remaining surface has a thin membranous
lining. The kidney has a 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm, soft, friable, tan congeswd mass. There is a small

amount of residual normal renal parenchyma. A representative section of the mass closest to the
deep margin is frozen (perpendicular section) and entirely submitted in F381. Additional
representative sections at renal parenchyma and mass are submitted in 32—84.

e. The specimen is received fresh labeled “deep margin #2" and consists of a 1.5 x 0.8 )t 11.5 cm
portion of kidney. The deep margin is inked black. The tissue is sectioned (perpendicular sections},
frozen, and entirely submitted in F501.

t}. The specimen is received fresh labeled ”renal vein throm hosts“ and consists of a 2.5 x 1.5 x
1.0 cm aggregate o: fragmented, soft, friable, gritty, red brown material. The tissue is entirely
submitted in 01.

E. The specimen is received lresh labeled renal parmchyma deep marginr ﬁnal"i and consists of
a 1. 4 ll 0 3 it 0 2 cm portion of kidney The deep margin is inked black. The tissue Is sectioned
(perpendicular sections) frozen and entirely submitted in FSEt

 

