Examination report

 

Macroscopic ﬁndings:

1. (a-f) Right upper lobe of lung: pulmonary lobe weighing 287 g and measuring 180 x 120 x 60 mm with
bronchus removed close to the parenchyma. Adhesions on the exterior. On the costal side, deformed parietal
pleura containing adipose tissue. In the apical section of S 1 there is a tumorous node measuring 65 mm,
grayish—white, containing signiﬁcant anthracotic pigment, with a well demarcated border and polycyclic
demarcation, extending up to and under the adhered pleura. The bronchia are free of tumors in their central
branches and are unremarkable. The right middle pulmonary lobe is also unremarkable. No larger lymph nodes
are detectable either in the hilar or peribronchial areas.

2. L 4: Torn lymph node tissue with anthracotic pigment, measuring around 10 mm.
3. L 10: Nodule measuring 3 mm with blackish pigment.

4. L 7: segmented lymph adipose tissue, with partial black pigmentation, measuring approx 20 mm when
spread out ﬂat.

5. (a—b) L 4: segmented lymph adipose tissue, measuring approx 20 mm when spread out flat, likewise with
partial black pigmentation; one of the lymph nodes has a susPicious grayish-white border.

6. (a—b) L 3: segmented lymph adipose tissue, with partial black pigmentation, measuring approx 20 mm when
spread out flat.

Microscopic ﬁndings:

1. (HE, b: PAS, b u e: EvG) No signs of tumor in the resection margin of the bronchia or the adipose
connective tissue and blood vessels by it. In the peribronchial area there is a small tumor—free lymph node with
anthracotic pigment. The described tumor is made up of bands of an immature, squamous cell carcinoma with
distinct pleomorphism and chromatin coarsening of the core as well as frequent mitosis and multifocal necrotic
inclusions. Inﬁltration of the visceral pleura, penetrating the adjoining adhesion area, however the clearly
deﬁnable parietal pleura and the adjoining, adhered, subpleural adipose connective tissue have no further
tumorous branches. Significant indication of angioinvasion in the centre of the tumor with formation of
obliterative tumor thrombi. -

2. (HE) Further, turnonfree lymph nodes with histiocytosis, cicatrisation and signiﬁcant anthracotic pigment
deposition.

3. (BE) similar to 2.
4. QB) similar to 2.
5. (HE) similar to 2. Follicle with activated, large germinal centre with nuclear detritus macrophages.

6. (HE) similar to 2.

Diagnosis: Resected right superior pulmonary lobe with poorly differentiated and non-keratinizing, maturing
squamous cell carcinoma, measuring a maximum of 65 mm, with the main tumor mass in S l with inﬁltration
of the visceral pleura and, in the perifocal section, inﬂamed and scarred adherent cusp of parietal pleura with
subpleural adipose tissue, without tumorous branches. Multifocally, angioinvasion in the centre of the tumor
with vascular tumor thrombi; the bronchial resection margin as well as the peribronchial lymph nodes are
tumor—free, the latter with anthracosis. All further lymph nodes are tumor-free with varying degrees of distinct
anthracosis.

 

Tumor classification:

M—8070/3, G 3, pT 2, pV l, pN 0, pM X, stage I B. R 0.

Right upper lobe of lung

Lymph nodes

 

