UUID:FCBACMF-AMQ-d7F4-BBA3-7518C56F64AD

 

I
l
J

TCGA-SB-AMF—a1A-PR Redacted
I”: ”I"

I HlHﬂllllllllmllllIHIHIHHIIIIHIIHHIIIIIHIII
H lllllllllH"I“llHill"!llllllllllllllllllllllllll
HIHIIHINIHIHIIIII INHIHHIIIHIHHIIINIH I ll i 151””

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number:

Diagnosis:
A: Lung, right upper lobe, wedge resection

Tumor histologic type (WHO): invasive lung adenocarcinoma,
acinar predominant (mixed acinar and micropapillary subtypes).v

Tumor histologic grade (WHO): moderate to poorly differentiated
Tumor size: 3.2 cm maximum tumor size by gross examination
Focality: unifocal

Other structures involved: none

In situ carcinoma: not identified

Extent of invasion: |9E>4713
Venous: not identified adcnocafctnOMQ,CLcinotf
Arterial: not identified 7560/8

Lymphatic: not identified
Perineural: not identified

Pleura: not identified 8’40.- ,M5) “’9?!”

‘3' 13-42,

(- scuba
‘C;E$L-l

Surgical margins: negative LO

Lymph nodes: no tumor seen in one lymph node in this specimen
(0/1)

Size of largest metastasis: not applicable
Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: not applicable

Findings in nontumorous lung: emphysematous changes, multifocal
bronchiolar metaplasia and focal fibrous remodeling

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2a pNO

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Lymph node, Station 4, removal
~ Benign fibroadipose soft tissue; no lymph nodes identified; no
tumor seen.

 

 

Comment:
Molecular studies have been ordered on a representative section
of the tumor to be reported separately by

Clinical History:
year-old with right upper lobe mass.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe wedge." It
holds a 51.8 gram, 11.0 x 4.0 x 2.8 cm wedge of lung. There is
an 11.0 cm staple line along one edge which is removed and the
exposed parenchyma is inked green. The pleura is notable for an
area of tan/white discoloration, roughly 2.1 x 1.6 cm which is
inked blue. This area comes to within 0-5 cm of the green inked
stapled parenchymal margin. Within the wedge there is a 3.2 x
2.4 x 1.5 cm tan, firm, somewhat circumscribed mass with central
cavitations. The mass is 0.4 cm from the green inked stapled
parenchymal margin, abuts the pleura, but does not appear to
grossly invade through it, and is surrounded by tan firm lung
tissue. A portion of the mass and normal is submitted to Tissue
Procurement. The remainder of the parenchyma is tan/brown and

spongy.

Block summary:

A1,A2 - mass with respect to green inked parenchymal margin,
perpendicular and overlying pleura

A3 — additional section of mass with respect to pleura

A4 - mass and adjacent lung parenchyma

A5 - lung parenchyma away from mass

Container B is additionally labeled "Station 4 lymph nodes." It
holds a 2.6 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm fragment of yellow firm fibrofatty
tissue. No lymph nodes are palpated within the tissue which is
bisected and submitted in blocks Bl—BZ,

