  

Ref. Source:

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
Dale of Report:
Account #;
Bllling Type:
Additional Copy to:

 

Cllnlcat Dia nosle & Histor :
1h right renal mass Incidentally found.

Sneclmens Submitted:
1: SP: Right kidney; nephreotomy
2: SP: Lymph nodes, paracaval; exolsron-

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1, SP: Right kidney; nephrectomy-

Tumor Type:
Renal cell oarclnome — Conventional (clear cell) type

Fultrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade ElflV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 1.5 cm.

Local Enveslon (for renal cortical types):
Not Identiﬁed

Renal Vein invasion:
Not Identiﬁed

Surgical Marglna:
Free of tumor
Non~Neoplastlo Kidney:
Marked glomerulosclerosis and chronic pyelonephrltis

Adrenal Gland:
Not submitted

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

Staging for renal cell oarclnomaioncocyloma:

th Tumor <= 7.0 cm In greatest dimension limited to the kidney

Comment: The tumor has "clear cell—papillary features" as has been described in kidneys with impaired renat function.

........................................................

2. SP: Lymph nodes, paraoaval; exolslon-

Lymph Nodes:
Not Involved
Number of nodes examined:2

 

Page 1 of2

   

 

IM'TEST THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSiS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (ltNDIOR OTHER MATERIAL). AND Tilﬁr’i’l HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THI$ REPORT.

 

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT

i). The specimen is received fresh iabeled "right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels and
perinephrtc tat weighing 150 g in total. The kidney measures 8 x 5 x 3.6 cm. The attached crater measures 3 cm in length and
0.3 out in diameter. No adrenal gland is identified. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a well circumscribed tan
nodute in the upper pole, measuring 1.5 x 1.3 cm on cross-section. The tumor replaces the renal cortex, reaches but does not
penetrate to the renal capsule, and pelvis. The renal parenchyma in the upper pole is brownish necrotic, with an ill deﬁned
corticornedultary iunctlon. The renal parenchyma in the lower pote is relatively preserved. The cortex in this area measures 0.4
cm. No lymph node is identiﬁed. The entire tumor is submitted. TPS is taken. Representativa sections are submitted.

Gross Description:

Summary of sections:

UVM w uretarat and vessai margins

T~- tumor

UK w representative sections of upper pole kidney
LK -- representative sections lower pole kidney

F .- fat

 

2.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "peracavai lymph nodes" and consists of multipio pieces of fibroadipose tissue measuring
3.8 x 3.3 x 1.8 can in aggregate. Within this tissue. two lymph nodes are identiﬁed measuring 1.3 and 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The
lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN ~ tymph nodes

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Right kidney; nephreotoiny-

Block Sect. Site PBS
1 F l
1 LK “I
5 T 5
‘i UK 1
‘i UVM 1

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, paracaval; excision-

Block Sect. Site P03
1 LN 1

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

