Date Coll: -

SPECIMEN
A. Apical lymph node
B. Rectum and sigmoid

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

CLINICAL NOTES

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received unfixed, labeled left apical lymph node, is a

0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm lymph node, entirely submitted in one
block. AS-l.

B. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"rectosigmoid" is a 24 cm. long portion of colon. The proximal end
is stapled and is inked blue, the distal end is opened and is inked
black. The specimen is partially covered with pink tan smooth
glistening serosa showing a 1.2 cm area of submucosal hemorrhage,
2.8 cm. from the proximal end. The retroperitoneal reflection is
6.5 cm. from the distal margin. The specimen is opened to show a
pink tan smooth glistening mucosa which has an average circumference
of 5.5 cm. at the proximal end and 9.5 cm. at the distal end. There
is a submucosal darkly discolored maroon area, 2.5 x 1.2 cm.,
located 3 cm. from the proximal end. No discrete gross lesions are
identified. At the distal end is a 2.5 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. tumor which
is exophytic having a flat surface. This comes within 3 cm. of the
distal margin. The cut surface of this shows invasion into the
muscularis propria, coming within 1.5 cm. of radial margin. No
other discrete gross lesions are identified. A portion of tumor is
submitted for tissue procurement, as requested. Possible lymph node
are grossly identified in the surrounding fat. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: block 1 -
representative luminal margins; block 2 and 3 - representative
sections of submucosal hemorrhage which was previously considered to
be inking; block 4-5 - representative section of tumor to deep
margin; block 6 - representative section of tumor to normal; block 7
- has six possible lymph nodes; block 8 - has five possible lymph
nodes; block 9 - has six possible lymph nodes; block 10 and 11 — six

e lymph nodes each; block 12 - has two lymph nodes. RSl2.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated
Primary tumor (pT2): Carcinoma into, but not through, muscularis
propria.
Proximal/distal/radial margins: Negative.
Vascular invasion: Not identified.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Metastatic carcinoma in 2 of 29 lymph
nodes (2/29)
Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified.
Other findings: Diverticuli.

5, 3

DIAGNOSIS

A. Apical lymph node, biopsy:

One negative lymph node (0/l).

B. Sigmoid colon and rectum, segmental resection:
Adenocarcinoma (rectum), moderately-differentiated, with
invasion

into, but not through, the muscularis propria (pT2).
Negative margins of excision.
Metastatic carcinoma in two of twenty-eight lymph nodes
(2/28).

 

——— End Of Report ---

