 

CGA—A3-3308

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

   
  
  

Accession #:

Patient Name: . . _.
Location: Billing Type:

       

 

 

Med. Rec. #1
DUB: . -. Service: Medicine _ _ Taken:
Gender; 'a' it: ‘- " " Received:
Physician{s): ' '-3 ' Reported:
S ecimen 5 Received
Right kidney
Patholoqic Diagnosis
Flight kidney:
Histologic Type: Clear cell (conventional) renal carcinoma
Fuhrman Grade: '2
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5 cm
Extent of Invasion: Tumor limited to the kidney and does not involve the renal vein or
extend beyond the capsule.
Margins: Renal vein margin uninvolved by carcinoma
Renal artery margin uninvolved by carcinoma
Ureter margin uninvolved by carcinoma
LymphOVascuiar invasion absent
Venous invasion present
Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed
Specimen Type: Radical nephrectomy
Adrenal Gland: Not present

 

Comment: Carcinoma extends into muscular segmental branches of the renal vein although not into the
renal vein.

PATHOLOGiC STAGE: pTBb, pNX, pMX.

NOTE: lnfonnation on pathology stage and the operative procedure is transmitted to this institution's Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is only a Component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it. The exact operatiVe procedure is available in the surgeon's operative

report.

 

 

 

 

Ftnrnirtal pathnlnmv Pnnnrt —

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Clinical History
Right renal mass.

 

Gross Description

Received in formalin and labeled “right kidney" is a kidney surfaced by a moderate amount of perirenal tat
which together total 399 gm. Trimmed of fat the kidney is 133 gm, 9.3 x 5.8 x 3.8 cm. Arising from the
renal pelvis is a 7.8 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter segment of ureter, a 2.2 cm in length and 1 cm in ,
diameter segment of renal artery, and a 1.2 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter segment of renal vein. No

. lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the renal pelvis and no adrenal gland tissue is identified within the perirenal
fat. The kidney is purple—brown with a faint lobulated appearance. On the inferior pole there is a 3.5 cm in
diameter spherical nodule with a yellow—tan coloration. In this area the capsule is inked black. The cut
surface identifies a 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm mottled yellow-tan tumor mass with local areas of hemorrhagic
necrosis and white fibrous areas up to 1.2 cm in maximum diameter. in addition, there are cystic structures
from 0.1 to 1 cm in diameter. Grossiy, the tumor mass extends to the renal capsule but does not penetrate
the capsule. in addition, the tumor extends into the vein of the renal pelvis. The remaining renal
parenchyma is red-brown. The surface of the cortex exhibits broad—based scars up to 1.6 cm in diameter.
In addition, there are renal retention cysts from 0.2 to 0.8 cm. The renal cortex averages 0.5 cm in
thickness and the medulla averages 1.2 cm. No other masses or indurated areas are grossly identified.
Summary of sections: 1 — surgical margins 01‘ the ureter, renal artery and renal vein, 2-4 — tumor mass and
renal capsule, 5—6 — tumor mass and renal pelvis, 7 — representative section of renal parenchyma with laser,
8 - representative section of renal parenchyma with renal retention cysts, 9—11 tumor within segmental
branches of renal vein.

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The pathologic diagnosis encompasses the
essential microscopic ﬁndings of this case.

 

 

a ChanMax Final Reports Page 2 of 2

errnirtal Dathnlnmr Danni-i _

 

