LABORATORY MEDICINE PROGRAM

w.»:12262925233215‘359-1‘5'Waasﬁﬁliﬁutad

..._ ‘

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

   
   
    

6003 .
‘ carcinoma , PQPtﬂa’qf
ﬁll/gular variant-

 

Sgecimenls) Reg ived" $ 3‘4 0 f6
1. Thyroid: total thyroid stioh marks upper pole left lobe 5 \‘ 44 ; ‘H"i\{ re,- d, NOS

CD 351 4 ”’30
Diagnosis. '

Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant angioinvasive and widely invasive follicular variant with focal dedifferentiation
(less than 10% of tumor) 5.4 cm, right; follicular nodular disease: Thyroid '

No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, 1. right perithyroidal
-Total thyroidectomy specimen. See Comment.

Comment

The dominant tumor is predominantly a follicular variant papillary carcinoma. Within this tumor, there are regions which
focally show a more solid architecture associated with increased single cell apoptosis, away from areas of degeneration,
consistent with dedifferentiation. These areas represent only a small portion of the tumor (less than 10%).

   
  
 
  

  
 
      
     

This case has been seen in consultation with Dr. . and she agrees with the interpretation and diagnosis.
Synoptic Data
Procedure: Total thyroidectomy
Received: Fresh
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
6.8 cm
5.7 cm
4.0 cm
Left lobe:
4.0 cm
1.5 cm
1.3 cm
Isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe: Sffgﬂlm...,ep,..,.
2.5 cm "" it}?
0.5 cm PK:_1_
0.4 cm ~-
Specimen Weight: 56.5 g _
Tumor Focality: Multifocal, bilateral

Multifocal, midline (isthmus)

 

-_ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report _

 

--------------- DOMINANTTDMOR---—--——----—-
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.4cm

Additional dimension: 3.7 cm
Additional dimension: 3.0 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant
Follicular architecture
Other architecture: focal dedifferentiation (less than 10% of tumor).
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: , y . gi! Not applicable ' ,_ Q a

Margins: " Margins uninvolved by carcinoma " ' h '
- Tu‘mor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular. Invasion: Present, extent widely invasive

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: ; Present, focal extent (less than 4 vessels)

Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed '

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

--------- .------SECONDTUMOR------—---—-«-—

Tumor Laterality: , Left lobe

Tunfor Size: Greatest dimension: 1.0cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant

Follicular architecture
Oncocytic or oxyphilic cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.1mm
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated
Tumor Capsular Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed '
TNM Descriptors: m (multiple primary tumors) .
Primary Tumor (p1): pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid or with minimal extrathyroidal extension
' (eg, extension to sternothyroid muscle or perithyroid soft tissues)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenomatoid nodule(s) or Nodular follicular disease ,
Other: Multiple additional papillary microcarcinomas identiﬁed (all 0.6 cm or less in
size) in. right lobe. isthmus, and left lobe.

‘Pathologic Staging is based on AJCCIUICC TNM, Edition

 

Electronicallv Veﬂ'ﬁed by:

 

Clinical Histom
thyroid mass

Gross Description

The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Total thyroid, stitch marks upper pole left lobe" consists of a thyroid
gland that is received oriented with a suture and weighs 56.5 g. The right lobe measures 6.8 cm SI x 5.7 cm ML x 4.0 cm
AP, the left lobe measures 4.0 cm Sl x 1.5 cm ML x 1.3 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.5 cm Si x 0.5 cm ML x 0.4 cm
AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions, and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid glands and/or
lymph nodes are identified grossly. The right lobe contains a pink-tan and ﬂeshy, well delineated, non-encapsulated

 

   

Page 2 of3

—— Surgical Pathology Consultation Report g—

nodule that measures 5.4 cm SI x 3.7 cm ML x 3.0 cm . . ‘ The left lobe contains at least 3 well circumscribed, ﬂeshy
nodules that range from 0.5 to 1.0 cm in diameter. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is grossly unremarkable. Sections

of all the nodules and normal tissue are stored frozen. Representative sections of the remainder of the specimen are
submitted as follows:

1A—O representative of right lobe, superior'to inferior
1P isthmus, in totc
10-T left lobe superior to inferior, in toto

 

 

- Page 3 of 3

