Page 1 of2
UUID: 68415C4C- -c545- 4911- -BA53- -5E5525552F04

'*“'"—“"“"“" TCGA- GB- -A6UC- 01A- PR

III II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIdIIIIIcII’ce
III

III I
lIIIII|IIII|lIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIllllll

 

 

II
i_._._
IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIlllllllllllllllllllil
CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Time Collected Time Received
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider a red) 0 3
Status Final Relevant information W
Location W
Copied To " I 70 ASNL

Report Patient W W17

Demographics (for
veriﬁcation purposes)

Sex: M 230/

a» M, 5W323

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 5112. 51mm (1142 ‘0' "
*****Surgical Pathology Report***“ 3 : 7/z'zJ/3

Accession Number
Collected Date/Tir
Received ﬂats/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description
A. Gallbladder at
B. Liver segment 6 at

Clinical Information
Cirrhosis secondary to ETOH with likely HCC.

 

Diagnosis

A. Gallbladder:
- Cholelithiasis.
B. Liver segment 6:
- Chronic hepatitis, mild.
- Cirrhosis, micrcnodular.
~ Hepatccellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, solid variant,
2 5 cms in the greast dimension, with metastases to the portal veins
and intrahepatic metastases
Tumor 0 3 Cm away from the resection margin.

Reported by:

Electronically signed by
Verified:

Gross Description

Received are specimen containers A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the pacient's name, The cassettes and AP identifiers are
labelled with the Surgical Number

A. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "A. Gallbladder”. The

 

Page 2 of 2

specimen consists of a congested intact gallbladder measuring 11.0 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm. The
seroeal surface is smooth and glistening. Opening reveals the gallbladder to be filled
with green bile. Also found in the gallbladder are five black irregular calculi ranging
from 0.4 cm up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The mucosal surface is dark green, rough
and the gallbladder wall averages between 0.1 to 0.2 cm in thickness. Found at the neck
and near the cystic duct are two firm palpable nodules within the adipose tissue, the
first measuring 1.0 cm, the other 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sections are as follows:

Al — three sections of gallbladder.

A2 — the smaller node bisected.

A3 - the larger node bisected.

B. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "Liver segment 6". The

specimen consists of a portion of liver weighing 50.8 g and measuring 6.5 x 5.0 x 2.5 cm.
The liver capsule is nodular and the surgical resection margin has been inked blue.
Sectioning reveals a green circumscribed mass measuring 2.5 x 2.3 x 2.5 om. Adjacent to
the green circumscribed mass is a hemorrhagic circumscribed mass measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x
1.0 cm. The green mass comes within 0.3 cm of the blue painted surgical resection margin
and the hemorrhagic mass 0.1 cm to the blue painted surgical resection margin. The green
mass comes with less than 0.1 cm of the liver capsule and the hemorrhagic mass comes
within 0.7 cm of the liver capsule. Sections are as follows:

Bl ~ section of the green mass and its relationship to the liver capsule.

82 ~ section of the green mass and its relationship to the blue painted surgical
resection margin.

33 - hemorrhagic mass with a portion of the adjacent green mass and the relationship
to the blue painted surgical margin.

Be - further section of hemorrhagic mass and relationship to blue painted surgical

resection margin.
Please note that upon sectioning of the hemorrhagic mass, it is found to have a

cut surface which is granular and the substance easily pulls out of the
circumscribed area. query blood vessel.
B5 - representative section of liver parenchyma.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

1 U3

  

   

TumorSItE

 
 

”FAA
’nm

 
 
 
 

its: is

     
    

Imtials Reviswad'

 
 

 

 

