I 0f3

UUID:BEFD5412-08CO-4A14-8204-9E1D71FD3EC
TCGA-MJ-A4WA-B1A-PR Rgda

III IIII I III I III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII II
III I II I II I l lllIIlllll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII II IIIII I IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII IIIIIIIII III

cted
III

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PATIENT: PATH #:
Hospital No.: A/S: F
Date of Birth: Rec:

Col:

Location:
Pathologist:
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS: *‘ADDENDUM,
3. TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:
- Malignant mixed mullerian tumor of endometrium with
heterologous elements MMMT (high grade carcinosarcoma)
— Carcinomatous component: High grade serous adenocarcinoma
— Sarcomatous component: High grade endometrial stromal
sarcoma
— Heterologous component: Chondrosarcoma (::>
— Tumor dimension: 5.8 x 5.1 x 4.6 cm (A E?
N

The tumor invades to greater than half of myometrium

(greater than 50%) n
No endocervical or lower uterine segment invasion is identified

Extensive vascular invasion is present

The uninvolved endometrium is atrophic (:>
The myometrium shows extensive adenomyosis and three E:

I I I I

subserosal leiomyomas, one of which shows extensive
calcification (the leiomyomas vary in size from 0.3 to 2.5 cm)

— The cervix shows chronic cervicitis with squamous metaplasia and
leiomyoma (1.1 cm)

- The parametrium shows foci of lymphovascular space invasion but S:: f5
no direct invasion
- Stage: pTlc Nx Mx (based on material examined) E- R\
1. LEFT ADNEXA, LEFT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY: ggr
an
\—
N-

— Left fallopian tube showing intraluminal tufts of malignant
cells

Left fallopian tube showing no direct parenchymal invasion
by tumor

Left fallopian tube also shows cystic and noncystic
Walthard rests and mesonephric duct remnants

Left ovary shows corpora albicantia and no evidence of

%;f

s \
malignancy 5. \a

a §

m

UI

‘\

2. RIGHT ADNEXA, RIGHT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
— Right ovary showing focal surface epithelial inclusion
glands and surface adhesions
« Right fallopian tube showing no significant histopathologic
(continued on next page)

Page: 2
changes
~ Right adnexa free from tumor
ADDENDUM:

MICROSCOPIC:
Deeper sections were examined on block (0) and the findings have been
incorporated in the diagnosis.

GROSS:

1: LEFT ADNEXA

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left adnexa" and
received in formalin is a 4.7 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter
fimbriated segment of fallopian tube. The serosa is tan—pink and
dull with small scattered serosal serous cysts. There is a 0.1 cm
lumen. There is an attached 1.7 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm ovary with a smooth
tan‘yellow external surface. On sectioning, cut surfaces reveal
multiple corpora albicantia. No additional lesions are identified.
Representative sections.

A. Fallopian tube and entire ovary ~ 3

2: RIGHT ADNEXA

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right adnexa" and
received in formalin is a 4.7 x 0.4 cm fimbriated segment of
fallopian tube. The serosa is dull, tan—pink and smooth. On
sectioning there is a 0.1 cm lumen. There is an attached 1.7 x 1.1 x
0.6 cm ovoid, smooth, tan‘yellow ovary. On sectioning cut surfaces
reveal multiple corpora albicantia. No additional lesions are
identified. Representative sections.

B. Fallopian tube and entire ovary - 3

3: UTERUS
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "uterus", received fresh
in the operating room for gross consultation and subsequently fixed
in formalin is a lZO-gram uterus and cervix without attached adnexa.
The uterus is 7.0 cm from fundus to ectocervix, 4.2 cm from cornu to
cornu, and 5.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosa is tanered
and dull. The cervix is 2.1 cm in length and 1.6 cm in diameter with
a 0.2 cm patent OS. The ectocervical mucosa is tan-red and smooth.
Specimen is opened to reveal a distinct transformation zone. The
endocervical canal is 1.7 cm in length and tan and rugose without
obvious lesion. The endometrial cavity is 4.0 cm in length and 2.5
cm in maximum diameter. The anterior and posterior left cornu
displays a 5.8 x 5.1 x 4.6 cm intramural, firm to focally friable
tan~white to pink—white tumor mass. The tumor invades to greater
than half of the myometrium but does not extend to the serosa. The
remaining endometrium is smooth, tan—pink with a less than 0.1 cm
thickness. The myometrium measures up to 2.2 cm in maximum
thickness and contains three subserosal leiomyomas ranging from 0.3
to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The largest subserosal myoma has a
diffusely calcified cut surface. The remaining cut surfaces are
firm, tan-white, and whorled without areas of hemorrhage or
(continued on next page)

Page: 3
necrosis. On sectioning, the intramural mass has a diffusely
softened and focally necrotic cut surface. Representative sections.

t. Smaller subserosals myomas — 2

D. Calcified subserosal myoma - 2

E. Anterior corpus overlying mass A 1

F Anterior intramural mass — l

G. Anterior serosa overlying mass — l

H. Anterior lower uterine segment — l

I Anterior cervix - l

J. Posterior corpus with underlying tumor — l
K. Posterior intramural tumor — l

L. Posterior serosa overlying intramural tumor - l
M. Posterior lower uterine segment ~ 1

N. Posterior cervix - l

O. Parametrial soft tissue — 2
PwW. Additional sections of tumor — 1 each

20f3

3 of 3

Gross dictated by

OEERATIVE CALL

OPERATIVB CONSULT (GROSS):
Specimen #3: Uterus:

— Previously opened uterus revealing necrotic endometrial
neoplasm contiguous with a leiomyoma—like mass which
contains chondroid or osseous—like area grossly; suspicious
for deep myometrial invasion, defer to microscopic
examination for definitive depth of invasion

Special Studies: None
See Also:

Pathologist
I, the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results,

reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Finalled.

I, the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results,

reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Finalled:

 

  
      
  
   
 

 

. 3 i
‘ o9 1’! l3 . “pal—1’ '

\
'stiur'_.-um.v __ _,_.I; j
were-w w—. - ,

 

#5" “:42"?

___.-..i...—
I, umrﬁxnuﬂrl , .

grill“: 3.

