UUID: IBFCEDCI- DBFF- 4C55- 8925- -BA52DEBBECDeSd

|||||||IllﬁiiﬁiﬁlvilﬁilslliiﬁllﬁIlllllllll IIII IIIIIIﬁ IIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII HHHIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIITIIICII
I||| I IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII

    

Patient . i
.- —-

Requested E
Ordered By

Surg Path Case - STATUS: Final
HSEE NOTE Collect/Pertorm
Ordered Date;
Department: PATH

Physician who Performed Procedure:
Requesting Physician:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, ‘
Attending Pathologist

inat'tﬁrst.nttttﬁt't'wttvliiiiMODIFIED REPORT/ADDITIONAL

RESULTStettiwt-wwtwttaiwt*tttwltit

This report is issued to include Part 5, which was omitted at the time of

the original submission‘

Part 6 should be read as follows:

6. Portion of cervical tumcr, exalsion:
- Fragment of squamous cell carcinoma.

it!Rw*-wwlttttawwtwtirtttwttwtnwn-wtranwttwnttriwwww-tknew*aa$cttuttwuwﬁtwi

tit!!!wwl'rtl‘iri‘wwi"lﬁ'itni'liiiwtﬂlt
DIAGNOSIS:
1. Lymph node, LEFT common iliac, bicpsy;
7 One lymph node, negative Eur carcinoma (0/1),
2. Lymph nodes, RIGHT cummon Iliac. biossy:
. Three Lymph nodes, negar ve [or carcIncma (0/3)‘

3‘ Uterus, cervix, ovarles. fallopian Lubes, and vaglna. rabocic

hysterectomy / bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

~ Invasive s uamous cell carcinama, WQII diffurnnLIaLnd, reaeurInu 5 0 cm
q

 

 

 

1&0 v3
@FGHOOW (/8 MIZ‘VL%

8/157}

5.75... 09mm were
ﬂew/x N55

6530!
@LO/M/lj

OP

\

Pat ienc Nam . ’

Requested By
Ordered By:

 

in greatest dimension, limited to the cervix.

— The margins are negative, however, tumor is present 0.1cm from the
anterior cervical margin at 12 o’clock and 1 o'clock.

- Lymphovascular invasion is identified.

~ Bilateral ovaries and Fallopian tubes with no SIgniFicant
histopathologic findings.

» Left paratubai Cyst.

- Uterus with inactive endometrium.

— See synoptic report for complete details.
4, Lymph node, LEFT pelvic, biopsy:

— Twenty lymph nodes, negative for carc1noma 10/20).
5. Lymph node, RIGHT pelvic. biopsy:

« Fifteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma Io/ial.

1—5. Cervix, ovaries, fallopian tubes, and upper vagina, robotic

hysterectomy / bilateral salpingo-oophorectcmy:
Final Diagnosis:

, Histologic uype: Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma with papillary
architecture. ‘
- Histologic Grade: 61 (well diiferentiated)
— Tumor Size:

Greatest dimension: 5.0 cm; other two dimensions: 3.0 x 2.7 cm
« Tumor Site: Tumor involves the 9 4 o' clock posILion.
, Margins: Negative

Distance of invasive carcinoma tron closest margin: 0 1 from anterior
cervical margin at

12—1 o'clock.
Distance of invasive carcinoma from distal/vaginal culls margin: 1.0 cm
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present
- Tumor Extension: Invasive tumor confined to cervxx
, Cervical Wall Invasion (%, maxxmum depth of invasion/thickness of
cervical wall): 90%
Parametrial Invoivement: Absent

Distance from parametrial margins: > 1.0 cm from the parametrial
margins.
— Other Organs Present: Right ovary, left ovary, right fallopian Lube, left
fallopian tube, uterine

corpus, upper vagina

Requested i
Ordered B}

Report Name:

- Regional Lymph Node Metaszasis (number of positive/number examined): 0/39
- Distant Metastasis: cannot be determined
- Additional Pathologic Findings: Bilateral ovaries with no significant
histopathologic findings.

Bilateral fallopian tubes with no significant histopathologic findings.
Left paratubal cyst, Uterus

with inactive endometrium.
, AJCC Pathologic Staging: pT2a2 N0 M (not applicable) FIGO: IIAZ
(see COMMENT)

COMMENT: The pathologic staging may differ from the clinical staging as
cervical carcinomas are

staged clinically.

:1:33ajalll=3=33=u=snunsnsssks:::z.su:l=<:=3:risls't7‘—.':.:=LIA::~'."" 7 ~»~

CLINICAL INFORMATION:

Cervical cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

1. The specimen is received fresh and labeled "left common iliac lymph
node“. It consists of a tan-red fatty node, measuring 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm.

the specimen was performed for frozen arm submitted in one cassette labeled
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT: One node negative for tumor. Reported to

2. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and
labeled “right common iliac lymph nodes“. It consists of three tan<red
lymph nodes, measuring from 0.2 cm up to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The

three nodes were performed for frozen and submitted in one cassette labeled
lNTRAOPERATEVE CONSULT: Three lymph nodes negative for tumor. Reported to

3. The specimen is received fresh and labeled "uterus, cervix, tubes and
upper vagina, ovaries". It consists ol 3 hyscerectomy specimen With
attached bilateral ovaries and Fallopian tubes and the upper portion of the
vagina. The specimen weighs 129 g and has following measurements: 8.0 cm

from the fundus to ecrucerv:x; 1.5 cm from the cornu to cornu and 2.7 cm

0P5

 

~
*—

Requested By:

Patient be” . -

Ordered By;

from anterior to posterior. the right ovary and faiiopian tube measure 2.0
x 1.1 x 0.7 cm and 8.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm respecLiveiy. The left ovary and
fallopian tube measure 2,] x 1.2 x 0.7 cm and 8.3 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm
respectively. The upper vagina measures from 1.0 cm up to 2.0 cm in length
[vaginal margin is inked}. The right parametriai margin measures 3.0 x 2.0
x 1.0 cm and left parametrium margin measures 4.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The
specimen is opened to reveal the cndocervical canal measureing 4.0 cm in
length and 0.50m in diameter. The endomcttial cavity measures 3.0 cm in
length and 1.5 cm from the cornu to cornu and the myometrium measures up to
1.3 cm in average thickness. The outer surface 01 Lhe anterior cervix is
inked in blue and the posterior cervix is inked in black. The specimen is
opened to reveal a 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.7 cm tan-whi:e, firm and poorly
circumscribed tumor located at the cervix from nine o'clock to four o'clock
position. This tumor is 1.0 cm from the vaginal margin and is 0.2 cm from
anterior outer surface cervical margin which is inked in blue. This tumor
is at the endoccrvical junction, grossly. The endometrium is tan—brown,
smooth and measures up to 0.1 cm in thickness. The myometrium shows tan
brown trabecular appearance. The both ovaries have tan white smooth
Surface with grossly unremarkable cut surface. Both fallopian tubes have
tan-red smooth surface with grossly identified pinpoint lumen.

Representative sections are submitted as toiiows:

Shaved vaginal margin from 12 to 3 o'clock
shaved vaginal margin from 3 L0 6 o'ciock

Shaved vaginal margin from 6 to 9 o'ciock

COW?

Shaved vaginal margin from 9 Lo 12 o'clock

E‘s: Entire right parametrial margin

H-K: Entire left parametrial margin

L~M= Tumor with deepest invasion at 9 o'clock

N~O: Tumor with deepest invasion at 12 o'cLock

P 0: Tumor with deepest anOSIOn at 1 o'clock

Res: Tumor with deepest invasion at 3 o'clock

T: Tumor with deepest invasion at 4 o‘clock

U; Cervix a: 5 O'clock

V: Cervix at 6 o‘clock

w: Cervix a: 8 o'clock

X: Lower anterior endometrium and myometrium (endocervical area is inked in
Dine}

Y: Upper anterior endometrium and myomeLrium

Z: Lower posterior endometrium and myometrium (endocervical area is inked
in black)

AA: Upper posterior endometrium and mynmetrium

AB: Right ovary and fallopian tube

AC; Left ovary and fallopian Lube

£1 oﬁg

Requested By
Ordered By:

4. The specimen is received fresh and labeled “left pelvic lymph node". It
consists of a piece of tan—red soft tissue, measuring 4.0 x 1.5 x 2.5 cm.
The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple possible lymph nodes
identified, measuring up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The spacinen is
entirely submitted in seven cassettes labeled a~G.

5. The specimen is received fresh and labeled "right pelvic lymph node".

It consists of a piece of tan-red soft tissue. measuring 3.7 x 3.5 x 3 .0
cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and multiple pOSSlbic lymph nodes
identified, measuring up to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is

entirely submitted in eight cassettes labeled A‘G.

6. The specimen is received fresh and labeled "portion of cervical tumor".
It consists of a piece of ten red to white tissue that measures 3.3 cm in

greatest dimension, entirely, submitted in one cassette Labeled 6.

~* Electronic Signature **

I certify that I personally conducted the diagnostlc evaluation of the

above specimenls) and have rendered the final diagnosisﬂes).

Note: The histology, immunochemistry and in situ hybridizatxon components

tor this case were performed at

The Attending Pathologist reviewed thls case and made the d1agnosrs.

where applicable, immunohistochemlstry and in situ hybridization tests were
developed and the performance characteristics determined by the
Tmmunohistochemietry Laboratory, These tests
have not been Cleared or approved by the US rood and Drug Administration

and the results should be correlated with other clinical and laboratory

data. Appropriate controls were performed for all immunohistochemistry. in <
Criteria

situ hybridization and histochemlcal tests.

Tumor Silt:
mPAA
Prior

C353
Inidtls

5 051'”;

 

 

 

 

 

