Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received-

UUID: 3D48DFF8- -3565- 478C- 3503- 28015E2I§BeBBD
CG-A TS-A AI- BIA-PR

|IIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|I|II||IIII|I|I|||IIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIaIICIIed ; . .
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III Age years Sex Male Qﬁcessivoq No~
III|I|I||II|I||I|II||I||||II||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII , ””3””

Copy to:

 
 

 

Surgical Pathology Ilanar!

Clinical Information
year old male patient with history of mesothelioma presents for PDT and radical pleurectomy.

Final Diagnosis

1. PREVIOUS tNClSIDN Sl'FE:
Skin and underlying soft tissue with local presence of malignant mesothelioma, epithelial type.
Suture granuioma and chronic inflammation present.

2. LEFT RIB:
Portion of rib with bone marrow; no tumor seen.

3. HiLAFi NODE:
Fibroadipose tissue with presence of malignant mesothelioma, epithelial type.

4. PHFlENlC NODE;
One lymph node with local presence of metastatic malignant mesothelioma.

5. MAMMARY;
Fragments of libroadipose tissue with focal presence of malignant mesothelioma, epithelial type.
Fragments of vessel wait, no tumor see.

6. SUBCLAVIAN LYMPH NUDE:

Fibroadipose tissue and blood clowt with presence of biphasic malignant mesothelioma, predominantly epithelial
component.

7. RADICAL PLEUREGTOMY:

Biphasic malignant mesothelioma containing both epitheliod and sarcomatous components, predominantly epithelial
component.

Adherent alveolar lung tissue focally and superficially invaded Cbﬁmeor
Tumor focally invades into the skeletal muscle. :0 D4.) 3

Lymphovascular invasion is present 7 Ia “17¢ JAM/wk WM ( ”71"qu \‘j, 9052/3

Foreign body granuloma present.

, 9o “53}
8. PERICARIDIUMt . fuﬂMuwnL (Wt. ”110%wa ‘3
Fragmentoflibroadiposetlssue,notumorseen. 54k: pm)“, N05 C o? 4

527 )L/
9. 155T BIOPSY sure: 9x; ”6/ /
Fragments of libroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle with local presence ol biphasic malignant mesotheiioma,

predominantly epithelial com ponent,

l'

 

Name Date Printed:
MRN: Date Collected :
‘ Date Received:
008- Age: years Sex: Male Accession No
Loo; Physician:
Copy to:

  

 

 

Surgical Pill/1010.9] ﬂﬂﬂﬂll I

Skeletal muscle is not invoived by the tumor.

10. SECOND BIOPSY SITE:

Skin and underiying soft tissue with presence of biphasic malignant mesothelioma, predominantly epithelial component.
Tumor invades into the skeletal muscle.
Perineural invasion is present.

"it. THlRD BIOPSY SETE:
Skin and underlying soft tissue with presence of biphasic malignant mesotheiioma, predominantly epithelial component.

12. LEVEL 8:
Fibroadipose tissue with presence of biphasic malignant mesothelioma, predominantly epithelial component.

13‘ LEVEL 7:
Fragments of iymph nodes with focal presence oi metastatic malignant mesothelioma.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:

{Electronic signature}
Veriﬁcation Date: ‘

Frozen Section Diagnosis .
FS-l: Previous incision site: Malignant tumor present consistent with mesoihelioma.

F32: Perreardium: Pericardium with few clusters oi entrapped mesotheiial cells with no invasive pattern. Deter.

Gross Description .

The Specimen is received in 14 parts in a container labeled with the patients name and medical record number.
Specimen #t is received iresh for frozen section and designated “previous incision site“. The specimen consists of
multiple yellow tan white firm tissue lragments ranging from 1.0 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
submitted entirely in three cassettes labeled as tAFSi.

The remaining sections are submitted in two cassettes, 18 and 10.

Name: Page 2 of 4
M :

Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received:
Age: ‘years Sex: Male Accession No:—
Loc.; Physician:
Copy to:

   

 

| Surgical Pathology ﬂapnrt I

Specimen #2 is received in formalin and designated "left rib“ and consists of three portions of rib measuring 7.0 x 1.5 x 0.6
cm and 8.0 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm and 4.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm respectively. The surface of the rib has minimal amount of attached red
tan soft tissue. The specimen is entirely decalcified and representative sections are submitted in one cassette labeled 2A.

Specimen #3 is received in formalin and designated “hitter node“ and consists of red black anthracotic tissue measuring
2.0 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette labeled 3A.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin and designated ”phrenic node“ and consists of one pink tan firm tissue fragment
measuring 0.8 x i .0 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in one cassette labeled 4A.

Specimen #5 is received in formalin and designated "mammary" and consists of portion of vessel with two smaller
branches measuring 3.5 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter with two branches, each measuring 6.0 cm in length and 0.2
cm in diameter. The vessels have minimal amount of attached yellow tan lobulated adipose connective tissue
parenchyma. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in one cassette labeled 5A.

Specimen #6 is received in formalin and designated ‘isubclavlan lymph node“ and consists of two pink tan yellow firm
lymph nodes measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm and 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm respectively. The specimen is submitted entirely in one
cassette labeled 6A.

Specimen #7 is designated “radical pieurectomy“ and consists of radical pleurectomy with dome shaped configuration
measuring 22.0 x i6.0 x 8.0 cm and the pleural thickness averages from 0.4 to 1.8 cm in thickness. There is also
identifiable portion of diaphragm with minimal amount of attached red tan muscle and yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The
inner lining of the pleura is white tan shaggy with multiple adhesions. The specimen is serially sectioned disclosing white
yellow parenchyma. Also there is a separate piece of pleura measuring 12.0 x 8.0 x 0.8 cm and upon cross sectioning

disclosing red tan pink yellow interdigitating parenchyma. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in 10
cassettes labeled 7A through ru.

Specimen #8 is designated “pericardium“ and consists of previously frozen section of pink tan green membranous tissue
fragment measuring 1.2 x 0.2 x 0,1 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in one cassette labeled 8AF82.

Specimen #9 is designated “first biopsy site" and consists of one red tan irregular firm connective tissue and muscle

fragment measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in one cassette labeled
9A.

Specimen #10 is designated “second biopsy site" and consists of multiple yellow tan firm red muscle and connective
adipose tissue fragment, in aggregate, measuring 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and
representative sections are submitted in five cassettes labeled 10A through 10E.

Specimen #11 is designated "third biopsy site“ and consists of two red tan yellow tissue fragments, the largest measuring

5.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm with small portion of white tan skin and healed scar measuring 1.5 cm in length. The specimen is
serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled 11A through 110.

Name Page 3 of 4
M

Nam Date Printed:
MRN Date Collected -:
Date Received:

DOB‘Age: years Sex: Male Accession No“

Loo: ' Physician:
Copy to:

    

 

| Surgical P8100105]! ”8001'! l

Specimen #12 is designated ”level 8" and consists of one brown red firm tissue fragment measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x {3,3 cm.
The specimen is Submitted entirely in one cassette labeled 12A.

Specimen #13 is designated “level 7“ and consists of multiple red tan black anthracoiic tissue fragments ranging from 0.3
to 2.0 cm in greatest dimensien. The specimen is submitted entirely in two cassettes iabeled 13A and 138,

Case reviewed with attending pathologist.
{Dictation by:

mutated by:

Pathologist(s)

(PM bx Mi)

Yes Na

  
       
      

“MOI
HIPAA
Paint

    
   
 
   
 

is

 

