   

CGA — 65 - 2773

Material examined:

Right lower lobe, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma right _ squamous cell -. Suspected asbestos exposure. ‘

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Right lower lobe: after attempted inﬂation of lower lobe at the deformed base measuring 10.5 x 7.5 cm and
up to 12 cm high, central bronchus resection plane located at the level of the bifurcation of B6. At the hilus are
two grayish—black nodes, 2 and 1.3 cm in size. Parenchyma shows incomplete atelectasis or compression by a
tumor that is soft to moderately ﬁrm, focally softened and these areas yellowish, otherwise predominantly pale
brownish, in sections with small grayish-black patches, with the main mass in segment 8 and adjacent sections
of S6 and 89, max. 8.5 cm in size, with a predominantly clear and somewhat arcuate demarcation, extending
right up to the pleura at the junction 86/8. Opening or truncation of intermediate branches of B8 in the tumor.
Narrowing of some subsegmental branches of B6 and B9. Pleura shows diffuse dark discoloration and extensive
ragged grayish—yellow coating.

2.) Parietal pleura: ﬂat preparation 8.5 x 3.2 cm and up to 0.7 cm thick with turbid and patchy brownish
discoloration, in some areas with ragged grayish—yellow coating of surface.

3.) Lobar LN (station 12) upper lobe right: 1.8 cm lesioned node or node part.

4.) Lobar LN (station 12) middle lobe right: 2 cm lesioned node or node part.

5.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: two 0.6 cm lesioned nodes or node parts.

6.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) right: three lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts between 0.3 and
0.4 cm, with some surrounding tissue in parts.

7.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) right: 1.2 cm lesioned grayish-black node.

8.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: foot lesioned grayish—black nodes or node parts between 0.5 and 1.2
cm.

9.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3) right: 2.2 cm lesioned node or node part.

Examined:

1.) 2 sections of tumor with rest of parenchyma, 3 sections with pleura, S8 ventrobasal, 810 dorsal, central
bronchus resection plane, resection margins of vessels, hilar nodes (larger ones halved),

2.) 6 sections,

3.) - 9.) All material (in 3., 4. + 9. preparation halved in each case),

15 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS, iron staining.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Large, intermediate to peripheral bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated, large-cell and
polymorpbocellular nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the right lower lobe of the lung mainly located
in SS.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pNO pMX R0, stage B. 034.3 M80703.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Focally marked active chronic inﬂammation predominantly in the tumor and focal chronic organizing retention
pneumonia at the tumor margin (sample 1.)). Fibrinous chronic granulating and ﬁbrosing visceral (sample 1.))
and parietal pleuritis (sample 2.)). Uncharacteristie chronic, predominantly interstitial inﬂammation and ﬁbrosis
associated with focal ﬁbrous and small honeycomb-like parenchyma remodeling along the ventrobasal margin
of 88. Subpleural accentuated intraalveolar macrophage accumulation in 810 (sample l.)). Lymph nodes with
uncharacteristic reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 1.) and 3.) ~ 9.)).
Remarldaddendum:

An unequivocal inﬁltration of the visceral pleura cannot be found. The resection margin of the bronchus and
vessels and all lymph nodes identiﬁed and excised are tumor—free.

No asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes. But very much timber—reaching investigations,
especially dust analyses, are needed to determine the asbestos exposure of the lung.

 

