Surgical Pathology Final Report

Tem ora Co y
Case:

 

Collected: _ . ll:

Ordered by: Leo-anon—
. I .'

Final Diagnosis |
Left lower lobe of lung. surgical resection with operating 'room consultation:
Pulmonary adenocarcinoma (7 cm in maximum dimension).
Tumor does not penetrate lung pleural surface.
Bronchial margins of surgical excision free.
No lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed.
Four (4) peribronchial lymph nodes negative.

 
 

#5 subaortic- lymph node dissection:
Multiple fragments of lymphoid tissue negative for malignancy.

#9 Pulmonary ligament lymph node dissection:
Two (2) negative lymph nodes.

#6 Para-aortic lymph node dissection:

#8 Paraesophageal lymph node dissection:
Three (3) negative nodes.

#7 Subcarinal lymph node dissection:
One (1) negative node.

Comment: This case corresponds to a pathological AJCC stage of T2b N0.

 

 

Adenocarcinoma LLL.

Operating Room Consultation

Left lower lobe lung adenocarcinoma.

ORC - Tissue from tumor, paranormal and normal submitted for genomics studies.
No F5 requested.

Visceral pleura inked black over tumor-

l
|
Clinical Information
|
l

 

Gross Description

Surgical Pathology FinalReport . -
Tempora Copy . Page 2-ofl'2

Case:

  

Collected:
Ordered by:

  
  
   

"A. Left lower lung lobe.” The specimenconsists of a 19.5 x 13.6 x 6.8 cm portion ilung. The pleural surface is blue-gr
There is a 2 cm ﬁrm, puckered area present on the pleural surface. This area will b

The remaining lung parenchyma is red-brown and markedly congested. and no ad
grossly identiﬁed. Four possible. peribronchiai lymph nodes are identiﬁed. These re ge in size from 1.2 to 1.4 cm. "A1.”
bronchial margin: "A2." vascular margins; "A3.” mass with overlying pleura} "All-A5 " mass; ”Aﬁ“' mass with adjacent

parenchyma; ”AT-AB.“ peribronchial lymph nodes.

Received for research purposes is one yellow cassette label

one green cassette labeled
and one blue cassette labeled '

"B. 5 subaortic.“ The specimen consists of a 1.4 x 1.3 cm ragged, anthracotic portion of lymphoid tissue. "B," fragments.

y.
inked black. On sectioning. there iséla 7 x
6.7 x 5.7 cm soft, gray-tan, friable mass, which abuts the pleural surface and come to within 5 cm of the bronchial marg n.
itional lesions or areas of interest are

 

all.

"C. #9 pulmonary ligament." The specimen consists of2 anthracotic lymph nodes, which measure 0.? and 0.3 cm. "C," 4ip all.

"D. #6 paraaortic." The specimen consists of a 1.3 x 1 cm red-gray lymph node. "Di" 3;). all.

"E. #8 paraesophageal." The specimen consists of3 portions of red-gray lymphoid tissue ranging in size from 0.7 x 0.5 tci: 2.2 x

1.2 cm. "E1-E3," fragments, all.

(

 

"F. #7 subcarinal." The specimen consists of a 1.8 x 1 cm red-gray lymph node with a small amount of attached fat. "F,“ Pp. ail.

 

 

