Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Mediastinal mass, resection:
Thymoma, type A.
1.6 cm in the largest dimension.
Completely excised.

B. Lymph node, 11R, resection:
No evidence of malignancy (1 lymph node).

C. Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
Specimen: Lung; Lobe of lung (specify): right upper lobe
Procedure: Lobectomy

Specimen laterality: right

Tumor site: right upper lobe

Specimen integrity: previously incised, but intact

Tumor size: 8.3 cm (greatest dimension)

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Tumor grade: well differentiated

Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified.

Tumor extension: Not identified

Margins:
Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Parietal pleural margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Chest wall margin: Not applicable
Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable

If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1 mm
Specify margin: Parietal pleural margin

Treatment effect: Not
Lymph-vascular invasion: not present
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):

TNM Descriptors: none

Primarytumor(pT): pT3
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO

Numberexamined: 24

Number involved: 0

If lymph node(s) involved, specify involved nodal station(s): NA
Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional pathologic findings: Focal emphysematous changes

D. Lymph node, 9R, inferior pulmonary ligament, resection:
No evidence of malignancy (3 lymph node).

E. 7R lymph nodes, resection:
No evidence of malignancy (8 lymph nodes).

F. 4R lymph nodes, resection:
No evidence of malignancy (13 lymph nodes).
Calcifying hyalinized granuloma.
No evidence of malignancy.

Note:
lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Mediastinal mass:
Thymic tissue with spindle cell neoplastic proliferation. No metastatic
adenocarcinoma identified. Wait for permanent sections
for further clarification.

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in six parts, all labeled with the patient's name.

Part A is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis additionally labeled
"mediastinal mass" and consists of a 5.3 x 2.6 x 0.7 cm portion of yellow-tan
fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals a cystic like structure with a granular wall
that is 3 x 2 x 1 cm and is does not contain any fluid. The remaining portion
of tissue has a yellow-tan lobulated smooth and glistening cut surface.
Residual frozen tissue is submitted in cassette A1. Other representative
sections are submitted in cassettes A2-3.

Part B is received in a single formalin filled container additionally labeled
"11R" and consists of a 2.1 x 1.8 x 1.4 cm red-brown irregular portion of soft
tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassettes
B1 -2.

Part C is received fresh for collection by the Tissue Bank and. It

is additionally labeled "right upper lobe" and consists of a previously incised
lung lobe that is 17 x 7 x 3.5 cm. There is additionally, another portion of

lung tissue in the same container that is 7 x 3 x 0.7 cm, which most likely came
from the area previously incised on the larger portion. There is an 8.3 x 3.5 x
3.5 cm white-tan irregular, partially necrotic mass where the previous incision
has been made. This lesion abuts the pleural surface in this area and is 2 cm
from the nearest bronchial and vascular margin. The nearest lung parenchymal
margin is 1.6 cm from the lesion. Further sectioning of the mass reveals a
white to yellow-tan, multiloculated, partially hemorrhagic and necrotic mass.
The mass appears to be involving the pleura, but not penetrating completely
through the pleura.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1 bronchial and vascular margins;
C2-3 mass to include overlying pleura;
045 mass to include adjacent lung parenchyma;
CB uninvolved lung parenchyma.

Part D is received in a single formalin filled container additionally labeled
"9R; inferior pulmonary ligament" and consists of a 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm portion
of lymph node with attached fibrous tissue. The specimen is bisected and
entirely submitted in cassette D1.

Part E is received in a single formalin filled container additionally labeled

"7R" and consists of multiple portions of irregular nodal tissue admixed with
fibrous tissue, ranging from 1.5 to 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen
is submitted in toto in cassettes E1 -2.

Part F is received in a single formalin filled container additionally labeled
"4R" and consists of two portions of fibrofatty soft tissue that are 4.0 x 1.3 x
0.5 cm and 2.6 x 1.2 x 0.9 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified, ranging
from 0.3 to 1.0 cm.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
F1 multiple whole lymph nodes;
F2 one lymph node bisected;
F3 one lymph node bisected;
F4 one lymph node bisected;
F5 residual tissue for further lymph node capture.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

Taken:-

END OF REPORT

