SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT

Case Number :

Diagnosis:
A: Uterus, cervix, total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy

 

Location of tumor: endometrium /WW Wm'n‘d, p05
. . . . 8334/3
Histologic type: endometitﬂd adenocarcmoma SI“ . I ~ C 54 l
. . . 9/4"
HIStOIOgIC grade (FIGO): 3 (architectural grade 3, nuclear grade 3) (A16) M

Extent of invasion:

Myometrial invasion: Inner half
Depth: 5 mm Wall thickness: 1.5

cm Percent: 33% (A16, deeper level)

Serosal involvement: absent

 

Lower uterine segment involvement: absent

UUID:1C53C957-1AOA-46AF-A538-
TCGA- EV-AiGR-el 0287683052“

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lluﬁiliﬁmmmnmilﬁl‘ilililied

. llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Adnexal involvement (see below): absent Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll "I'll",”Hilﬂllllwlll‘l'lllnlﬂ I"

Cervical involvement: absent

Other sites: N/A

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: widely free of tumor
Lymphovascular Space invasion: present (A5)

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):

Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 25

Other Pathologic ﬁndings: none

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry results:

AJCC Pathologic stage: pT1a pNO pMX

FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: lA

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
— No tumor seen

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- No tumor seen

B: Lymph node, left pelvic, removal
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/8)

C: Lymph node, right pelvic, removal
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/8)

D: Lymph node, left periaortic, removal
— Three lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/3)

E: Lymph node, right periaortic removal
- Six lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/6)

Clinical History:
The patient is with a history of grade 3 uterine cancer.

Gross Description:
Specimen A is received in an appropriately labeled container.

Adnexa: Bilateral ovaries and tubes present with specimen.
Weight: 450.09 grams

Shape: Grapefruit shaped

Dimensions:

height: 11 cm

anterior to posterior width: 9.5 cm

breadth at fundus: 10.0 cm

Serosa: Tan/pink, smooth and glistening

Cervix:

length of endocervical canal: 3.5 cm

ectocervix: White/pink with focal areas of hemorrhage.

endocervix: Yellow/tan and trabeculated. There was a

small 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm polypoid mass on the anterior endocervix.

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 6.0 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 6.5 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 8.9 cm anterior to posterior x 7.5 cm medial to lateral x 5.6 cm from cephalad to caudad.
appearance: Large tan/white fungating mass

location and extent: Appears to invade both anterior and posterior endometrial cavities.

myometrial invasion: Gross invasion is identified to the inner one-half on the anterior side and posterior side.
thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.5 cm
other ﬁndings or comments: None

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 2.4 x 1.6 x 1.4 cm

external surface: Pink/tan, convoluted

cut surface: Tan/yellow variegated without masses.

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 5.5 x 0.5 cm

other findings: Fimbriated end present

Left ovary:

dimensions: 2.6 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm

external surface: Tan/pink, convoluted without masses.

cut surface: Yellow/tan variegated with focal areas of hemorrhage.
Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 5.4 x 0.5 cm

other ﬁndings: Fimbriated end present

Lymph nodes: Per blocks B-E

Other comments: None
Digital photograph taken: No
Tissue submitted for special investigations:

Block Summary:

A1 - anterior cervix

A2 - posterior cervix

A3 - anterior lower uterine segment

A4 - posterior uterine segment

A5-A6 - anterior mid corpus from superﬁcial to deep
A7 — anterior upper corpus/fundus

A8 — additional section anterior upper corpus/fundus
A9-A10 - posterior upper corpus/fundus, bisected

A11-A12 — posterior mid corpus, bisected

A14-A15 - posterior upper corpus, bisected

A16-A17 — additional section anterior upper corpus/fundus
A18 - right ovary and right fallopian tube

A19 - left ovary and left fallopian tube

(A13 block not submitted)

Specimen B is received in an appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled "L pelvic lymph node" and is a 4.8 x 3.0
x 1.8 cm aggregate of tan/yellow fibroadipose tissue with lymph node candidates.

Block Summary:

81 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
82 - three lymph node candidates

B3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
B4 - four lymph node candidates
Fibroadipose tissue remains.

Specimen C is received in an appropriately labeled container additionally labeled "R pelvic lymph node" and is a 4.7 x 4.7
x 1.6 cm aggregate of tan/yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue with lymph node candidates.

Block Summary:

C1-C2 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
C3 - four lymph node candidates

C4 - two lymph node candidates

C5 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
C6 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
Fibroadipose tissue remains.

Specimen D is received in an appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled "L periaortic LN" and is a 3.2 x 1.6 x 0.9
cm aggregate of fibroadipose tissue and lymph node candidates.

Block Summary:
01 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
DZ - additional lymph node candidate with remaining ﬁbroadipose tissue, NTR

Specimen E is received in an appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled "R periaortic LN" and is a 2.5 x 2.1 x 0.7
cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue and lymph node candidates.

Block Summary:

E1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
E2 - four lymph node candidates
Fibroadipose tissue

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum

lmmunostains for ER and PR are performed on a representative block of endometrial tumor. The tumor is ER positive (1-
2+, 85%) and PR positive (2+, 65%).

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified
as analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

"' . These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

