    

INAL ATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Omentum, resection: Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.

B. Uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:
1. Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma of the right and left ovaries, involving the
mucosa of the right fallopian tube.

2. Atrophic endometrium.

3. Leiomyomata.

4. Uterine serosa with carcinomatous implant, see comment.

C. Rectosigmoid colon, segmental resection: Carcinomatous implant with
lymphovascular invasion.

D. Pelvic tumor, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

E. Perirectal tissue,'biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

F. Cul de sac, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

G. Bladder flap, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

H. Lesser omentum, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

I. Appendix, appendectomy: Carcinomatous implant.

J. Small bowel mesentery, excision: Carcinomatous implant.
Page 1 of4

K. Left parametrium, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.
L. “Anastomosis ring," biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.
VI. Umbilical nodule, biopsy: Carcinomatous implant.

COMMENT:
Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Type of tumor: serous carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: III.
3. Location of tumor: Bilateral.
4. Diameter of tumor: 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Tumor on surface.
6. Condition of capsule: Not described.
7. Appearance of cut surface: Solid.
8. Color of solid areas: White.
9. Necrosis: Focal.
10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Lymphovascular space invasion, slide C3.
11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Fallopian tube, uterine serosa, cul de sac, left parametrium.
12. Pelvic lymph nodes: None sampled
13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Omentum, ,umbiiical nodule, appendix, serosa of bowel.
14. Para-aortic lymph nodes: None sampled
15. Peritoneal cytology: Negative.
16. Other significant findings: Leiomyomata.
17. FIGO stage: III
18. TNM stage: pT3NXMX.
The tumor stains strongly for p53 and weakly-moderately positive for WT-l. This staining pattern suggests
that this is an ovarian primary. This is also supported by bilateral ovarian involvement and absence of
neoplasm in the endometrial cavity.
Specimen(s) Received
.Omentum (FS)
B:Uterus +/— tubes/ovaries (FS)

 

 

C:Rectal sigmoid colon
D: Pelvic tumor -

ErPararectal tumor

F:Cul de sac tumor
G:Bladder flap tumor
H:Lesser omentum
I:Appendlx

J:Small bowel mesenteric
K:Left parametrium
L:Anastomosis rings
M:Umbilical nodule

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 (A) Omentum, resection: High-grade carcinoma. (_

F52 (B) Uterus, bilateral adnexa h sterectomy and bile era sa pingo—oophorectomy: High—grade
camrwa-m #

Page 2 of 4

Clinical Histor
The patient is 6—, G3 P1, with a 17 x 11 cm complex pelvic mass, carcinomatosis, and
an increased CA—125 level (443). The patient undergoes exploratory laparotomy, total abdominal

hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy, omentectomy, appendectomy, tumor debulking and
rectosigmoid resection with a primary anastomosis.

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in thirteen parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.
Part A is additionally labeled "omentum." It consists of a single fragment of omentum, measuring 22 x 18
x
3 cm. The omentum is studded with multiple white-pink nodules, ranging in size from 0.2 cm to 5.0 cm. A
representative section is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F81, with the frozen section remnant
submitted in cassette A1. An additional representative section is submitted in cassette A2.
Part B is additionally labeled "uterus, cervix, ovaries and tubes plus tumor." It consists of a single
hysterectomy specimen weighing 800 grams and measuring 14 cmfrom fundus to cervix, 4.5 cm from
cornu to cornu and 9.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The cervical portion of the specimen measures 3 cm
in length and 2 cm in diameter. The uterus is distorted by multiple firm, white—tan, whorled leiomyomata
ranging in size from 0.3—5.5 cm in average diameter. No necrosis or hemorrhage is identified in any of the
ieiomyomata. The endometrium is tan-pink and measures 0.2 cm in average thickness. The myometrium
is distorted by the multiple leiomyomata and therefore ranges in thickness from 1.0—2.7 cm in thickness.
The uterus is oriented by the peritoneal reflections. Within the left adnexa, there is a 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.3-cm
firm, white nodule which may represent ovarian tissue. There is an additional firm, white-yellow, solid
region measuring 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.0 cm which may represent tumor within the adnexa. A small segment of
fallopian tube is identified measuring approximately 3 cm in length and 0.8 cm in average diameter. There
are additional small, white, firm nodules which apparently represent tumor studding the adnexai tissue.
These nodules obscure the normal anatomy and make orientation difficult. The right adnexa contains a
firm, white region measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm which may represent ovarian tissue. A portion of fallopian
tube measuring approximately 4 cm in length and 0.7 cm in average diameter is present. Again, multiple
firm, white regions, possibly representing tumor are present within the adnexa precluding exact
identification of the normal anatomy. A representative section of the specimen is submitted for frozen
section analysis as frozen section #2, with the remnant submitted in cassette Bl. Within the specimen
container, there are multiple unoriented fragments of firm, white-tan tissue representing tumor measuring
13.5 x 13 x 4 cm in aggregate. Representative sections of the remainder of the specimen are submitted as
follows:
Cassette BZ: Anterior cervix.

assette B3: Posterior cervix.
Cassette B4: Anterior endomyometrium.

 

    

Cassette BS: Posterior endomyometrium.
Cassette B6—B7: Representative sections of leiomyomata.

Cassettes 88—810: Representative sections of left adnexa.

Cassettes 811-1313: Representative sections of right adnexa.

Cassette B14: Representative sections of loose tumor fragments.

Part C is additionally labeled "rectosigmoid colon." It consists of a single segment of colon, measuring 7.1
cm in length and 2.0 cm in average diameter. Adherent to the serosal surface is mesenteric fat,
measuring

10.5 x 9.0 x 3.0 cm, which is studded with abundant firm, white nodules, ranging in size from 0.2 cm to
2.5 cm. The largest of these nodules abuts the radial surface of the colon. However, it does not appear to
invade the muscular wall nor the mucosa. The pericolonic fat is extensively studded with tumor, and
therefore, an adequate lymph node dissection cannot be performed. The specimen was received with
staple

lines at each colonic resection margin. One end is inked in blue and the opposite inked in black for
microscopic evaluation (no orientation was provided). A representative section of tumor is taken for
Oncotech analysis. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes C1-C2: Resection margins (perpendicular).

Cassettes C3-C5: Tumor in approach to colonic wall.

Cassette C6: Additional representative section of pericolonic fat.

Page 3 of 4

Part D, additionally labeled "tumor," consists of multiple, unoriented fragments of white~brown tissue
measuring 12 x 10 x 4 cm in aggregate. Some areas reveal punctate hemorrhage. Representative sections
are submitted in cassettes Dl—D3. The hemorrhagic area is represented in D2.

Part E, additionally labeled "para—rectal tumor," consists of one unoriented fragment of white-brown tissue
measuring 4 x 3 x 3 cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassette E1.

Part F, additionally labeled "cul-de-sac tumor," consists of multiple, unoriented, white—brown tissue
fragments measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. Representative sections are submitted in cassette
F1.

Part G, additionally labeled "bladder flap tumor," consists of multiple unoriented, white—brown tissue
fragments measuring 3 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm in aggregate. Representative sections are submitted in cassette
(31.

Part H, additionally labeled "lesser omentum," consists of one unoriented fragment of white-tan tissue
measuring 4 x 3 x 2 cm and a yellow-brown, fibroadipose tissue fragment measuring 3 x 1.5 x 1 cm,
which

is attached to the white-tan component. Representative sections are submitted in cassette H1.

Part I, additionally labeled “appendix," consists of a 4 cm in length x 0.6 cm in average diameter appendix
with attached yellow—brown mesoappendix. The serosal surface of the appendix is brown and glistening.
At the tip of the appendix, a white-brown, cirrhotic lesion is present, measuring 1.8 x 1.2 x 1 cm,
involving

the tip of the appendix. The tip of the appendix, including the transition into the white, cirrhotic lesion, is
submitted in cassettes 11-12. Representative cross—sections of the appendix and mesoappendix are
submitted in cassette 13.

Part J, additionally labeled "small bowel mesenteric," consists of multiple, unoriented, white—tan tissue
fragments measuring 1 x 1 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is wrapped in tissue paper and entirely
submitted in cassette J1.

Part K, additionally labeled "left parametrium,“ consists 'of one unoriented, white-brown tissue segment
measuring 2 x 2 x 1.3 cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassette K1.

Part L, additionally labeled ”anastomosis rings, " consists of two brown-tan donuts measuring 1.2 cm in
diameter. An en face section of each donut is submitted in cassettes L1—L2.

Part M, additionally labeled "umbilical nodule," consists of three unoriented, brown-white fragments
measuring 2 x 1.5 x 1 cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassette M1.

riiagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending

 

 

 

