 

Material examined:

Left lower iobe

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma of the left lower lobe.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Left lower lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed left lower lobe measuring 15 x 10 cm at the base, up to 19.5 cm high, central
bronchus resection plane located at the level of bifurcation B6 and the bronchus of the lower group. A staple
suture line runs from the hilus in a ventral direction for 2.5 cm, and a staple suture line runs from the hilus in a
cranial direction for 3.5 cm. Visceral pleura over 36/810 in the laterodorsal region shows an area of whitish
thickening and ﬂat protrusion and retraction measuring about 6.5 x 3.5 cm. Under this is a ﬁrm tumor, max. 5
cm in size, with a vaguely arcuate conﬁguration and centrai resorption. Peripheral branches of B6, B9 and B 10
leading into the tumor. Parenchyma in the tumor margin area partly compacted and pale. Inclusion of vascular
branches in the tumor. Rest of parenchyma largely inconspicuous.

2.) Lobar LN (station 12) lingula: 1 cm node.

3.) Lobar LN (station 12) lower lobe: two nodes, 1.2 cm and 0.7 cm.

4.) Interlobar LN (station 11) left: 1.5 cm node.

5.) Hiiar LN (station 10) left: four nodes between 0.6 cm and 1.5 cm, partly linked together.

6.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) left: three nodes between 0.4 cm and 0.9 cm.

7.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: 1.7 cm fatty tissue with three nodes between 0.5 cm and 1 cm.

8.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3) left: three nodes between 0.3 cm and 1.2 cm with surrounding
tissue.

9.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 1.5 cm node

10.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): 2 cm node with surrounding tissue

11.) Subaortic LN (aortopuhnonary window) (station 5): 1 cm node with surrounding tissue

12.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: two lesioned nodes, 1.5 cm and 1 cm

13.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 1.8 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

Examined:

l.) a+b: Tumor with pleura and resorption lacuna, c: tumor with peripheral branch of B9, (:1: SS peripherai, e:
bronchus and vessel resection margins (tangential),

2.) - 13.) All material (in 13.) lamellated)

17 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS

 

Microscopy

Re 1.): Tumor made up of complexes of destructive growth and longer, partly reticulate structures of large
atypical epithelia in a multilayered arrangement, repeatedly showing vaguely squamous cell layers, with partly
copious eosinophilic or clear, otherwise stained cytoplasm with inclusion of disorganized, anisomorphic nuclei
of differing sizes, which also show an enlarged chromatin structure. Nucleoii always prominent. Inter-cellular
gaps and bridges. Isolated small islands of large tumor cells layered rather like onion skins. Occasionally
intracellular granular, diastase-digestible, PAS-positive particles and at the same time also small lacunae
surrounded by tumor cells and containing diastase-resistant, PAS-positive material, with epithelia here at the
margin also visible in parts as bronchioloalveolar in nature. Between the tumor cell structures smaller areas of
necrosis with partly degraded granulocytes and other cell debris. Then a lacuna formation with abundant
necmtic material, here and there remnants of delicate alveolar septa and vessels still visible. Also cholesterol
crystal gaps and accumulation of various inﬂammatory cells. Isolated relatively small vessels in the tumor with
tumor cell nests in the lumen. In parts there is a transfer of tumor cell structures to original respiratory
epithelium. In the region of cholesterol crystal gaps is an accumulation of large, mostly foamy macrophages
also within the very conﬁned, nonoxygenated subpleural _'-n?) that is still present. In
some sections, the tumor also extends directly to the pleura, where the pleural elastic fascia is destroyed and
transcended by a few tumor cell nests. Above this, the pleura is markedly enlarged in parts by connective tissue,
and in the region of its surface is an accentuated accumulation of inﬂammatory cells, proliferation of
mesenchymal spindle cells and capillary vessels and various inﬂammatory cells and ﬁbrin plaque. Tumor
growth in a central direction, partially surrounding larger vessels with inﬁltration and partial destruction of a
bronchus. Further inflammatory cell inﬁltrates in the marginal adjacent parenchyma of the lung, where there are
interstitial follicular lymphocyte aggregates. Small intraalveolar groups of brown pigmented macrophages.
Otherwise essentially preserved alveolar stroma. Only circumscribed lymphocyte—rich inﬁltrates in the region of
the peripheral airways and respiratory bronchioles and alveolar duct. No evidence of tumor at the‘resection
margins of bronchus and large pulmonary vessels. The stroma of the bronchus shows an increase in elastic
connective tissue ﬁbers, as well as some chronic inﬂammatory cells, in part follicularly compressed and also
manifest in the region of bronchial glands. A few of them are atrophied. In between or alongside are islets of
fatty tissue.

Re 2.) —l3.) Some lymph nodes 4 in particular the larger ones a show an increase in secondary follicles with
inclusion of large and partly active germinal centers. Small patches of anthracotic pigment deposits,
accumulation of large-cell macrophages, in a few cases also small clusters of epithelioid monocytes. Partial
enlargement of the sinus, with larger monocytoid cells here in places.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Large, peripheral, bronchopulmonary, histologically predominantly large-cell, slightly to moderately
differentiated, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the left lower lobe of the lung. TNM classiﬁcation
according to this picture pT2 pNO (0/23) V1 R0. Stage B. C 34.3; M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Partial necrotic tumor change with formation of a relatively large resorption lacuna. Tumor—associated active
chronic, partially resorptive inﬂammation and also locally conﬁned chronic ﬁbrinous, partly already relatively
high—grade ﬁbrosing pleuritis. Signs suggestive of a slight respiratory bronchiolitis. Chronic bronchitis and
small foci of fatty tissue metaplasia at the bronchus resection margin. Lymph node with slight anthraeotic
pigment deposits and to some extent marked reactive follicular hyperplasia.

Remark/addendum:

To a minimal extent the carcinoma has invaded the overlying visceral pleura, which is markedly ﬁbrosed here.
In a central direction, the tumor has partially inﬁltrated and destroyed the bronchi of the basal group, the main
tumor mass being located in cranial sections of segment ll). Bronchus and vessel resection margins are tumor—
free.

 

