Date Coll: -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

SPECIMEN
A. R4 lymph node
B. Level 10 lymph node
C. Right lobe stitch marks probably
D. R4 lymph node
E. Level 7 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

A) R4 lymph node, biopsy: Negative for carcinoma. —

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "R4 lymph
node" and consists of multiple pieces of red and black soft
tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.7 x 0.3 cm. in aggregate. The entire
n is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as requested.

B. Specimen is received unfixed labeled "level 10 lymph

node." Specimen is received unfixed and consists of two
pieces of pink and red soft tissue measuring 2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm in
aggregate. AS-1.

C. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "right lobe"

and consist of 175 gram lung lobe with a stapled margin.
The specimen measures 12 x 8.5 x 6 cm. The pleural surface has a
clefted appearance and there is a central firm area by palpation.
On cut section there is a central firm white mass, the white area
measures 4 by approximately 3 cm. In cross sectional dimension, a
portion of this area may be peritumoral change. A portion of

n is taken for research purposes. Sections after fixation.

Block summary: 1—bronchial and vascular margin of resection, 2-next
level of bronchus and vessels, 3-4 tumor, 5,6 pulmonary margin, 7—11
tumor

D. Specimen is received unfixed labeled "R4 lymph node"

and consists of a piece of black and red soft tissue
measuring 1 x 0.4 x 0.7 cm. AS-1.

E. Specimen is received unfixed labeled "level 7 lymph

node" and consists of multiple pieces of red and black soft
tissue occupying approximately 2.5 mL in volume. AS—2.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Multiple lymph node pieces are negative for malignancy
B. There is no evidence of malignancy in either of 2 lymph nodes.

C.

Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma
Tumor grade: 2
Mitotic Index: 12 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
Tumor size: 4 cm
Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
Pleura: Negative for malignancy
Vascular invasion: Absent
Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy
in

one peribronchial lymph node
pTNM Stage: T2a
Non-tumorous lung: Unremarkable.

D. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
E. Multiple lymph node pieces are negative for malignancy.

3x4,4,14

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node, R4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy
B. Lymph node, level X, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy
in either of 2 lymph nodes

C. Lung, right lobe, resection: Moderately well-differentiated
adenocarcinoma

D. Lymph node, R4, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

E. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy: Negative for malignancy

 

——— End Of Report ---

