 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

   

 

PATIENT: . MRN:

ACCOUNT#: RECEIVED DATE:

DOB: PROCEDURE DATE:

AGE: SIGN-OUT DATE:

ATTENDING: LOCATION:

REQUESTING:

CONTACT NO: ROOM: -
COPIES TO:

DIAGNOSIS: -

1. Kidney, right “base of tumor” (excision): Kidney parenchyma, no tumor seen.

2. Kidney, right “right renal mass” (excision): Chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (3.8cm); inked perinephric fat is
not involved. Areas of necrosis and hemorrhage, see Note.

3. Soft tissue, ‘Tatover tumor” (excision): Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

NOTE: The tumor cells are positive for c-kit (CD117). _ reviewed the case and concurs with the
diagnosis.

The immuno eroxidase tests erformed here were develo ed and their performance characteristics determined
by the . They have not been cleared or approved

by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has also determined that such clearance or a roval is not
necessary. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of LIA) as
qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL. INFORMATION: Brief Clinical Histo :Ri ht renal mass 5/ right partial nephrectomy
S ecimen Taken Fo

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: Right renal mass Post-Operative Diagnosis:
Right renal mass Operative Findings: 3x4 cm right lower pole renal
mass excised with negative margins on frozen section

 

Patient Identiﬁcation Sur ical Pathology Report

!

    

l

Page 1 of 3

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD —| Surgical Pathology Report

 

    

 

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. BIOPSY, NOS, LEVEL 5 SECTIONING, Base of tumor (1FS)

2. KIDNEY, RIGHT, Renal mass
3. FAT, Over tumor

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
1FS Diagnosis: Kidney parenchyma, no tumor seen.

This frozen diagnosis was performed by—-

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Received are 3 containers labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and further described as

follows:

1. Received from the OR labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number and “base of tumor" is a
fragment of pink/tan soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. It is frozen as 1FS1. Per OR, the specimen is

margin, question of presence of tumor.

In Surgical Pathology, the remainder of the tissue received and the contents of the contents in the green cassette
labeled 1FS1 istransferred to an orange cassette labeled for serial 5 sectioning.

,2. The specimen is labeled “right renal mass" consists of an unoriented piece of kidney with attached mass which
has a thin fibrous capsule surrounding the mass. The specimen weighs 31.9 grams and measures 4.5 x 3.9 x 3.7
cm. Surgical margins are inked blue and the specimen is bivalved brown thick material consistent with _old blood
and tan/red solid areas toward the periphery. 5% is procured for TlL for research. The remainder is sent to
Surgical Pathology. The procurement and this initial description were performed by

In Surgical Pathology, the remainder of the tissue received. It is consistent with the above description. The cystic
area measures 3.8x3.8x3.5 cm. in the lumen of the cyst, there are several solid mahogany brown areas, the
largest nodule measuring 1.3 cm in diameter. Representative sections from the nodules are placed in white
cassettes labeled ' ... Other hemorrhagic cyst wall areas in 2D.

3. “Fatover tumor”. The specimen consists of multiple ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments measuring in aggregate 1.5
x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. The entire specimen is submitted into white cassettes labeled ‘ I and B.

Gross dictated by—

No consultants

 

Patientldentiﬁcation Surgical Pathology Report

    

Page 2 of 3

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

5 .

Sur ical Pathology Report

   

Page 3 of 3

 

