 

CGA -Bll—5152

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
A: Right anterior muscle, removal
- No tumor seen.

B: Right middle muscle, removal
- No tumor seen.

C: Right lateral muscle, removal
- No tumor seen.

D: Right posterior mucosa] margin, removal
- No tumor seen.

E: Right posterior middle margin, removal
- No tumor seen.

F: Right anterior mucosal margin, removal
- No tumor seen.

G: Right posterior deep margin, removal
— No tumor seen.

H: Right middle deep margin, removal
— No tumor seen.

1: Right anterior deep margin, removal
— No tumor seen.

I: Right anterior ﬂoor of month, removal
- Benign salivary gland tissue with focal atrophic changes, no tumor seen.

K: Right lateral ﬂoor of mouth, removal
— Benign salivary gland tissue with focal atrophic changes, no tumor seen.

L: Left neck, level 1, removal
- Benign adipose tissue, no tumor seen, no lymph node seen.

M: Lymph nodes, right neck level 1, removal
- No tumor seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).

N: Right neck, level 2 lymph nodes, removal
- No tumor seen in three lymph nodes (0/3).
— Submandibular gland present with no tumor seen.

0: Right neck, ievel 3 lymph nodes, removal
- No tumor seen in tutelve lymph nodes (0/ 12).

P: Right mandible mass, removal

 

Histologic tumor type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Tumor extent: Tumor arises in the gingiva overlying the mandible and invades into the bone of mandible
Presence/absence of CIS: not identiﬁed

Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: Not identiﬁed
Presence/absence of perineural space invasion: Not identiﬁed

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Surgical margins free of tumor
Lymph nodes: See specimens L-O. All nodes free of tumor

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: None

AJCC staging:

pT4

pNO

pr

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: _
requested a ﬁ‘ozen section

FSAI: Right anterior muscle, removal
- No armor seen

F 331: Right middle muscle, removal
- No tumor seen

FSCl: Right lateral muscle, removal
- No tumor seen

FSDl: Right posterior mucosal margin, removal
- No tumor seen

FSEl: Right posterior middle margin, removal
- No tumor seen

FSFI: Right anterior mucosal margin, removal
- No tumor seen

FSGI: Right posterior deep margin, removal
— N0 tumor seen

FSHI: Right middle deep margin, removal
- No tumor seen

FSIl: Right anterior deep margin, removal

 

- No tumor seen
Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
The patient is with a right oral cavity cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are eight appropriately labeled containers.

Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section and censists of a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm redftan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block ram,-

Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 1.5 X 1.1 x 0.5 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSBI,

Specimen C is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSCI, -

Specimen D is received ' frozen section and consists of a 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm redftan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSDl ,

Specimen E is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSEI,

Specimen F is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSF1,-

Specimen G is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block FSGl

Specimen H is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment,
submitted in block mm,-

Spccimen 1 is received fresh for frozen section and consists of a 0.6 X 0.4 x 0.4 cm redftan soﬁ tissue fragment,
submitted in bloolt FSI,

Specimen J is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-ﬁlled container, additionally labeled "further anterior
floor of mouth" and he! brofatty piece of tissue that measures 2.0 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm. The specimen was
submitted in to block J1 , .

Specimen K is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-ﬁlled container, additionally labeled "right lateral floor

of mouth" and holds one fibrofatty
piece of tissue that measures 1.5 x 0. 9 x 0.7 cm. The specimen was bisected and submitted in to block K1,

Specimen L is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-ﬁlled container, additionally labeled ”left level one" and
holds one ﬁbrofatty piece of tissue that measures 1.5 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm. The specimen was biSected and submitted in to
block Ll,-

Specimen M is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-filled container, additionally labeled "right level one"

and holds one ﬁbrofatty piece of tissue
that measures 5.0 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. Two lymph nodes are identiﬁed with the largest one measuring 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.50m.

Block Summary:
M1 - Largest lymph node, bisected
M2 - Lymph node #2, bisected

 

M3-M7 - Remainder of associated adipose tissue in specimen, -

Specimen N is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-ﬁlled container, additionally labeled "right level two"

and holds one ﬁbrofatty piece of tissue
that measures 4.0 x 3.3 X 2.5 cm. There is an associated salivary gland within the mass of tissue that measures 3.2 x

3.0 x 1.5 cm. Three candidate lymph nodes are identiﬁed with the largest measuring 1.2 X 0.6 x 0.8 cm.

Block Summary:

Nl — Largest lymph node, bisected

N2 - Lymph node #2, bisected

N3 - Lymph node, not bisected

N4—N6 - Remainder of associated fatty tissue Slinoutiding lymph nodes
N7 — Representative section of salivary gland present

Specimen O is received in an appropriately labeled formalin-ﬁlled container, additionally labeled "right level three"
and holds one ﬁbrofatty piece of tissue that measures 5.0 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm. Six candidate lymph nodes are
identiﬁed with the largest measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm.

Block Summary:

01 - Largest lymph node, bisected

02—04 - One lymph node per cassette, bisected

OS - Two lymph nodes, not bisected

06—018 - Remainder of fatty tissue associated with lymph nodes

Specimen P:

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Right mandible, partial resection

Size of specimen: 5.3 x 4.4 x 1.7 cm

Orientation of specimen: Anterior/yellow, lateral/black, posterior/red, medial/blue.

Tumor description: There is an ulcerative lesion occurring around the third incisor that is displacing the third incisor
in the third incisor is the anterior to lateral direction. The tumor appears ulcerative and tan/gray in
color.

Location of tumor: On the lower alveolus and gingival gum; the tumor does extend down into the mandible.

Tumor size: 2.5 cm x 1.0 cm x 1.3 cm
Extent of tumor: The tumor involves the mandibular bone and the adjacent soft tissue.
Presencefabsence of bone involvement: Yes, the tumor does involve the mandible.

Distance of tumor ﬁ'om surgical margins: Mucosal margins: tumor is 1.6 cm away from the lateraliposterior margin,
1.1 cm away from the lateral/anterior margin, 0.4 cm away from the medial/anterior margin and 2.3 cm away from

the
medial/posterior margin. On cut margins, the tumor is 3 mm to the black ink (lateral margin) and 4 mm to the blue

ink (medial margin).

Description of remainder of tissue: The remaining bone appears tan/yellow in color with no other focal lesions or
masses.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: No

 

Lymph nodes: Not given
Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

hiking: anteriorfyellow, posterior/red, medial/blue and lateral/black
P1 - En face, anterior margin

P2 - En face, posterior margin

P3-P4 - Deepest margin, perpendicular section

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

Signature
Resident Physician:
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the

above diagnosis(es).

 

