UUID: 90F83655-0383-412C-915D-84CC3A4261D4d
TCGA-A7-A312—01A- PR

Final Surgical Pathology Report /(1; (1'5

Procedure: UAIWWVL WWW/”‘17” III’ 5“,“). NJ;
yﬂ. WNo; 0504.95.14;

Diagnosis
A. Sentinel lymph node #1, excision:
Rare isolated cytokeratin positive cells (pNOi+). '9/%/
B. Right breast, resection: / ﬂ
Invasive lobular carcinoma, 2.6 cm, extending to involve the inferior
and lateral margins.

Microscopic Description:
Microscopic examination performed.

A. Sentinel lymph nodes examined at multiple levels section and H&E
staining as well as immunohistochemistry for pan—keratin. No
metastasis is seen on H&E staining. On pancytokeratin stain there are
rare isolated cytokeratin positive cells (pN0i+).

B. The following template applies to the right breast:

Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type: Invasive lobular cancer
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 2
Mitotic score: 1

Greatest dimension (pT): 2.6 cm, pT2

Specimen margins: Positive, invasive cancer extends to the
inferior margin, (green ink) in B1 and B3 and the lateral margin,
(yellow ink) B7

Vessel invasion: Not identified

Calcification: Present

Ductal carcinoma in situ: not identified

Description of non—tumorous breast: Biopsy site changes
Comments: None

Prognostic markers: Previously performed

Specimen
A. Sentinel node #1 —
B. Right breast(single long stitch lateral, double stitch anterior)

Clinical Information
Right breast cancer

Gross Description

A. Container A is labeled with the patient's name, medical record
number and "sentinel node #1". The specimen container holds a single
rubbery tan lymph node measuring 1.2 x l x 0.8 cm. It is bisected and
submitted in blocks A1 and A2.

B. Container B is labeled with the patient's name, medical record
number and "right breast - single long lateral, double stitch
anterior". The specimen is inked as follows blue - anterior; left -
posterior; yellow - lateral; orange - medial; red-tan superior; green —
inferior. The specimen measurements are 8.7 x 7.5 x 5.2 cm in greatest
dimensions. The specimen is serially sectioned. Near the inferior
lateral surgical margin there is a tumor mass which is more palpable
than visible and measures 2.6 x 2.2 x 1.5 cm. Biopsy site changes are
evident. This mass appears to extend close to the inferior margin.
Tissue is obtained for tissue procurement. Representative sections
are submitted in Bl—B14.

Tumov Sit:

Cue Is
Reviewer Initials

 

