TCGA — 66 — 2770

Material examined:

 

Right lower lobe, among others

Ciinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma of right lower lobe, squamous cell carcinoma, status post asbestos exposure (-

).

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed resected lower lobe measuring 18 x 13.5 cm at the base and up to 15 cm high, central
bronchus resection plane located distal to the bifurcation of B6. In the perihilar region some staple suture lines
up to 4 cm long. At the hilus is a 1 cm lesioned grayish-black node. Pleura especially in the lateral and dorsal
regions and — less markedly — in the basal region shows a vaguely pavement-like relief appearance. In segment
8 a moderately ﬁrm, pale brownish tumor, max. 5.4 cm in size, mostly with a rclativelyclear and slightly
arcuate demarcation, extending to within 0.3 cm of the ventral pleura. Truncation of some subsegmental
branches of B8 in the tumor. Questionable invoivement by the tumor of at least one grayish-biack pigmented
node. Rest of the parenchyma shows diffuse intimation and a pale color, in sections reticulate or Streaky whitish
pattern. In the lateral subpieural region at the junction of segments 9/10 is a disk-shaped blackish node 0.5 cm
in Size.

2.) Parietal pleura: plate-like, predominantly whitish tissue measuring 2.1 x 1.5 cm and up to 0.4 cm thick with
partly shiny and partly slightly tubercular surface.

3.) Lobar LN (station 12) middle lobe: 2 cm lesioned node or node part.

4.) Interlohar LN (station 11) right: three grayish-black node parts between 0.2 and 0.5 cm.

5.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 1.2 cm lesioned node or node part with sparse surrounding tissue.

6.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) right: 0.5 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

7.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 1.8 cm lesioned grayish-black node part with some surrounding tissue.

8.) Low paratracheai LN (station 4): two lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts, 1 and 1.2 cm in size.

9.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.1 cm lesioned node or node part with some surrounding tissue.

Examined:

1.) Tumor with remaining parenchyma + pleura, with questionable involvement of nodes, with bronchial
branch, 86 + 810 dorsal, subpieural node (halved), central bronchus resection plane and resection margins of
vessels, hilar nodes,

2.) - 9.) All material (in 2. preparation lameiiated, in 3., 5., 7. — 9. nodes halved in each case),

15 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS, iron staining.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisfdiagnoses:

From intermediate to peripheral bronchOpulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated, large-cell, focally
keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the right lower lobe of the lung located in SS.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pNO pMX V1 R0, stage IB.

C343 M80708.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Focal, temporarily heterogeneous, chronic ﬁbrosing interstitial pneumonia manifest in the mantle zone with
ﬁbrous and focally small honeycomb—like parenchyma remodeling and also focal bronchiolization detected in
86 (sample 1.)). lntrapulmonary, parahronchial and hilar lymph node of the main preparation and the lymph
nodes of samples 3.) - 9.) with uncharacteristic reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits. Hypocellular
ﬁbrosis zone of parietal pleura (sample 2.)).

Remarkfaddendum:

The carcinoma has invaded small to medium—sized blood vessels in the tumor. The visceral pleura, the resection
plane of the bronchi and vessels and all lymph nodes identiﬁed and excised are tumor-free.

N0 asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes, but much 'furthem‘eaching investigations,
especially dust analyses, are needed to determine the asbestos exposure of the lung.

 

