 

BEA-A6467?

  

SPECIMEN
Right colon tissure procurement

CLINICAL NOTES

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right

colon”

CIR

is a previously—unopened 30 cm segment of proximal right
colon with attached 21 cm of distal ileum surfaced by smooth
scabrous tan—pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached
mesentery, mesocolon, and unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable

cm appendix averaging 0.5 cm in diameter is present. The proximal
and distal margins measure 3 and 5.5 cm in circumference,
respectively. On opening, there is a wellwcircumscribed, 5 x 4.4

rubbery white~pink tumor mass involving and extending distal to the
ileocecal valve. A portion is submitted for tissue procurement, as
requested. On sectioning, the tumor is a maximal thickness of 0.6
cm, grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.1 cm of the
inked-free radial surface. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa
is unremarkable glistening tan—pink with regular folds and the

walls

average 0.5 cm in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery
tan—pink to tan—white tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes,
measuring up to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the
attached mesocolon and mesentery. The cut surfaces of the two
largest lymph nodes are tan—white, in keeping with metastasis.
Representative sections are submitted in 17 blocks, a labeled.
RS—l7.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Proximal and distal margin, 2 m tumor
full—thickness to closest inked—free radial serosal surface, 3 and

— additional sections of tumor, including tumor to normal mucosa, 5
— tumor ICE, 6 — random ileum, 7 and 8 h random colon, 9 —

appendix,

10 and 11 H eight whole lymph nodes per cassette, 12 and 13 H seven

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

whole lymph nodes per cassette, l4 and 15 — one bisected lymph node
per cassette, 16 and 17 — representative sections from two largest,
grossly pOSitive lymph nodes (one lymph node represented per

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): Primary tumor extends through muscularis
propria (pT3).
Proximal margin: Uninvolved.
Distal margin: Uninvolved.
Circumferential (radial) margin: Uninvolved.
Vascular invasion: Not identified.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in
five of
thirty lymph nodes, 5/30 (pN2).
Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified.
Distant metastasis (pM}: Cannot be evaluated by the specimen
(pm) .
Other findings: None.

5

DIAGNOSIS

Right colon, resection:
— Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, depth of invasion
through muscularis propria.
— Surgical margins uninvolved.
P Metastatic adenocarcinoma in five of thirty lymph nodes
(5/30).

DIAGNOSIS

 

