page 1 / 1

 

Department of Cancer Pathology _
copy No. 6

Examination: Histopathological examination

 

Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnostic procedure Examination No.: -
Patient: XXX PESEL: XXX Age:. Gender: I

Material: 1. Partial organ resection - rectum and sigmoid colon
2. Total organ resection - appendix
3. Multiple organ resection - oviducts and ovary
4. Total organ resection - left ovary
5. Scrapings - small intestine, mesentery
6. Lesion excision - intestine

Unit in charge:—

Physician in charge: —
Material collected onl- Material received on:-
Expected time of examination:—

Clinical diagnosis: Left oviducts and ovary

Examination performed on:- _

Macroscopic description:
1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intestine with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm

 

found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90% of the intestine circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines
and 8.8 cm from the other.

2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.

3. Left ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.

4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.

5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.

6. Two tissue rings of 2 cm diameter.

Microscopic description:
1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare (G2). lnﬁltratio carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae.

Intensive inﬂammatory inﬁltration around the tumour.
Incision lines free of neoplastic lesions.
Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo (NO l/Xll).

Histopathological Diagnosis:
1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer

metastases in the lymph nodes (No l/Xll). (G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT3, le).

2. Appendicitis chronica. Chronic appendicitis.

3. Corpus luteum haemorrhagicum ovarii. Haemorrhagic corpus luteum of the ovary

4. Metastasis carcinomatosa in ovario: adenocarcinoma tubulare cologenes. Cancer metastases into ovary.
5. Fragment of ﬁbrous tissue with inﬂammatory inﬁltration.

6. Neoplastic lesions not detected.

Compliance validated by: _

CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT

