    

\¢)5.'L‘I’:H-" ‘i-a- (-11. m. r.

  

Pathology Report

 

'2.

our" , w

Accession Number. “ Report Status: Amend/Ad

Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type:
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

CASE: m
PATIENT: m

artial or total resection

  
 
  

“ .cm—cz—asea

A. SPECIMEN LABELED/(EIGHT KIDNEY”:
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, QLEAR CELL TYPE (3. 3 cm) Fuhrman grade 3 (of 4}.
Tumor does not invade through the renal capsule.
Lymphovascular invasion is present.
Vascular and ureteral margins are negative for tumor.
No adrenal gland present.

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

AJCC Classification (6th Edition): T1 NX MX.

The non—neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the
findings will be reported in an addendum.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: None given.

Operation: Right nephrectomy. ’
Clinical Diagnosis: Right renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/I) right kidney.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patients name, unit number,

and "#1 - right kidney", and consists of a 207 gram right nephrectomy,
measuring 11.0 x 6.0 x 3.2 cm, including a single kidney and loosely attached
perirenal adipose tissue. The renal vein measures 0.3 cm in length x 0.4 cm in
diameter, renal artery measures 0.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter, and the
ureter measures 7.5 cm in length x 0.2 cm in diameter. There is a bulging mass
at the anterior surface of the inferior pole of the kidney, measuring 3.3 x 2.5
x 2.3 cm. Sectioning of the mass reveals that it is heterogeneous in
appearance, and is yellow/brown in color and focally hemorrhagic. The mass
abuts the capsule and pelvis, but there is no invasion through these
structures. The renal vein is uninvolved by the tumor. The remainder of the
parenchyma is tan/red with distinct corticomedullary junction. Representative
sections of tumor and normal kidney are submitted to tissue banking. A
representative section of tumor is sent for cytogenetics and
immunofluorescence. Representative sections of normal kidney are sent for
electron microscopy and immunofluorescence analysis.

Micro A1: vascular and uret'eral mar ins, 3 frags, -

Micro A2: quick fix tumor, 1 frag, .

Micro A3+A4= representative sections 0 r with respect to capsule and
inked perirenal fat, 1 frag per cassette,

Micro AS: tumor with respect to hilum, 1 frag, -

Micro A6: tumor and adjacent normal kidney, 1 frag,

Micro A7: tumor with respect to renal calyx, 1 frag

Micro A8: normal kidney, 1 frag,

The adipose tissue surrounding the kidney is thinly sectioned, and no lymph
nodes or adrenal gland are identified.

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen{s} and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)

 

 

pqnp’ 1' nrd

      
 

'v A“. 35: mar; ms-gw -.-_z. r.-

 

”7.. ~5...».,-..n,.-.:r.v::r- P,\",ﬁ‘_'\'b‘s'.”.‘v‘7‘t11 r. 3.9- ».=.« a

related thereto.

ADDENDUM
RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF KIDNEY PARENCHYMA:
RIGHT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

MINIMAL CHRONIC CHANGES OF THE KIDNEY PARENCHYMA, MOST LIKELY AGE—
RELATED {SEE NOTE)

GIVEN THE HISTORY OF PERSISTENT MICROSCOPIC HEMATURIA, ASSESSMENT OF
GLOMERULAR BASEMENT MEMBRANE THICKNESS WILL BE PERFORMED AND REPORTED
IN AN ADDENDUM {SEE NOTE)

NOTE:

The kidney parenchym examined shows minimal chronic changes, within the
expected range for a old woman. There is a mild degree of focal global

glomerulosclerosis (5.1 o glomeruli), minimal tubular atrophy and
interstitial fibrosis (less than 5% of the parenchyma), and a mild to focally
moderate degree of vascular sclerosis.

Electron microscopy will be performed to assess morphometrically the glomerular
basement membrane thickness given the long—standing history of asymptomatic
microscopic hematuria. The findings will be reported in an addendum.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr. _ Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin—fixed, paraffinnembedded tissue (block A8) were evaluated
using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of cortex and medulla. There are 215 glomeruli present, of
which 11 (5.1%} are globally sclerosed. The remaining glomeruli show no
significant expansion of the mesangial areas. There are no discernible craters
or double contours of the glomerular capillary wall basement membranes. Rare
distal tubules contain PAS—positive hyaline casts. Several tubules show cystic
dilatation and most contained pigmented granular material within the lumen.
Less than 5% of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular atrophy and interstitial
fibrosis. Arteries and arterioles exhibit a mild to focally moderate degree of
sclerosis with focal hyaline degeneration.

ADDENDUM (#2) -
RIGHT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

ULTRASTRUCTURAL EVALUATION PERFORMED FOR HISTORY OF PERSISTENT
MICROSCOPIC HEMATURIA REVEALS MARGINALLY THIN GLOMERULAR BASEMENT
MEMBRANES, SUGGESTIVE OF AN INHERITED ABNORMALITY OF BASEMENT MEMBRANE
COLLAGENS (SEE NOTE}

SEE PRIOR ADDENDUM FOR ADDITIONAL FINDINGS

NOTE:
The corrected mean harmonic thickness of the glomerular capillary wall basement
membrane was 251 nm, which is below the lower normal limit of 264 nm -

— Page: 2 0:4

 

        

msnac-Aevﬂ'“

Th as authors estimated the range of normal values from the data of
., as the mean (350 nm} plus and minus two standard deviations
norma t 1c ness values should fall between 264 and 436 nm). Thin glomerular
basement membranes are often a phenotypic expression of an inherited
abnormality in basement membrane collagens, and often manifest as persistent
microscopic hematuria in affected patients and family members. In women, thi
basement membranes can be seen in carriers of the X—linked Alpert syndrome
gene, patients with autosomal recessive hereditary nephritis, and patients wit
so—called benign hematuria or thin glomerular basement membrane disease. In
males, this phenotype can also be seen in early stages of the Alpert syndrome
and, similar to the situation in women, in patients with so-called thin
glomerular basement membrane disease and autosomal recessive hereditary
nephritis. Thin basement membrane disease has been associated with
heterozygous defects in the gene for alpha 4 collagen IV and familial benign
hematuria; persistent hematuria is inherited as a dominant trait, progressive
renal failure is inherited as recessive feature. The prevalence of this
genetic defect in the general population has been reported to be high; the
estimates lie in the 2—9% range. Homozygous defects in alpha 4 or alpha 3
collagen IV have been reported to be associated with autosomal recessive forms
of hereditary nephritis; patients with this type of defect have the Strongest

 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

family history of hematuria, and in general, both parents and all offspring can
be expected to have persistent microecopic hematuria. No features suggestive
of the classic Alport syndrome (splitting, lamination, and thickening of the
glomerular basement membranes) could be identified in this patient.

 

i
ELECTRON MICROSCOPY REPORT H.-
Blocks: 8. Blocks examine : 4 t ick sections; 1 thin section.

The tissue examined at the ultrastructural level contains four glomeruli.
Visceral epithelial cell foot processes are preserved. There is rare
vacuolization of the visceral epithelial cells. No deposits are seen, and
there is no significant mesangial expansion. Some capillaries show erythrocyte
congestion but no substructures are seen in the erythrocyte cytoplasm. The
endothelium is largely unremarkable. The glomerular basement membranes appear
thin; measurement of the basement membrane thickness was performed by the
method of orthogonal intercepts. A total of 94 sites were measured on the
electron micrographs. The corrected mean arithmetic thickness of the
glomerular basement membranes was 241.37 nm, and the corrected mean harmonic
thickness was 250.51 nm. Tubules are well preserved, with some large vacuoles
in the epithelial cells focally. There is a mild degree of arterial and
arteriolar sclerosis with focal hyalinosis.

 

 

am-uﬁ-x-esz-m- 24a urns-7.5; :- 1;

 

u733:'-| "ELTLiLh‘nriﬂ:ﬁw'vv‘iff.‘?d‘:x‘—v.n in .-

Accession Number:” Report Status: F
Type: Cyt enetics

CASE: a“

PATIENT'

Cytogeneticist:

 

KARYOTYPE: 70,xx,de1(3) (run) [1]
METAPHASES COUNTED: l ANALYZED: 1 SCORED: o BANDING: ere
INTERPRETATIOR:

Only 1 metaphase cell was obtained and analyzed from this specimen and
contained a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 3, a characteristic finding
in renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type. This limited/incomplete study may
not rule out mosaicism at a level that is standard for such an analysis.

COMMENTS:

Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the
standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
RCC

 

 

