ICED—013

.. WWW/vas

Sample # ‘ ﬁaﬁ. :% 8 [gym
at: a

Gender: Male 97‘

Race: White

Report Date: 95,) 7/0452/13

uurn:eF4A353c-3292-4c5c-asnc-A6211esnam
Patholo Report: TCGA-FD-ASTG-a1A-PR Redacted
gy |||||||||HlllllllllllllHlIIl llllllllllllllllllllll
fllllllllllllllllll

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter with urothelial carcinoma in situ.

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
— One of four lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/4).
- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 3mm, with extranodal extension.

C. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Two of ten lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (2/10). .
- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 3 mm, with extranodal extension.

D. Urinary bladder, prostate, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:

- Bladder with high grade urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the
muscularis propria and into the perivesical soft tissue, see pathologic
parameters.

- Urothelial carcinoma in situ.

- Prostate with prostatic adenocarcinoma, see pathologic parameters.

E. Right distal ureter, "true margin"; excision:
- Ureter, free of tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (microscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Multifocal, invasive carcinoma at dome, right lateral
wall and posterior wall; in-situ carcinoma at anterior, posterior and lateral
wall.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

8. Lymph nodes: Positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (3/ 14).
9. pTNM: pT3a,N2,MX. '

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

l. Gleason Score: 3+3=6.

2. Perineural Invasion: Absent.

3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - right and left.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 5%.

5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

7. Extraprostatic Extension: Absent.

8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.

9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostate carcinoma
(0/14).

12. pTNM: pT20,N0,MX.

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D.
Electronically Signed Out by [L MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Distal right ureter

B: Right pelvic lymph nodes

C: Left pelvic lymph nodes

D: Bladder, prostate, vas deferens

E: Right distal ureter with stitch on none margin side

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "distal right ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 1.4 cm long segment of
ureter with attached adipose up to 1.5 cm in thickness. The specimen is serially
resection and the ureter is entirely submitted as A1.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5-3.5 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Bl-2: 2 lymph nodes in each cassette
B3-4: One lymph node, sectioned
B5-6: One lymph node, sectioned

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left lymph node

dissection". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 0.5 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm
aggregate of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for
lymph nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-2.5 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Cl : 4 lymph nodes

C2: 2 lymph nodes

C3: One lymph node, bisected
C4-5: One lymph node, bisected
C6-7: One lymph node, sectioned
C8—10: One lymph node, sectioned

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder, prostate, vas
deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an 11.4 x 8.4 x 4.5 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat. The bladder measures
8.4 x 7.0 x 4.4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 1.1 cm and the left 0.7
cm, and both demonstrate patent lumina. The prostate measures 4.4 x 4.1 x 1.9
cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.2 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm and the right vas
deferens 8.8 x 0.4 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 3.4 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm and
the left vas deferens 9.1 x 0.4 cm. The right half of the prostate and bladder

is inked blue and the left half is inked black. The prostate is opened

anteriorly along the urethra and continued superiorly through the bladder in a
Y—shaped incision. The prostate is serially sectioned from apex to base to
reveal yellow-tan parenchyma with multiple nodular white discolorations. The
bladder demonstrates a 3.6 x 2.9 x 1.3 cm slightly raised indurated mass

involving the dome and right posterior/lateral wall. Serial sectioning reveals
tumor invasion into the muscularis propria to a depth of 1.2 cm, extending to
0.4 cm from the inked adipose tissue (not a surgical dissection margin at this
part of bladder). The remainder of the mucosa is tan-brown, edematous, and
glistening with a uniform 1.4 cm wall thickness. The bilateral ureteral oriﬁces
are identified and probe patent. Gross photographs are taken. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

D1: Distal urethral margin

D2: Right ureteral margin

D3: Left ureteral margin

D4: Prostatic apical margin

D5-9: Right half of the prostate

D10-13: Leﬁ half of the prostate (65% of the prostate submitted)

D14: Seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia

D15-l9: Representative sections of the tumor with deepest invasion, all
full—thickness sections

D20: Uninvolved anterior wall

D21: Uninvolved posterior wall

D22: Uninvolved left wall

D 23: Uninvolved trigone

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right distal ureter with
stitch on non-margin". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.5 cm long
segment of ureter with attached adipose tissue. A stitch is present at one end
designating the non-margin site. The specimen is serially sectioned and the
margin is submitted as E1. .

7n "

re E-screyancv

 

 

