1.“va UL—r

 

DIAGNOSIS:

2. UTERUS, LEFT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE (HYSTERECTOMY, LEFT

SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY):

—Left ovarian serous papillary adenocarcinoma, high grade
-Tumor size: 15 cm, solid and cystic, replacing entire ovary
—Multiple lymphovascular tumor emboli in exocervical and

endocervical wall, myometrium, fallopian tube, and
paraovarian/paratubal tissue

—Ovarian tumor penetrates serosa and directly invades into
adherent outer myometrium

Additional Findings:

—Proliferative endometrium

—Mild chronic cervicitis

—Fooa1 endocervical squamous metaplasia, microglandular
hyperplasia, and nabothian cysts

—Left fallopian tube with foci of intravascular papillary
endothelial hyperplasia

—Serosal adhesions

1. RIGHT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE (RIGHT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY}:
~Right ovary with:
—Metastatic adenocarcinoma, predominantly numerous lympho—
vascular tumor emboli
—Benign organizing hemorrhagic functional cyst (1.9 cm)
—Benign simple cyst (5.5 cm) lined by a single layer of
flattened epithelial cells
-Serosal adhesions
mFallopian tube with multiple paratubal and mural lympho-
vascular tumor emboli
—Paratubal Walthard rest
—Paraovarian tissue with multiple lymphovascular tumor emboli

3&8. OMENTUM (RESECTION AND BIOPSY):
—Few detached, free—floating clusters of tumor cells (B—E,
omentum #2—#S}
—Three small omental lymph nodes (C,D,F, omentum #3,#4, and
omental biopsy) with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/3)
—Focal benign epithelial inclusion (A, omentum #1)
—Adhesions, mesothelial hyperplasia, mild chronic inflammation,
and focal fibrinous exudate

9. APPENDIX {APPENDECTOMY}:
—Multiple serosal and focal mural lymphovascular tumor emboli
—Serosal fibrinous exudate containing focal clusters of tumor
cells

 

 

LHEULUL'T

—Appendiceal tip with mucosal acute inflammation and associated
granulation tissue, fibroblastic proliferation, and reactive
epithelial changes consistent with early/subacute appendicitis

10. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
—Four out of five lymph nodes positive for metastatic
adenocarcinoma (4/5)
nPerinodal lymphovascular invasion

11. RIGHT OBTURATOR LYMPH NODES {EXCISION):
—Ten out of eleven lymph nodes positive for metastatic
adenocarcinoma (10/11)
—Perinodal lymphovascular invasion

HISTORY: Ovarian tumor

MICROSCOPIC: I
See DiagnOSis.

GROSS:

1. RIGHT OVARIAN MASS

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in the fresh state in the
Operating Room for intraoperative gross and frozen consultations
and subsequently fixed in formalin is an 8 x 4 x 4 cm, 70 gram
grossly recognizable ovary. There is an attached 8 cm long and
1.5 cm in diameter of fallopian tube with fimbriated distal end.
The ovary is significantly enlarged with a 5.5 x 4 x 3.5 cm cyst
which is lined by smooth inner surface. Hemorrhagic fibrous
adhesions are present on the serosal surface of ovarian tissue. The
frozen section remainder measures 2.8 x 1.7 x 0.3 cm.
Representative sections.

: Frozen section remainder - 1

. Proximal, middle, and distal right fallopian tube - 3

,8: Right ovary — 1 each

,U: Right ovarian cystic wall - 3 each

,V: Right ovarian cyst and adjacent tissue — 1 each

< 8 WIO W

1—:

2. UTERUS AND LEFT OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, received fresh in the Operating Room for
frozen section diagnosis and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a
uterus with attached left ovary which weighs 1150 grams. The
uterine corpus is symmetric, measuring 10 cm superior to inferior,

8 cm oornu to cornu, and 5 cm anterior to posterior. The across is
pink with adhesions on the left cornu and the posterior uterine wall
densely adherent to the left ovarian tumor. The cervix has a length
of 4 cm and a diameter of 3.5 cm. There is a 1 cm slit—like patent
os. The endocervical canal is 5 cm in length and is tan and

rugose. The endometrial cavity is 5 cm in length, 2 cm in width,
and is lined by a soft tan—red, hyperemic endometrium with a
thickness of 0.2 cm. The endometrium is grossly unremarkable. The
myometrium is 2.5 cm in maximum thickness. The myometrium is
otherwise grossly unremarkable. The left ovary measures 14 x 13 x
15 cm and grossly replaced by tumor tissue. The serosal surface is
tan—red with hemorrhagic and fibrous adhesions. Solid bulging areas
and cystic areas are present. The left fallopian tube is stretched,
difficult to identify and adherent to the ovarian tumor. Serial
sections through the left ovary show solid and cystic tumor tissue
replacing the ovarian tissue. Cut surface of the tumor tissue is
ten solid with nodular and papillary appearance. Necrosis is
present with no evidence of hemorrhage. Multiple cysts are present
ranging from 3 to 6 cm in greatest dimensions. Foci of papillary
cystic lining are present. Frozen section remainder measures 2.2 x
1.5 x 0.3 cm in greatest dimensions. Representative sections.

 

lGEUJULH'

X: Frozen section remnant — 1
Y: Anterior cervix — 1

Z: Anterior uterine wall — 1
AA: Posterior cervix — 1

BB: Posterior uterine wall — l

CC,DD: Solid portion of left ovarian tumor - 1 each

EE,FF: Cystic wall with papillary projection — 1 each

GG: Smooth cystic wall — 3

HH—JJ: Tumor and the serosal surface — 1 each

ADDITIONAL SECTIONS:

KK,LL: Possible left fallopian tube — 2 each

MM: Left ovarian tumor and fundus - 1

NN,OO: Left ovarian tumor and posterior uterine wall — 1 each

3. OMENTUM NUMBER 1

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft tan—
red piece of omentum tissue measuring 5.5 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm in greatest
dimensions. Representative sections.

A. 2

4. OMENTUM NUMBER 2

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft tan—red
piece of omentum tissue measuring 9 x 5 x 0.6 cm in greatest
dimensions. Representative sections.

8. 4

5. OMENTUM NUMBER 3

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft tan—red
piece of omentum tissue measuring 8 x 7 x 0.6 cm in greatest
dimensions. Representative sections.

C. 5

6. OMENTUM NUMBER 4

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft pink-
tan flat piece of omentum tissue measuring 12.5 x 3 x 0.6 cm in
greatest dimensions. Representative sections.

D. 4

7. OMENTUM NUMBER 5

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft pink—
tan flat piece of omentum tissue measuring 4 x 3.5 x 0.6 cm in
greatest dimensions. Representative sections.

E. 4

8. OMENTAL BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a soft tan 0.?
x 0.6 x 0.5 cm irregular portion of tissue. Entirely submitted.

F. 1

9. APPENDIX

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form and received in formalin, is a vermiform
appendix, 6.5 cm long and 1.0 cm in maximum diameter with attached
fat up to 1.0 cm in width and 0.5 cm in thickness. There are no
apparent gross abnormalities. Representative sections.

G. Proximal, middle and distal appendix — 3

10. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name and labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, received fresh in the Operating Room for

 

LMEU—rUl-T

frozen section diagnosis and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a
piece of fibroconnective tissue containing two enlarged lymph nodes
measuring 2.5 and 4.5 cm in greatest dimensions. Grossly, both lymph
nodes are replaced by tumor tissue. The frozen section remnant
measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm in greatest dimensions. Representative
sections.

H. Frozen section remnant — 1

I. Larger lymph node — 2

J. Smaller lymph nodes - 1

ll. RIGHT OBTURATOR LYMPH MODES

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin, are four soft
tan—red irregular pieces of soft tissue fragments ranging from 1.1 to
4.7 cm in greatest dimensions. Ten lymph nodes were dissected from
adipose tissue, ranging from 0.9 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimensions.
Representative sections.

K,L. Lymph nodes — 3 each

Lymph nodes - 2

One lymph node, bisected — 2

. One lymph node, bisected — 2

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
1: Right ovarian mass:
—Simple cyst with surrounding edematous ovarian stroma
Left ovary:

Right ovarian mass:
—Carcinoma, predominantly within vascular spaces
2: Left ovary.
~Poorly differentiated carcinoma
10: Left pelvic lymph node:

“to carcinoma, poorly differentiated

0.22%

 

 

  

 

 

