 

 

 

DIAGNOSES:
Kidney, ieﬁ, nephreciomy:

A

I

pouoagnpr—t

9-

Tumor Characteristics:

Histobgic type: Clear veil (conventiona!) renal cell admrcz‘nmna.
Tumor site: Upper pole.

Tumor size: 4.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm.

Macroscapic eﬁent 0% mm: Tumor limited to kitiney.

Nuclear made: Fuhrman grade: 214.

Lmnphovascular space invasion: Present

Transcapsuiar invasion: Na.

Renal vein invasion: No.

Venacaval invasion: Not receded.

10.Adr&nal gland: mm resemed.

 

Surgicai Margin Status:

Soﬁﬁssue margins: Negaiive.

Uretaraimargin: Nwaﬁve-

Vascular Margins: Negative.
Lymph Node Status:

Toial numbefoi iymph nudes examined: 0
other Signiﬁcant Findings:

pTNM stage: T121 NX MX

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Fmtﬁngs:

SPECIMENS:
Lei! kidney

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68053 DESCREF‘TiOM:

The specimen is received in one container lebelerl l l and left kidney and consists of a preﬁously bisected money with attached psrinephr'm {at
measuring 25.0 x 15.0 x 7.5 cm and weighs 938 grams. There is no adrenal gland attached to the specimen. The ureter stump is identiﬁed measuring
8.0 cm in length and 9.4 cm in diameter. The surlace is gray to broom-tan with slight adhesiors. On opening the mmosal surface lining the ureter is
gray—tan. There are no lesions seen grossly. The renal artery stump is identiﬁed measuring 2.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter anti contains
clotted blood, but is otherness unremarkable. The renal vein some: measures 0.7 cm in length and 65 em in diameter and is grossly unremarkable-
The deep margin of the kidney has been inked. The cut surface of the kidney is browMan and reveals a cirmlmssrroed gdden yellow paniaily
hemorrhagic mass within the upper pole measuring 4.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 om that on sectioning comes to within 0.1 cm of the inked deep margin, but does not
appear to penetrate through the capsule into the surrounding perinephric fat. The surrounding renal cortex is brown—tan measuring 0.5 cm and shows a
well demarcated cons): and renal pyramids- The renal pelvis and calices are gray-tan and uninvolved by the mass and appear grosst unremarkable.
There are no oﬂter lesions seen grossly. 0n sectioning through the summing perinephric fat reveals there are no lymph nodes grossly identiﬁed.

Representative sections were taken tor gen ' plewd in orange cassettes labeled A—D- Also received with the specimen are two
cassettes, one green and one yellow, label Representative sections are remained in cassetres as follows: sections
trom mass in relationship to inked deep mar , r' sections from mass and snrroureling kidney—4 and 5; sections irom surrounding
unimmmﬂrmmm mums.-. .._. . ... . .. ..;__. .-.. _-._-a - _. . ,-,

 

 

