.agnosis:
5: Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy ‘
s Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated. with focal papillary architecture, 4.5 cm diameter, morphologically

similar to previous uterine papillary serous carcinoma, bronchial margin not involved, pleural margin focally
involved (see light microscopy)

B: Lymph node, Station 7, biopsy
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1)

C: Lymph node, R9, biopsy
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/4}

D: Lymph node, R10, biopsy
w No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2)

Comment:
None

Intraoperative Consultation:
A frozen section is requested by Dr

F331: Right upper lobe, lohectomy, bronchial margin
~ No in situ or invasive carcinoma identified
Clinical History:

The patient is with non—small cell lung carcinoma of the right upper lobe.

Gross Description:
Received are four appropriately containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe." Within is a plastic yellow biopsy cassette labeled FSAl.
Also within is the lobectomy specimen.

ecimen fixation: formalin
Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobe partial lobectomy
Size of specimen: 13 x 12 x 4.5 cm
Weight of specimen: 220 grams
Other attached structures: none
Tumor size: 4.5 x 4.1 x 3.5 cm
Tumor description: ovoid, circumscribed, tan and solid with central softening
Relationship of tumor to bronchus: directly involving a medium sized bronchus
Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 9 mm

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: the tumor grossly comes to within 1 mm of the visceral pleural surface
but not directly involving it (the overlying pleura is pink/purple and smooth)

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: a 9 cm linear stapled margin of resection runs parallel to the
longitudinal axis of the ovoid tumor: the tumors closest approximation to this stapled margin
is approximately 1 cm

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent
Description of nontumorous lung: unremarkable pulmonary parenchyma
Block Summary:

A1,A2 — tumors relationship to bronchus
A3,A4 ~ tumors relationship to pleura
'9 - tumor
— tumor at area of central softening
n! — tumor/normal parenchymal interface
A8 - representative sections of normal parenchyma
A9 — en face section of previously inked hilum

Container 3 is additionally labeled "station 7." Within are two brown/black soft

 

tissue fragments measuring 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. (—)

Container C is additionally labeled "R9." It holds a 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm tan/gray soft tiSsue specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted in block Cl.

:ntainer D is additionally labeled "R10 lymph node." within is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm tan/gray soft tissue
specimen which is bisected and entirely submitted in block 01

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.
(Specimen A)

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification): adenocarcinoma, with focal papillary
features

Tumor histologic grade {WHO classification): poorly differentiated

Tumor size {greatest dimension): 4.5 cm diameter

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: bronchial margin not involved
Pleural involvement: focally (+1 (block A3)

In situ carcinoma: no definite in situ carcinoma identified

Invasion:

angiolymphatic — present (small vein)

perineural ~ not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group): no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/? total)

 

