 

    

vuuwvn- .. n . . .OLOGY REPGRT

. ‘ SEEKENOSESL

  

DiAGNOSlS:
A. Deep margin, left renal mass, biopsy with frozen section:
Benign renal parenchyma; negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis sentiment.

on

. Left renal mass, partial nephrectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, solid variant.
. Tumor site: Left kidney.
. Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 2.5 x 22 x 2.0 cm.
Macroscopic/microscopic extent of tumor: Tumor is conﬁned to kidney.
. Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 24.
. Lymphovascular space invasion: No.
. Sarcomatoid features: No.
Surgical Margin status:
. Resection margins are tree of carcinoma.
However, one focus of tumor extends into, but not through the capsule and is wﬁhin 0.5 mm of an inked margin.
Lymph Node Status:
Not applicable.
, Other: '
1. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Non-neoplastic renal tissue with no pathologic ﬁndings.
2. pTNM stage: T1 a Nx Nix.

mummprA

.z

 

COMMENTS:
The neoplasm consists of mostly a solid pattern with focal papillary architecture at the periphery, and also contains a proliferation of foamy histiocytes
within the tumor. Rare psammoma eddies are seen Within the tumor. These features are most consistent with a solid variant of capillary renal cell

carcinoma.

For " " " ~\\..
' ' CLINICAL lNFORMATlO

 

CLlNlCAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Renal and ureteral disease NOS
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radioioglo Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A Deep margin, left renal mass
B. Deep renal mass

 

seeriiliienegifsag; _

 

eaoss DESCRlP'ﬂON: ' . . ,
A. The container is received labeled eep margin left renal mass. The specimen consists of a piece of gray—tan to yellow-tan soft
tissue, 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen was examined at the time of surgery and the frozen section is subsequently entirely submitted in a single

cassette labele ‘ ' !

 

B. The container is received labeled :, left renal mass. The specimen consists of a wedge section of kidney measuring 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.2 cm.
The soft tissue margin is inked. On Wiring, mere is a member: giay-ian mass measuring 2.5 x 2.2 x 2.0 cm, that comes within 0.1 cm of the
inked soft tissue margin. Received with the specimen are two cassettes, one green and one yellow, labeled - with the yellow additionally
labeled —1 5 and the green adrlitionr-iiiéir labeled 4?. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes, ‘

 

 

 
 

