UUID'TBCSECDC-33EB-42M-ADBB-11185Mﬁ3e309ac
TCGA- DK- M75-91A-PR

III lIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIHIIIIIIMI IIIIIIIIIIMIWIIIIHR eIlIlIIchIeul
IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII lIIIIIII
IIIIHH I||I|||||l|I|||||| HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII| IIIIII II||||I||I

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:
Med_ Rec. #: Date of Procedure:
DOB: (Age Location: Date of Receipt:
Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:
Ref. Physician: Account #:
Patient Address: Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:
Muscle invasive TCC.

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles. peri- vesicle node; radical prostatectomy
2: Ureter, left distal; excision

3: Ureter. right distal; excision

4: Ureter, right distal, #2: excision

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, peri- vesicle node; radical prostatectomy:
a.
Tumor Type:
Urothelial carcinoma with mixed histologic features, including: predominantely micropapillary with focal NOS
components ./ / -
Histologic Grade: low 4’55, ‘/ (1 5A W ' M W
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:
Papillary and ﬂat

with focal micropapillary features [Cw '0 3
Pattern of growth of the Invasive component: & \j <"
Inﬁltrating ( @MLWVA) umtﬂ<étag I 0")

Tumor Multicentricity:

CV90 I 5
Identiﬁed £1
In situ carcinoma is also multifocai and extensive Cw . , ’
Bladder Local invasion: Ugjbi/J L/ (if d m t/MIZM LI}. [L961— »

Perivesicai soft tissues 0 [97 ‘5
Perivesicai involvement is extensive
Extravesical Tumor Extension: 5 }
Ureters uninvolved g, )4 5 4/60 I L}
Urethra uninvolved

Right ureteral oriﬁce involved by in situ carcinoma
Vascular Invasion:

Identiﬁed

Lymphovascular invasion is extensive
Perlneural Invasion:

Identiﬁed
Surgical Margins:

Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Unremarkabie
Prostate:
Other Please see part b
Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved
Perivesicai Lymph Nodes:

 

Page 1 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Metastatic carcinoma present in 4/6 nodes
Extracapsular extension is present

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Tumor Type:
Adenocarcincma

Gleason's Grade:
Primary Gleason grade13
Secondary Gleason gradez4
Total Gleason score:7

Tumor Location:

Involves Right anterior

The focus of carcinoma is minute
Vascular Invasion:

Not Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identifed

High Grade Prostatic lntraepithelial Neoplasia:
Identiﬁed
Capsule:
Tumor conﬁned to prostate
Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Prostate:
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2a (confined to the prostate & capsule, involving one lobe)

 

2. Ureter, left distal; excision:
- Benign segment of ureter

3. Ureter, right distal; excision:
- Benign segment of ureter

4. Ureter, right distal, #2; excision:
- Benign segment of ureter

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

 

Page 2 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Gross Description:

1) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, pen-vesicles node". It consists of a cystectomy
specimen measuring 12.0 cm from superior to inferior, 10.0 cm laterally and 6.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The bladder
measures 8.0 x 8.0 x 4.0 cm, the prostate measures 4.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm, the right seminal vesicle measures 4.5 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm, the
right vas deferens measures 8.0 cm in length x 0.2 cm in diameter, the left seminal vesicle measures 4.5 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm, and the
left vas deferens measures 7.8 cm in length x 0.2 cm in diameter. The anterior aspect of the bladder is inked blue and the
posterior black. The prostatic urethral margin is shaved and submitted. The bladder is opened along the anterior midline to reveal
a white-tan papillary mass measuring 4.5 x 4.0 cm which is grossly involving the left and right anterior wall and grossly appears to
extend to the dome. The mass lies 5.5 cm from the left ureteral oriﬁce and 5.3 cm from the right ureteral oriﬁce. Both ureters are
probed patent measuring up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is sectioned to reveal a white ﬁrm cut surface and
extending to a depth of 4.2 cm. The mass is 0.2 cm from the inked fat. There is a scar noted on the left posterior wall measuring
1.5 x 0.3 cm, located 3.0 cm from the left ureteral oriﬁce and 4.5 cm from the right ureteral oriﬁce. In addition, there is a white—tan
ﬁrm scarred area noted on the right posterior wall measuring 0.5 x 0.3 cm, located 3.5 cm from the left ureteral oriﬁce and 1.5 cm
from the right ureteral oriﬁce. The posterior bladder mucosa is red-brown, congested with ill-deﬁned areas of nodularity. Discrete
perivesical lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed. The prostate is serially sectioned to reveal a diffuse ﬁrm parenchyma with a
white-tan whorled appearance. There are several white nodules noted ranging from 0.2 to 0.6 cm in diameter and multiple cysts

ranging from 0.1 to 0.2 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted including three sections from each prostatic
quadrant and transition zone. TPS is submitted.

Summary of sections:

UM - urethral margin

RUM - right ureter margin

LUM - left ureter margin

RUO — right ureter oriﬁce

LUO - left ureter oriﬁce

AWL1-2 — full face section of anterior wall lesion with deepest invasion
WM — full face section of anterior wall lesion with deepest invasion, whole mount
LPL — left posterior wall lesion

RPL - right posterior wall lesion

LPW - left posterior wall

LAW — left anterior wall

RPW - right posterior wall

RAW - right anterior wall

TRl - trigone

DOM - dome

APWS -— additional sections of posterior wall
F — peri-vesical fat

RSV - right seminal vesicle

LSV - left seminal vesicle

RAP - right apex prostate

LAP - left apex prostate

RAM ~ right anterior mid prostate

RPM - right posterior mid prostate

LAM - left anterior mid prostate

LPM - left posterior mid prostate

RAB - right anterior base prostate

RPB - right posterior base prostate

LAB - left anterior base prostate

LPB - left posterior base prostate

LN - whole lymph nodes

BLN - bisected lymph nodes (one lymph node per cassette)
TLN - trisected lymph node

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

2) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled, “Left distal ureter, clip is on proximal margin", and consists of a tan tubular piece
of tissue measuring 3.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter with surrounding yellow fatty tissue averaging 0.5 cm in thickness. There

is an attached clip on the proximal margin. The proximal margin is inked red and the distal margin is inked black. The tissue is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

E — ends (red-proximal margin; black-distal margin)
M - middle

3) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled, “Right distal ureter, clip is on proximal margin", and consists of a tan tubular piece
of tissue measuring 1.2 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter with surrounding yellow fatty tissue averaging 0.5 cm in thickness. There

is an attached clip on the proximal margin. The proximal margin is inked red and the distal margin is inked black. The tissue is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
E — ends (red-proximal margin; black-distal margin)
M — middle

4) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled, “Right distal ureter #2, clip is on high proximal margin”, and consists of a tan
tubular piece of tissue measuring 1.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter with surrounding yellow fatty tissue averaging 0.3 cm in
thickness. There is an attached clip on the high proximal margin. The high proximal margin is inked red and the distal margin is
inked black. The tissue is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
E — ends (red-high proximal margin; black-distal margin)
M — middle

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, peri- vesicle node; radical prostatectomy

Blocks Block Designation PCs
APWS
AWL1
AWL2
BLN
DOM

AAMNAANNAAAAAmNAAaNNANwmmw
I‘l—
'c'o
i‘UJ
—‘ANN—itANNN-A—A-‘AOINN—h-KNNNNQODODW

 

Page 4 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

RSV
RUM
RUO
TLN
TRI
UM
WM

Part 2: Ureter, left distal; excision

.s_x_s_x.;_\_s
AA—AQMAA

Blocks Block Designation P03
1 E 2
2 M 8

Part 3: Ureter, right distal; excision

Blocks Block Designation P05
1 E 2
1 M 2

Part 4: Ureter, right distal, #2; excision

Blocks Block Designation P03
1 E 2
1 M 3

Page 5 of 5

HIPAA

Prior

Previewer

 

END OF REPORT

