 

HISTORY:

— with biopsy confirmed squamous cell carcinoma in the left

retromolar trigone. Operative Procedure: Left - resection left retromolar
trigone.

GROSS:

l. "Posterior lateral tongue." Received fresh for frozen section analysis is a
1.2 cm fragment of mucosa. All tissues frozen.

IR. Frozen section control.-

2. "Anterior lateral tongue.‘ Received fresh for frozen section analysis are
three tissue fragments, largest 1.3 cm. all tissues submitted for frozen
section.

235.. Frozen section control. -

3. 'Mucosa adjacent to first molar.‘ Received fresh for frozen section
analysis are two 0.3 cm mucosal fragments. All tissues submitted for frozen
section.

3A“ Frozen section control.

4- "Anterior floor of mouth.‘ Received fresh for frozen section analysis are
two 0.6 cm mucosal fragments. All tissues submitted for frozen section.

is. Frozen section control.

5. "Tongue hase.’ Received fresh for frozen section analysis is a 1 cm
fragment of mucosa. All tissues submitted for frozen section.

5a. Frozen section control.

6. 'Retromolar trigone.' Received fresh for frozen section analysis is a 0.3
cm fragment of mucosa. All tissues submitted for frozen section analysis.

 

    
 

?. 'Buccal mucosa." Receive- -resh for frozen section analysis is a 1.5 cm
fragment of mucosa. All tissues submitted for frozen section-

TA. Frozen section control.

8. "Deep margin.’ Received fresh for frozen section analysis are two 0.2 cm
tissue fragments. All tissues submitted for frozen section.

8A. Frozen section control. !

9. ‘Soft palate.‘ Received fres for frozen section analysis are 2 fragments
measuring 1.2 and 0-? cmr All tissues submitted for frozen Section.

9A. Frozen section control.-

10. 'Left retromolar trigone with tonsil.‘ Received unoriented in a small
container of formalin are two portions of tissue. The larger measures 3.3 x 3
x 1.7 cm. The smaller measures 1.é x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The larger portion consists
of soft tissue including mucosa and tonsillar tissue. Within the tissue is an
ulcerated lesion measuring 2.2 x 1.5 x 1 cm. The lesion reaches the anterior
soft tissue and mucosal edge and focally reaches the superior mucosal soft
tissue edge. The lesion is within 2 mm of the inferior soft tissue edge and
posterior soft tissue edge. Lesion is also within 2 mm of the deep {lateralJ
soft tissue edge. The tumor is semi firm and white and well—demarcated. The
soft tissue edges are inked green. Representative sections are submitted.
Photographs are taken.

10A. Sample of superior edge.

lﬂﬁ—C. Sample of tumor showin rior deep and posterior edges. {lss each]
1013. Sample of inferior edgeﬁ

11. 'Left neck section Level E.‘ Received in formalin in,a small container is
a T.2 x 5.6 x 2.8 cm portion of yellow fibroadipose tissue. A 4.2 x 2.2 cm
submandihular gland is identified. Multiple polyps and lymph nodes are
identified, ranging up to 1.5 cm.

11A. Submanditular gland. -

 

 

 

 

  

llB. Multiple possible lymph nodes.
llC-F- Une bisected lymph node each
12. 'Left neck section Level II. Received in formalin in a small container is
a 9. 2 x.5. 3 x 3. 2 cm irregular portion of pink— yellow fibroadipose tissue.
lultiple possible lymph nodes are identified ranging up to 2- 2 cm in greatest
dimension. Cut surface of the largest lymph node is grayiwhite. and granular.
12A. Multiple possible lymph nodes. -

123. One bisected lymph node.
12:. One trisected lymph node
12D. One bisected lymph node.
12E. Largest lymph node.

13. 'Left neck dissection Level III.' Received in formalin in a small
container is a 4.5 x 3.6 x 1.8 cm irregular portion of pink—yellow
fibroadipose tissue. multiple possible lymph nodes are identified ranging up
to 1-1 cm.

133. Multiple possible lymph nodes.

14. 'Left neck dissection Level IV." Received in formalin in a small container
is a 4.2 x 2.3 x 1.3 cm aggregate of yellow fibroadipose tissue. Multiple
possible lymph nodes are identifiedr ran ing up to 0.6 cm.

14A. Multiple possible lymph nodesiFat retained.

 

FROZ EN SECTION REPORT

1—9] Negative for neoplasm—

"1!! have reviewed and interpreted the frozen section
material at the ime i requested.

Permanent sections confirm frozen section report-

M ICROSCOPI C DIAGNOS I S :
1-9. Intraoperative margins. please see above for sites. excision: Negative

 

for carcinoma.

10. Left retromolar trigone and tonsil, resection: Invasive moderately
differentiated squamous cell carcinoma [2.2 cm]. Please see template.

11. Lymph nodes. left neck level I. dissection: Seven lymph nodes negative for
malignancy. Unremarkable salivary gland.

12. Lymph nodesr left neck level II. dissection: Metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma involving one of seven lymph nodes [1f2i. No extranodal extension.

13. Lymph nodes, left neck level III. dissection: Seven lymph nodes negative
for malignancy.

14. Lymph nodes. left neck level IV. dissection: Nine lymph nodes negative for
malignancy.

I. H— the signing staff pathologist. have
persona y examine and interpreted the slides from this case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

