 

DIAGNOSIS:

‘I. “Left kidney tumor” (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furhman nuclear grade II.

2. “Cyst wall" (excision): Cystic kidney lesion with denudation of the lining and ﬁbrosis of the wall.

3. “Base of cyst" (excision): Cystic kidney lesion with denudation of the lining and ﬁbrosis of the wall.
NOTE:
CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical History: VHL patient with left solid renal mass

Requester Name proano Specimen Taken
For Protocol:. - Yes Allocate r er to rotoco:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: left renal mass Post-Operative Diagnosis: left
renal masses Pre-Operative Diagnosis: Left renal masses

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. TUMOR, Left kidney
2. CYST, Wall
3. CYST, Base

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are three formalin—ﬁlled containers labeled with the patient's name.
medical record number, and further described as follows:

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

1. “Left kidney tumor”. The specimen consists of a red/brown nodule of tissue measuring 2.4 x 2.6 x 1.8 cm,
with a small thin piece of brown tissue attached measuring 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm. Bisection reveals a

 

heterogeneous yellow and red mottled cut surface. 50% of the nodule is procured for and the
remaining is sent to Surgical Pathology. The procurement was done by _ on In
Surgical Pathology, the specimen received matches the above description. The specimen is serially
sectioned and representative sections submitted in white cassettes labeled . 1B for

permanent processing.

2. "Cyst wall". The specimen consists of a flat sheet of pink/tan tissue measuring 6.6 x 2.2 x 0.1 cm. A

piece of tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm is procured for and remaining is sent to Surgical
Pathology. Procurement was done by n Surgical Pathology, the specimen
received matches the above description. e_ specumen IS seria y sectioned and representative sections
are submitted in white cassette labeled ‘ ._ “tr permanent processing.

3. “Base of cyst". The specimen consists of a ﬂat thin piece of tissue measuring 3 x 2.4 cm to a thickness of
less than 1 cm. The specimen has two holes in the center with ﬁbrous tissue attached. The specimen is
sectioned and representative sections are submitted in white cassette labeled ‘I for
permanent process.

No consultants

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation i

 

Page 2 of 2

