SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right post central tumor consistent with glioma: OLIGOASTROCYTOMA
WITH FOCAL ANAPLASTIC CHANGES. SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. SEE
COMMENT.

2. SPECIMEN NOT RECEIVED: SPECIMEN DESIGNATED #2 NOT RECEIVED IN
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

3. Right post central tumor consistent with glioma: OLIGOASTROCYTOMA
WITH FOCAL ANAPLASTIC CHANGES. SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. SEE
COMMENT.

Comment:

This oligoastrocytoma has small areas of increased cellularity,
increase pleomorphism and increased mitotic rate. The Ki67
proliferation index in these small areas of both specimen #1 and #3
approach 15%. Additionally, a small focus of endothelial proliferation
is identified on the actual frozen tissue section slides of specimen #1
but this endothelial proliferation area is not present on the permanent
sections. While the major portions of both specimens #1 and #3 display
WHO grade II features, the identification of the small foci of

anaplasia and elevated Ki67 proliferation indices suggest that this
oligoastrocytoma will behave as an anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, WHO
grade III. Clinical correlation recommended.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Microscopic Description:

Specimen #1 is composed primarily of neoplastic fibrillary astrocytes.
A small focus of endothelial proliferation is identified on the actual
frozen section slides. The Ki67 proliferation index and mitotic rate

is low in the major portion of specimen #1. A very small focus of
increase cellularity is however present on the permanent sections of
specimen #1. In this small focus of increase cellularity of specimen
#1, the Ki67 proliferation index approaches 15%. Specimen #3 shows

areas of oligodendroglial differentiation. Microcalcifications are
identified in areas of tumor is specimen #3. Small foci of increased
cellularity, increased cellular pleomorphism and increased mitotic
activity are identified in specimen #3. The Ki67 proliferation index

in these areas of increased cellularity and pleomorphism in specimen #3
approaches 15%.

This tumor is an oligoastrocytoma. While the major portions of both
specimens #1 and #3 display WHO grade II features, the identification
of the small foci of anaplasia and elevated Ki67 proliferation indices

in both specimens suggest that this oligoastrocytoma will behave as an
anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, WHO grade III. Clinical correlation
recommended.

A separate report with the results of FISH analysis of 1p19q status of
the tumor will be issued.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:

1. Right post central tumor consistent with glioma: Astrocytic
neoilasm with high grade features. Frozen section diagnosis by.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

Right brain mass

Source of Specimen:

1: Right post central tumor consistent with glioma
2: SPECIMEN NOT RECEIVED

3: Right post central tumor consistent with glioma

Gross Descri tion:
H]
. Ig tpost centra tumor consistent wnt gIoma: ecered fresh

for frozen section in a specimen container labeled with the patient's
name and "right post central tumor consistent with glioma" is a 1 x 0.8
x 0.3 cm aggregate of tan-pink soft tissue. Approximately 80% of the
specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation and the entire
specimen is submitted in 2 cassettes the permanent sections. Touch
preps are prepared.

Designations

A. FSC
B. Remainder of specimen

3. Right post central tumor consistent with glioma: Received in
formalin in a specimen container labeled with the patient's name and
"right post central tumor consistent with glioma" are 3 fragments of

tan-pink soft tissue that measure 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. The
entire specimen is submitted in one cassette.

Histology Laboratory
Part 3: Right post central tumor consistent with glioma

lmmunohistochemistry Notes
1. Quantification of immunohistochemistry assay for ER and PR studies

is bi the method o_ Applied lmmunohistochemistry,

2. Hercept Test (DakoCytomation) Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.

lnteriretation follows the manufacturer' s recommendation.

EGFR pharme F Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.
Interpretation followst e manu acturer' s recommendation.

Doucmented b

 

 
   

3. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent
(ASR).

These tests were developed and their erformance characteristics
determined by the Clinical Laboratory of—
ey ave not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.

The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.

MEDICAL GENETICS REPORT

EVALUATION:

ASSAY PERFORMED: deI(1p)deI(19q) BY FLUORESCENT IN-SITU HYBRIDIZATION
(FISH)

RESULT: Negative for the deletion of 1p
Negative for the deletion of 19q

1p36/1q24

Number of Nuclei scored: 300
Ratio of 1p/1q: 0.93

% cells with del 1p: 27%

19q13/19p13

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 19q/19p: 0.98

% cells with del 19q: 5.5%

INTERPRETATION: The results are within the normal ran e and suggest
absence of deletions of 1p and 19q in this glioma ). del (1 p)
and deI(19q) has been observed in glioma specimens, especnally
oligodendrogliomas. Clinical and pathologic correlation is recommended.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Data Analysis:

DESCRIPTION OF THE ASSAY: 1p and 19q FISH studies were performed on
paraffin embedded tumor sections. Two hybridizations were performed:

one with a 1p/1q probe/control pair and one with a 19q/19p

probe/control pair. The 19q and 1p probes map to regions that are

commonly deleted in gliomas. The nuclei are counterstained with DAPI

and the cells examined by epi-fluorescence microscopy. The total

number of counts for each probe is determined in 200 cells and the
ratios of 1p/1q and 19q/19p are calculated.

Normal range: The normal ratio is approximately 1. Any ratio > 0.80 is
considered normal.

LIMITATIONS: Low levels of malignant cells in the specimen can result
in a false negative result. As with all laboratory tests, sampling

error and other factors may affect the outcome of the assay.
Correlation of results with other clinical and laboratory data should

be obtained.

COMMENT: This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined b the Molecular Pathology Laboratory at”
ﬁ. It has not been cleared or approve yt e . .

00 an rug ministration.
This test is not to be used as a diagnostic procedure without

confirmation of the diagnosis by another medically established product
or procedure.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:
Right post central tumor consistent with Glioma: Oligoastrocytoma with
Focal anaplastic changes.

Source of Specimen:
1: FISH-BRAIN

Gross Description:

ormalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue

Histology Laboratory

