 

d.ﬂrwgumwmk/ MVWf/“ﬁd , N95

.1 5th :jmiamfﬁm L51“ raw/3 1”,, /, , // p
UUID:OE6417D3-6E95-4EEF-AE93-4606904F6525
TCGA-AS-AaGV-OlA-PR Redacted
ll IlllIlllllllIIlllllllI||||||IIIllllllllllllllllllllllll|||| ‘

I
IllllllllllllllllIlllllllllIllllllilllllllIHIHIIIIIIIII
lllllllllllllllllllllll||l|l|l||||||||l|lll| llllllllll ordering M n-

 

 

I l Copies To:
A;
Location: Date of Procedure:
Date Received:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS:

A. UTERUS, FALLOPlAN TUBES, AND OVARlES:
- Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioid’type with associated squamous changes,

FIGO grade I, nuclear grade 2 (see comment)

- Tumor extensively involves the mucosa of the uterine fundus and uterine corpus

- Carcinoma also extends into lower uterine segment

- Myometrial invasion by tumor is present superﬁcially (less than 50% of wall is
involved)

- Dislodged fragments of tumor are present within some cndothelial-lined spaces,
including veins; an iatrogenic process is favored over true lymphovascular invasion
by tumor

- Cervix, including surgical margin is negative for tumor

- No involvement of parametrial tissues by tumor

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving ovaries or fallopian tubes

- Other ﬁndings include:

- Foci of endometrial glandular hyperplasia, simple and complex types with varying

degrees with associated atypia

- Some inactive/weakly proliferative endometrium

- Tiny benign endometrial and endocervical polyps and a small mixed endometrial-

endocervical polyp

- Several small uterine leiomyomas, some with associated hyalini'zation

- Adenomyosis

- Cervix also shows focal changes suggestive of prior curettage, acute and chronic

inflammation, squamous metaplasia, reactive epithelial changes, cystic endocervical
tunnel clusters and nabothian cysts

— Right ovary with atrophic changes and benign surface micropapillary epithelial

and stromal proliferation

- Left ovary with atrophic changes and cystic epithelial inclusions

- Both fallopian tubes show mild epithelial hyperplasia without signiﬁcant atypia

B. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Two reactive lymph nodes without evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained
sections or in sections stained for keratin (0/2)

C. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXClSlON:
- Nineteen reactive lymph nodes

Patient Case(s)

Page i of 4

 

PATIENT NOTIFIED OF RESULTS
DR: NURSE: DATE:

 

 

 

 

 

:35“ 3,2, . . .pa

 

 

m m _

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained sections or in sections stained for
keratin (0/19)

COMMENT: Pathologic tumor stage is assigned as follows: ple, N0. The preliminary
pathologic ﬁndings were conveyed to Dr. - via campus e-mail or

HISTORY: Uterine cancer

MlCROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.

SPECIAL STUDIES: H&E-stained step sections (A3 x2, A4 x2, A7 x2, All xl, A12 xl, A13 x1)

IMMUNOSTAINS:
Keratin AEl/AE3 (B l )2 No “occult” keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells identiﬁed.
Keratin AEl/AE3 (C1, C2, C3): No “occult” keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells identiﬁed.

GROSS:

A. UTERUS, CERVIX, BILATERAL FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries", and received fresh in the
Operating Room for frozen section and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin, is a 68 gram total hysterectomy and bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The uterus is about 6.5 x 5.5 x 3.0 cm in greatest overall dimensions. The
cervix is 2.8 cm long and up to 3.0 cm in diameter. The endometrial cavity is about 4.5 cm long and up to 3.7 cm in
width. The uninvolved endometrium has a maximum thickness of 0.2 cm. The muscular uterine wall ranges from
about 1.1 to 1.4 cm in thickness. The ﬁmbriated right fallopian tube is 4.3 cm long and ranges from 0.2 to 0.4 cm in
diameter with a maximum luminal diameter of 0.1 cm. The right ovary is 2.6 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm. The ﬁmbriated left
fallopian tube is 5.2 cm long and ranges from 0.2 to 0.3 cm in diameter with a maximum luminal diameter of less
than 0.1 cm. The left ovary is about 2.1 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm.

In the anterior uterine fundus, there is a 500; friable exophytic/polypoid tumor mass that is about 2.3 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm.
Cut sections in the vicinity of the polypoid lesion reveal superficial involvement of the underlying myometrium by
tumor. Much of the rest of the mucosa of the adjacent uterine corpus and lower uterine segment shows irregular
slightly shaggy pale tan and focally friable endometrium that may also be involved by tumor. Also received in the
same container is a separate 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm aggregate of similar-appearing soft friable tan tumor. The cervix
appears grossly free of tumor. Attached to the uterus there is a small amount of parametrial soﬁ tissue, bilaterally
that also appears grossly free of tumor. No metastatic tumor is seen in the ovaries or fallopian tube.

Within the uterus there are three well-circumscribed intramural leiomyomas, ranging from about 0.8 to 1.0 cm in
maximum dimension. Each of the leiomyomas are composed of ﬁrm solid‘tan-white tissue without grossly evident
areas of hemorrhage or necrosis. The cervix is remarkable only for several mucous-ﬁlled cysts ranging from less
than 0.1 to about 0.3 cm in diameter. Both ovaries are atrophic and show no gross pathologic lesions. The fallopian
tubes are also grossly unremarkable.

Ink key: anterior aspect of uterus - blue; posterior aspect of uterus - black.

The entire lesion and anterior aspect of the fundus are submitted. Representative sections of the remaining tissue
are submitted.

Slide key:

A1. Remnant of frozen section Al (uterine tumor) - 1

A2. Remnant of frozen section A2 (left ovary) - 1

A3, A4. Anterior cervix and lower uterine segment - I each
A5, A6. Posterior cervix and lower uterine segment - 1 each
A7. Anterior uterine fundus with friable polypoid tumor - l

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of4

 

 

 

~ Ind

A8. Anterior uterine fundus with leiomyoma and mucosal tumor - 1
A9. Posterior uterine fundus - 2

A10. Two Ieiomyomas - 2

All. Right parametrial tissues ~ 2

A12. Leﬁ parametrial tissues - multiple

A13. Right ovary ~ 1

A14. Right ovary ~ 2

A15. Right fallopian tube (proximal, mid and distal segments) - 3
A16. Left ovary - 2

A17. Left fallopian tube (proximal, mid and distal segments) - 3
A18. Separate portion of tumor — multiple

A19. Posterior lower uterine segment — 1

ADDITONAL REPRESENTATIVE SECTIONS (submitted or
A20. Anterior uterine fundus adjacent to friable polypoid tumor — 2
A21-23. Anterior uterine fundus — 2,1,1, respectively

B. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 3.2 x 0.8 cm
aggregate of yellow fatty tissue within which there are embedded two semisoft tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes
are about 0.5 and 1.2 cm in maximum dimension.

The lymph nodes are each entirely embedded along with some of the perinodal fat.

Slide key:
Bl. Two bisected lymph nodes (one inked blue) - 4

C. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is about a 4.8 x 3.4 x 1.0
cm aggregate of multiple fragments of soft yellow fatty tissue, within which are embedded numerous semisoft tan

lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from about 0.1 to 1.5 cm in maximum dimension. The lymph nodes are each
entirely embedded with some of the perinodal fat.

Slide key:

. Cl. Multiple lymph nodes, largest bisected and inked blue - 4

C2. Four lymph nodes - 4
C3. Multiple lymph nodes - 4

Gross dictated by

OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

A. FS A1 (SECTION FROM TUMOR):
- Endometrioi’d adenocarcinoma, FICO grade 1
- Possible superﬁcial invasion, defer to permanent

— No deep myometrial invasion seen
FS A2 (OVARY - LEFT):

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of4

 

 

m #:—

 

If this report includes immunohislochemical res! results, please note [he following:
Numerous immunohixmchemiml tests were developed and their performance characteristics determined by
Those immunohislochemlcal tests have not been cleared or approved by [he

(1.5. Food and Drug Administration (F DA), and FDA approval is not required,

1 have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results. reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
‘ 1.D. Electronically signed

 

 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   

Zrkerll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 4 of 4
it...

hula

“emu: mum

  

