. . rm“ " "
Collection Date: '

.1 . ,
ggiiiizimmgm ' I w") ’ 5 (9594/3) (em/3) .

America“, gmmdy'ukl‘al {— MW: 3744413,
QC Pathologist:

ah i ,t-nrimufmmw (-1 $4.! .
W «2/24,.

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. Left ovary and fallopian tube, excision:

Corpora albicantia.

Serous cysts.

Fallopian tube without signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.

B. Right ovary and fallopian tube. excision:

Corpora albicantia.

Serous cysts. '1

Fallopian tube without significant pathologic abnormality.

Benign paratubal cysts.

C. Uterus, hysterectomy:

Tumor Characteristics: :

1. Histologic type: Mixed pattern carcinoma with

endometrloid and serous components, predominantyirous,

see comment. .. "

2. Histologic grade: 3.

3. Tumor site: Endometrium.

4. Tumor size: 9.5 x 7.5 cm.

5. Myometrial invasion: Tumor extends 1.7 cm into a 2.0 cm

thick myometrlum.

6. Involvement of cervix: No.

7. Extent of involvement of other organs: None identiﬁed.

8. Lymphovascular space invasion: None identiﬁed.

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Margins uninvolved: Bilateral parametria. cervix.

serosa.

2. Margins involved: None.

Lymph Node Status:

1. See parts D through i. K.

Other:

1. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Uterine wall Ieiornyomata.

2. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

3. pTNM stage: pT1b. N2 (FIGO: lilCZ).

D. Left common iliac and aortic lymph nodes, excision:

Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

E. Left obturator lymph nodes. excision:

Seven of seven lymph nodes positive for metastatic

carcinoma. high grade.

Size of the large metastasis: 0.6 cm.

11.

 

uurn:r399n237-4533-raga-arar-asazrs
TCGA-AJ -A3EJ -a1A-PR ”'ﬁ‘éda

lHllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllll
l llllllillllllllllllllllllllilillmlllllillllllhlllllllllllﬂlllliIll

I
lllllllllillllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllll

cted
Ill

 

 

Wm; _

Frozen section diagnosis contrrmed.

F. Left externai lymph nodes. r :ion:

Five lymph nodes. negative for ....tastatic disease.

G. Left obturator lymph nodes #2. excision: ‘
One of ﬁve lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma. .
H. Right aortic and common iliac lymph nodes. excision:
Two of seven lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.
l. Right external lymph nodes. excision:

One of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.
J. Omentum. excision:

Negative for malignancy.

K. Right obturator lymph nodes. excision:

Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease. .

COMMENTS:

Appropriately controlled lmmunohlstochemical stains for p53
and estrogen receptor performed on block 06 show majority of
lesional celis positive for p53 and estrogerjreceptor.

These ﬁndings are consistent with serous carcinoma.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Endometrial cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadioiogic Findings:
SPECIMENS:

Left tube and ovary

Right tube and ovary

. Uterus, cervix

. Left common iliac and aortic lymph nodes
Left obturator lymph nodes

External lymph nodes

. Left obturator lymph nodes #2

. Right aortic and common iliac lymph nodes
I. Right external

J. Omentum

K. Right obturator

00F”?

10.17!“

CODES:

PROCEDURAL DEMOGRAPHICS:
Date of Procedure: .

 

l\

1).

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION: i
A. The first containerA is labeled , #1.
The specimen consists of an ovary with attached fallopian
tube. The ovary measures 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The surface -
is yellow to gray tan. On sectioning there are cysts
containing serous fluid. 0.5 and 1.2 cm. There are corpus
albicans Identified measuring up to 0.5 cm. The fallopian
tube measures 3.0 cm in length and up to 0.4 cm in diameter.
The surface is gray to brown tan. On sectioning there is
no material or lesions identified within the lumen. The
fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable. Renresentative
sections are submitted in cassettes , as
follows: ovary-.1 and 2; fallopian tube--3.
B. The second container B is labeled #2.
The specimen consists of an ovary with attached fallopian
tube. The ovary measures 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The surface
is yellow grey. On sectioning the cut surface is yellow tan
and reveals corpus albicans measuring up to 0.5 cm. The
fallopian tube measures 6.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm in
diameter. The surface is gray to brown tan. On sectioning
there is no material or lesions identified within the lumen.
The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes:

as follows: ovary—1 and 2; fallopian tube--3.
C. The third container 0 is labeled . #3.
The specimen consists of a previously bisected uterus with
attached cervix. The uterus measures 7.5 x 7.0 x 7.0 cm and
weighs 259 grams. The serosal surface is gray tan to brown
tan. There is a subserosai nodule measuring 1.0 cm that has
a white tan whorled appearance. There is no evidence of
hemorrhage or necrosis. The serosal surface has been inked.
Sections from the parametrium have been taken. The cervix
measures 4.0 cm in length and 3.0 cm in diameter and has a
1.0 cm round patent os. The ectocervix is gray ten to pink
tan. The endocervical canal is light tan. a gray tan
polypoid lesion. 1.2 cm. Thereare no other lesions
identiﬁed. The endometrial cavity measures 7.5 x 8.0 cm
and is completely lined by a gray tan nodular shaggy mass
measuring 9.5 x 7.5 cm. On sectioning the mass extends into
the underlying myometrium approximately 1.7 cm into a 2.0 cm
thick myometrium. A section from the mass was examined at
the time of surgery. The mass comes within 0.3 cm of the
lower uterine segment. Within the myometrium there is also
a white tan whorled intramural mass measuring 2.0 cm in.

greatest dimension. There is no evidence of hemorrhage or

necrosis. Received with the specimen are two cassettes,_one
green and one yellow, labeled 3 Representative

sections are submitted in cassettes as
follows: frozen section«~1; anterior cervix-2; posterior
cervix-3; full thickness sections taken from the mass-4 to
8; lower uterine segment-~9; left parametrium~~10; right

parametrium-41; subserosal nodule-42: mvometrial mass-13.

D. The fourth container Dis labeled ' left

. aortic lymph nodes common iliac. The specimen consists of a

1!.

 

 

 

portion of fibroadlpose tissuer‘aasurlng 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm.
Sectioning reveals four probe .ymph nodes measuring from
0.5 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are
entirely submitted in cassettes l3 follows: tvvo
probable nodes-1; one probable node bisected-”Q; one
probable lymph node bisected—3 and 4

E. The ﬁfth container E is labeled left
obturator lymph nodes. The specimen consists of a portion
of fibroadlpose tissue measuring 5.0 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm.
Sectioning reveals lymphoid fragments measuring from 0.7 to
1.5 cm. Representative sections were examined at the time
of surgery. The lymphoid fragments are subsequently
entirely submitted in cassettes . - as follows:
frozen section-4: two pieces--2; one piece sectioned—3;

one piece sectioned--4.

F. The sixth container F is labeled ' left

external. The specimen consists of a portion of

fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.0 x 4.5 X21 .0 cm.

Sectioning reveals five probable lymph nodes measuring from
0.7 to 1.8 cm. .The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes r \ lS follows: three probable nodes-4:
one probable node blsected--2; one probable lymph node
bisected-{i and 4.

G. The seventh container G is labeled ,

left obturator lymph nodes #2. The specimen consrsrs of a
portion of fibroadlpose tissue measuring 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm.
Sectioning reveals five probable lymph nodes measuring from
0.5 to 4.0 cm. The ivmoh nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes as follows: two probable nodes—4:
one probable node bisected-2; one probable node bisected—3
and 4; One probable node sectioned-6 to 8.

H. The eighth container H is labeled

right aortic and common iliac. The specimen consrsrs or a
portion of fibroadlpose tissue, 4.5 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm.

Sectioning reveals seven probable lymph nodes. 0.5 to 1.5
cm. The Ivmnh nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes

as follows: three probable nodes-4; two

probable nodes-«2; one probable node bisected--3; one
probable lymph node bisected-«l.

l. The ninth container l is labeled l _ right
external. The specimen consists of a portion of

fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm.

Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes measuring from
0.6 to 1.2 cm The Ivmnh nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes ‘ . follows: two probable nodes—1;
one probable node blsected~2.

J. The tenth container J is labeled 5

omentum. The specimen consists of a piece of yellow tan
Iobular fibroadipose omental tissue measuring 40.0 x 14.0 x
2.0 cm. On sectioning there are no nodules grossly

identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in four
cassettes.

K. The eleventh container K is labeled 1
‘The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue

y ‘measgrlno 7.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals six

probable lymph nodes measuring noun autism. The,
lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes
as follows: one probable node bisected~-1; three
propable nodes--2; one probable node bisected—3; one
'1 probable node sectioned—4 to 9.

1r.

 

