 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Received Date/Time

Reporting Information Date/Time ; Final Updated
Histopatholo ist
Laboratory

Specimen Comment Final

(AlFS) 12 x 10 x 3mm (x1)

Consultant—In—Charge — Final

Submitting Physician Final
Histopathology Report Final Updated
ADDENDUM

ADDENDUM TO HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT—

One immunohistochemical result had been
inadvertently omitted from the original report.

The neoplastic cells are negative for
pancytokeratin AEI/B in the presence of a working
external positive control, excluding thymomas,
carcinomas, carcinoids and non—germinomatous germ
cell tumours in conjunction with the B—lymphoid
immunophenotype of the neoplasm.

THE DIAGNOSIS REMAINS UNCHANGED.

NOTE : Please see below for original report.

Patholoiist :

DIAGNOSIS
(A) ANTERIOR MEDIASTINAL / THYMIC MASS: DIFFUSE
LARGE B—CELL LYMPHOMA.

(B) PARATRACHEAL LYMPH NODE: REACTIVE HYPERPLASIA.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

(AFS) Mediastinal mass resection: "Round cell"
neoplasm; lymphoma not excluded. Please await

iaraffin workui.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
(A) Received fresh for frozen section and subsequently fixed in formalin as
frozen remnant is a specimen labelled with patient‘s data and designated
"mediastinal mass resection". It consists of a bilobed thymic mass measuring 12

 

 

 

 

 

x 9 x 6.5cm straddling the tracheal furrow posterosuperiorly, with posteriorly
adherent pericardium measuring 7 x 4.50m sutured on its left edge, as well as an
adherent, stapled wedge of right lung measuring 5 x 2 x 1cm. The specimen has
been sectioned parallel to the coronal plane to reveal a solid, "fish—flesh"
whitish tumour with a slightly lobulated cut surface measuring 10.5 x 8.5 x 6cm
with a focal (approximately 10% of the tumour volume), eccentric area of
necrosis. The tumour abuts on the resection margin circumferentially and is
situated 2cm from the lung parenchymal resection margin.

(AlFS, A2 to AlO—fixed sections of tumour, A11 & AlZ—tumour with pericardial
surface inked green, A13 & A14—tumour with circumferential resection margin
inked red, A15 & A16—tumour, A17—tumour with lung and parenchymal resection

Nd yellow}, AlB—tumour with surrounding fat)

(B) The specimen is received in formalin, labelled with patient's data, and

designated "paratracheal lymph node". It consists of a iece of fibrofatty

tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.8cm. (B1; no reserve) _
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

(A) TUMOUR CHARACTERISTICS

Type : Diffuse large B—cell lymphoma.
Grade : High.
Architecture : Vaguely nodular—to—diffuse, patternless sheets with

fibrovascular partitioning,

unaccompanied by perivascular spaces.
Necrosis : Present focally (especially Blocks A11, A13, A15 and A16).
Cytology : Large lymphoid cells with ample, pale eosinophilic—to—clear
cytoplasm and

irregular vesicular nuclei, mostly with a centroblastic nucleolar
disposition.

Immunophenotype

The lymphomatous cells are diffusely positive for pan-B cell marker CD20, with
intense immunoreactivity the germinal centre—associated transcription modulator
bcl—6, but not its associated surface marker CD10 (which highlights mainly
circulating granulocytes), accompanied by widespread coexpression of
late—to—postgerminal centre—associated transcription factor MUM—1 as well as
antiapoptosis protein bcl—2, the latter in overt excess over physiological
expression by the small numbers of intermingled and interspersed, reactive,
small CD3—positive T—lymphocytes (which disclose perivascular accentuation),
excluding both precursor lymphoblastic neoplasia in conjunction with the
cytoplasmic abundance and presence of a peripheral (rather than precursor
blastic) nuclear chromatin pattern, as well as Burkitt lymphoma in conjunction
with a cell proliferation fraction of well below 100% (70—80% on average) by
Ki—67 immunolabelling, which also highlights a degree of nuclear pleomorphism
that is inappropriate for the latter entity. In this context, variable, patchy
coexpression of CD30 is in keeping with a mediastinal/thymic primary, although
CD23 coexpression is not forthcoming, with its B—lineage excluding anaplastic
lymphoma. In addition, the preferential intensity and extent of bcl—6 over MUM.1
nuclear expression negates classical Hodgkin lymphoma of lymphocyte—depleted
morphology. Immunostaining for Cyclin D1 is negative within the lymphomatous
population, highlighting only physiological expression in scattered histiocytic
and activated endothelial nuclei, ruling out a transformed mantle cell lymphoma.
Despite the nodularity of the infiltrate, CD21 immunostaining is completely
negative for any trace of a follicular dendritic meshwork, in the presence of a
working external positive control.

Proliferation : Mitoses : Easily found.

Tumour edges : Demarcated.

Stromal reaction : Compartmentalising sclerosis with a sprinkling of small
lymphocytes.

EXTENT OF TUMOUR
Local invasion : Replaces most of thymus except focally (Block A11), and
extends into right lung

(Block A17) with adhesion but not penetration of pericardium.

Mediastinal lymph nodes (Block A18 and B1) appear uninvolved.

(B) Histology shows a lymph node with architectural preservation and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

