 

| Sex: Female \ \

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.0.8.;
MRN ii '
Ref Ph’ Criteria Yes
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPM Discrepancy
.1 . W. Prior History
. V I .V ‘9 , , a . x
‘ " 'Wﬁmcﬁ Dual/Synrhronous Primary Mm \ }.
Cnoil (circle): ‘UAUFW DISQUALIFIED |
Reviewer lnitl \" ' owed: _

 

Reported:

URGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

  

 

DlAGNOSls:
Uterus. cervix. bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes. hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.
Tumor Characteristics:
. Hietologic type: Endometrioid type.
. Histologic grade: 3.
. Tumor site: Tumor present within the uterine corpus; no involvement of lower uterine segment or uterine cervix identiﬁed.
. Tumor size: 5.0 cm in greatest dimension.
Myometrial invasion: Tumor shows invasion oi less than half of the myometrial thickness.
Greatest depth of tumor invasion: 0.5 cm into an area of myometn’um that is 4.3 cm in thickness:
. Lymphovascular space invasion: No deﬁnite foci of Iymphovascular space invasion identiﬁed in sections examined —- see specimen D (right pelvic
lymph nodes).
Surgical Margin Status:
1 No tumor identiﬁed at the cervical inked margins:
2. No tumor identiﬁed within the bilateral parametrial tissue.

‘4 5» 5n is on no -‘

 

Other. . /c,A/ J ,3

1. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: I 5/ ,1/ Y3 8’6
Myometrium: Foci oi adenomyosis. \ W M 0 5 3
Uterine seroaa: No neoplasm identiﬁed. MM W, M /
Bilateral ovaries: No neoplasm identiﬁed. . . W ‘
Bilateral fallopian tubes: No neoplasm identiﬁed. §/ {2 ' W 65% /

2. N00 Cancer Staging of the endometrium: T 12, N1.

B. Lymph nodes. right paraaortic, excision: 9/3” 1
No neoplasm identiﬁed in three lymph nodes.

c. Lymph nodes, left paraaortic. excision:
No neoplasm identiﬁed in four lymph nodes.

D. Lymph node. right pelvic, excision:
Microscopic locus of metastatic carclnoma involving 1 of 11 lymph nodes (conﬁrmed with pancytokeratin immunostain).

E. Lymph nodesi left pelvic, excision:
No neoplasm identified in seven lymph nodes.

Electronic Signature:

 

CLlNlCAL HlSTORY.
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPEC‘MENS: TCGA-AJ -A2QL-B1A-PR Reda ilfed

 

 

 

 

UUID:4AD4EBDl-5DA7-4134-AOC0-6AF1C3A83CD4

IHIHMHWIMHWIHmHMHﬂHHM
Iiiwmmmmmmmmwmmimmﬂm

Mll

MWl

INHIIWMMMMMWMWWWMWW
wmme

A. Uterus. cervix. bilateral tubes and ovaries
8. Right paraaortic lymph node

C. Left paraaortic lymph node

0. Right pelvic lymph node

E. Left pelvic lymph node

“MM ....... . .. "HM-..”n: ,MJW.M.-~.. M.” , . .....

 

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION: ..
The specimen is received in ﬁve formalin ﬁlled containers labeled with the patient‘s namr

A. Container A is additionally labeled 'uterus cervix 830' and contains a 250.5 g uterus with attached cervix received with attached bilateral adnexa. The
8.0 cm in length x 5.0 x 4.5 cm uterine corpus is surfaced by prnk~tan glistening serosa. The 4.0 cm in length x 2.5 )t 2.4 cm uterine cervix is partially

canal is yello
normal appearing endometrium is identified 0n section, this mass extends 0.6 cm into a 4.0 cm thick pink—tan, ﬁbrous. trabeculated myometrium. No
additional myometrial nodules or lesions are identiﬁed.

The right fimbriated fallopian tube is 4.5 cm in length and ranging from 0.4 to 0.7 cm in diameter. The attached yellow-tan tabulated ovary is 2.5 x 1.5 x
0.9 cm. The cut surface is yellowtan and ﬁbrous with two uniloculated subcortical cysts, 0.3 and 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. Each features a smooth
inner lining and contains clear, watery fluid.

The left fimbriated fallopian tube is 5.0 cm in length and ranges from 0,5 to 0.7 cm in diameter. The attached 5.0 x 1.8 x 0.7 cm yellow-tan lobulated
ovary is remarkable for a 2.3 cm multiioculated paraovarian cyst. The cysts feature smooth inner linings and contain yellow~tan fluid. The remainder of
the cut emfm‘e i° "ﬂour-tan and ﬁbrous with few gray-white corpora alblwntia. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 through 19
labeled signaled as follows: A1 - right parametrium, on face; A2 ~ left parametrium, en face; A3 - anterior endoeciocervix; A4 ~ posterior
endoeuocervrx. no - anterior lower uterine segment: A6 — posterior lower uterine segment: A7 and 8 - full thickness anterior endomyometn'um, bisected
(notched ends adjoin); A9 and 10 — full thickness anterior endomyometrium. bisected (notched ends adjoin); A11 and 12 - full thickness posterior
endomyometrium. bisected (notched ends adjoin); A13 and 14 - full thickness posterior endomyometn’um. bisected (notched ends adjoin); A15 — right
fallopian tube; A16 ~ right ovary; A17 - left fallopian tube; A18 - leﬂ paraovarian cyst, A19 - left ovary.

s are identified ranging f p to 3 0 cm In greatest dimensron. They are entirely submrtted in
cassettes 81 through 3 labeled designated as follows: 81 - two whole possible lymph nodes; 82 and 3 - one whole possible irisected
lymph node.

0. Container C is additionally labeled ‘lelt paraaonic lymph node' and contains a 5.0 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan frbrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, four ﬁrm fatty possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 1.0 up to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes C1 through 4 labeled designated as follows: C1 - two whole possible lymph nodes; C2 - one whole possible bisected lymph
node; C3 and 4 « one whole posalwu urbmeu lymph node.

palpation, multiple ﬁrm fatty possible lvrnoh nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 up to 4.0 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes Di through 10 labeled designated as follows: Di - four whole possible lymph nodes; 02 - three whole possible lymph nodes;
03 and 4 - one whole possible bisected rympu node in each cassette; 05 through 7 - one whole possible lymph node, quadrisected: 08 through 10 - one
whole possible lymph node, quadrisected.

E. Container E is additionally labeled 'len pelvic lymph node‘ and contains an 8.3 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, multiple ﬁrm fatty possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.6 up to 3.3 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes E1 through 8 labeled designated as follows: E1 ~ three whole possible lymph nodes; E2 ~ one whole possible bisected lymph
node; E3 and 4 - one whole passion; UlMtuU lymph node; ES and 6 - one whole poSsible bisected lymph node; E7 and 8 - one whole possible bisected

lymph node.
w. “We“, ”We”,

 

 

