SURGICAL PATHOLOGY ””I°?5212.°J£: mags-:23: “““Fa’é‘ﬁc

. III I
Case Number- m llilllllllllll |||l|||||| |||l|||||||||l|l

Diagnosis:
Testicle, right, radical orchiectomy

Histologic tumor type: malignant germ cell tumor, 99% embryonal
carcinoma, with <1% syncytiotrophopblastic giant cells. This
diagnosis is supported by very focal staining for beta—HCG and
no staining for AFP (block A6)

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.5 cm

Extent of tumor invasion (If present, macroscopic—microscopic):
Epididymis: absent

Tunica vaginalis: absent

Spermatic cord: absent

Paratesticular soft tissues: absent

Rete testis: absent

Tumor focality: unifocal (the tumor is dumbbell shaped, with an
outpouching of tumor which is contiguous with the main tumor
mass, this appears to have been seen on ultrasound as two
separate tumor foci)

Histologic assessment of surgical margins, including spermatic
cord margin: surgical margins free of tumor

Lymphovascular invasion: present (block A4)
Other significant findings: none

AJCC Staging:
pT2
pNx

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen
and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

Comment:

The mildly elevated AFP in this patient raises the possibility
of a yolk sac tumor component . This was not seen in the sampled
sections, but it possible that early yolk sac tumor
differentiation is present in unsampled areas. AFP elevation is
uncommon in embryonal carcinoma. Focal syncytiotrophoblast cells

Edi

./

are common in embryonal carcinoma and are seen in this case.
Small veins with embryonal carcinoma are seen in sections from
the tunica albuginea, staging this tumor as pT2.

Clinical History:
Right testicular mass.

Gross Description:
Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type/side of specimen: Radical, right

Size of specimen: 65.0 grams

Structures attached to testis: Testicle (5.3 x 3.8 cm),
epididymis (5.0 X 1.3 x 1.0 cm), spermatic cord (11.0 cm in
length x 1.7 cm in diameter), and with overlying free—moving
tunica vaginalis.

Orientation: Inking: surface/black

Tumor description: In the center of the testicular parenchyma,
well-circumscribed, solid, tan/pink, and homogeneous.

Tumor size: 4.5 x 4.0 x 3.8 cm

Focality of tumor: Unifocal, however, there is a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.5
cm area of outpouching from the original mass which abuts the
tunica albuginea.

Confinement/non—confinement:

Tunica albuginea: Confined

Relationship of tumor to adjacent anatomic structures:
Epididymis: Does not involve

Tunica vaginalis: Does not involve

Paratesticular soft tissues: Does not involve

Spermatic cord: Does not involve

Hilar soft tissue: Does not involve
Other: N/A

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: 11.5 cm from the
spermatic cord margin, 0.3 cm from the tunica vaginalis, and
abuts the tunica albuginea.

Description of remainder of tissue: The remaining testicular
parenchyma is compressed, pink/tan, spongy, and otherwise
unremarkable.

Tissue submitted for special investigation: None

Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

A1 - Spermatic cord margin

A2—A8 - Representative sections of mass, tunica albuginea, and
tunica vaginalis (A4—A5, representative sections of mass with
out pouching)

A9 — Tumor and hilum and tumor with epididymis

A10 — Normal, uninvolved testis

The remaining tissue is retained in formalin.

 

