(4395’ mm o g
Date of surgery: >3Laé£tawnw elaﬂwltao‘z (112114

Na 3771/”
wtqume QMWL dig» WWWME

Right eye enucleation (LC/Q (nu/(if, Y 7 0157

Macroscopy SJ; é) Cywwwvl C (0‘? 5

3/20/14
The eyeball measures 25 by 23 by 2 mm with a posterior segment of optic nerve of 9V mm of
length and 3 mm in diameter. At the surface there is an extrasclérale extension of 4 mm.
Samples have been made for cryopreservation. At the section, presence of a black tumor
measuring 19 by 18 by IO mm. The specimen has been entirely included in 14 blocks

Microscopy SWPM‘ MWW’I fim 5” 11m IWMA

M SWW
The tumor seen macroscopically correspond to a choroidal melanoma. This tumor
proliferation is made of epithelioid (97%) and fusiforrn (3%) cells gathering in diffuse sheets
or tumor cluster in a poor quantity of stroma heavily vascularised. Tumor cells present

marked cytonuclear atypias. Cytoplasms contain rarely some melanin pigment.The mitotic
index is estimated at 10 mitosis at the 40 magniﬁcation.

The tumor invades the sclera with the presence of extrascle’rale extension.

Presence of tumor embolus in the vessels with tumor cells around the nerve ending.
Absence of tumor extension to the iris or ciliary body

There is an associated retinal detachment

The prelaminar and post laminar optic nerve as well as the optic foramen and the cut end are
free

The meningeal sheaths are free

UUID: E7477E21- -C96('.- 4003- 92C3 8689644R17eS7Aac
TCGA- V4- ASEI- 91A- -PR

IIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIII|III|I|IIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIcIIeel
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII|III|II|IIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII II IIIIIIII IIIII I II II III

Conclusion

Melanoma with epithelioid and fusiform cells
Size ofthe tumor: 19 by 18 mm

The tumor invades the sclera with focal extra sclera extension

Presence of tumor embolus as well as tumor cells around the nerve ending
Absence of tumor extension to the ciliary body and the iris

The optic nerve , the meningeal sheaths and the cut end of the optic nerve are free.

 
     
    

 

, .ic.
3.1:. __ ._.______I:._ _I:f’. —
, ._, 13:15.: §%,
'm anoint”

 

 

 

 

 

woo
TKCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

mm;- The T6621 Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis

documented on the initial pathology reportfur a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Con trot Form completedfor the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T35): m’i‘SS identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient ldentiﬁer: _
Completed By {Interviewer Name on OpenClinica]: ,. Completed Date: _
IDiagnosis information
i # l Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
I 3 - . . . Provide the diagnosis! histologic subtype{s) documented on
. o .
I Fathologic Diagnosis 97 /° epithelimd cells the initial pathology report for this case. lfthe histology for
3 pm: «,1de on Initial 0 ’ i this case is mixed, prcwde all listed subtypes.
" m [e
9atl3ology Report 3 ’6 ”p d cells
» . b . . ,, . . . Provide the histologic features selected'on the TCGA Case
2 ”3010316 feamr‘gs Of 61-90%) epithelimd cells Quality Control Form completed for this case.
j 2 ; the sample protected
for TCGA, as reﬂected 130% spindle cells
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

 

lDiscrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 i Provide the yeaggn for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy The section of the frozen sample used for sending §?fh°I°$yf‘§p°fté°’ LS: fééfém cornsifffgtlvgfflfg
{getween the pathology to TCGA corresponds to a section of the tumor ”gm“ 5“” on e ‘ age Q‘Ia ‘On 0 r rm.
report and the TCGA where the epithelioid part is predominant.

Case Quality Control
Foam. The percentages mentioned on the initial
: ﬁsheiogy Report correspond to an average on the
whole embedded sections used for establish the
Pathology Report,
Name OfTSS Reviewing Provide the name ofthe pathoIogzst who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or i for resist

 

; f Bioreposmorv Director l

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled,

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist-or Biorepository Director Date

:7 acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled, The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal lnvestigator Signature Date

