UUID:3368:930—3CDD-4382-820F-E555A39|JF36A
TCGA-LS-MON-BlA-PR Redacted

Ill||||||||lllI||||IIIIHIIHIIlllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIII ”ll
“IIIIHIIIIHIIHHIIII IIIIIHIlIHIHIIIIIl II I I II
pnocswas: spHs —

Sourca of Specimen: mantel nodule. Esophageal cancer.

1. ”Quantum nodule" A tan aggregate of fat.
Frozen section control.

2. ”Proximal stomach * distal esophagus” Received in formalin in a medium

| | | I II | |
lllllllllllHIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll -

 

 

PREVICIJS DiAGNOSiS [RWIRY

PAGE 3: 3
— - sex: n

 

container is a portion of distal esophagus and, proximal staunch. The distal

esophagus treasures ?.5 cm in length and the proximal stunach measures 4.5 cm

in length. There is a 5.0 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue with

multiple potential lynph nodes. Soft tissue margin inked black. The distal

esophagus contains a fungating 4.0 x 2.2 on mass that rises 1.2 'cm above the

surrounding gray-ton, wrinkled mucosa. Yhis mass is located 2.8 cm from the

proximal esophagus margin and 4.0 cm from the distal stomach margin. The soft

tissue underlying the tunor is inked black. Upon sectioning, the mass appears

to be limited to the mucosa with no obvious areas of extension into the

mdarlying wall identified grossly.

2A. Proximal eaomageal maroin. (

28. Distal gastric mrgin.

Zc-F. Complete cross sections of tumor with underlying esophageal well.

each)

26. Three potential lymph nodes.

2H-J. Reminder of fibroadipose tissue.

3. "Mediastinal lymph node" Received in formalin in a small container is a 3.0

x 1.8 x 1.1 cm portion of adipose tissue. Four possible lymph nodes are

identified up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Submitted whole. One cassette.
fat retained)

Io. "Proximal esophageal margin' Received in formalin in a small container is a

1.3 cm in length x 2.2 cm in diameter unoriented segment of esophagus. The

specimen contains one stapled end and one opened end. Both the adventitial. and

mcosal surfaces are mremarkabla. Submitted whole, opened end en face. One

cassette. i . staple line retained)

5. ”Para-esophageal lynph node” Received in formalin in a small container is a

2.2 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm aggregate of adipose tissue. one possible lymph node is

identified measuring 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Bisected. One cassette

fat retained)

FROZEN SECTION REPORT

Fibroadipoee tissue. negative for neoplasm.

. have reviewed and interpreted the frozen section
material at the time it was requested. "

 

'j a " Perman‘ént sections confirm frozen section report.

0

mm i-

" q;

ESOPHAGUS CARC l m

 

PREVXOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY

‘ PAGE #: I;
— - sex: «

 

LOCATION: Lover esophagus
SIZE: Microscopic

Has it been treated preoperatively with chemo/radiation therapy: No

TYPE OF CARCIW: Adenocarcinoma arising in Barrett‘s mucosa

DEFY ii 0F INVASION : Submcosa

NUMBER OF PBS 1 T I VE LYMPH NWES / TOTAL NUMBER OF MODE 5 EXAM! NED : 1/10
D l ST ANT METASTASI S : Unknoun .

RESECT iON MARS!” iHVOLVED: No

11b N1

2&4. Distal esophagus, resection: Microscopic invasive adenocarcinoma arising
in polypoid high grade dysplasia in a background of Barrett's moss with flat
high grade dysplasia, invading barely into superficial “unease. Margins

negative. Five lynph nodes negative for neoplasm. Please see template for
details.

1. Omentun, biopsy: Negative for neoplasm.

3. Mediaatinal lynph node, excision: four lynph nodes negative for neoplasm.

5. Para-esophageal lynph m, excision: Hetaatatic adenocarcinoma in one
“MW

“mm signing staff pathologist, have personally
exam a interpret t e slides from this. case.

 

  
       

crime .-. ' .. .,_ .
Diagnosis Diauepantv
Finis-v iunnv Sit: D" tre ant-v
llll‘AAEsaeplnpzv. , 7 1
Prior Malignancy |us:o. ,, , .
u:- i’ . s . .

