 

 

 

/

m:

jab o»3

(arm WO.YUZQM, N05
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT W 50/ 5
(Ei}rr é;M&WWéfT/Ulvﬁ

Case Number: Q5171, /
IZ/ﬂlﬁaiyh)
Diagnosis:

A: Uterus and cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes,
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy

Location of tumor: anterior and posterior endometrium extending
into anterior and posterior lower uterine segment and invasive
carcinoma also involves the posterior upper endocervix (A18)

Tumor size: 6.5 x 6.4 x 4.5 cm per gross measurement of
carcinoma within the endometrium and a large amount of disrupted
tumor is also received separately (9.2 x 8.9 x 3.0 cm) (see
comment)

Histologic type: Carcinosarcoma, with serous carcinoma and
homologous sarcomatous component (see comment)

UUID:9DB7C927-SB7F-422C-BBBA-BB71CBQ72119
Histologic grade (FIGO): FIGO grade 3 TCGA-Na-A4PP-61A-PR Redailfed

a:1.1m:(maintaavaa:(mm(m(”111.111.1111
Extent of invasion:

HHHHHHHWIHHHHHﬂﬂHHHHﬂHHHHHﬂIN
Myometrial invasion: outer half

Depth: 6.5 mm Wall thickness: 1.3 cm Percent: 50% (A6)

\

Serosal involvement: not identified

Lower uterine segment involvement: Present. Invasive serous
carcinoma involves anterior and posterior lower uterine
segments.

Cervical involvement: Present. Invasive serous carcinoma
involves stroma of posterior upper endocervix, invading to a
depth of 3 mm, in area with cervical wall thickness of 1.0 cm
(33%) (A18)

Adnexal involvement (see below): not identified

Other sites: not applicable

Cervical margin and distance: Negative. Invasive carcinoma is 7
mm from cervical wall margin (A18). Length of endocervical canal

is 4.5 cm.

Lymphovascular space invasion: present

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens): See Specimen B

Total number involved: 1
Total number examined: 1

Other pathologic findings:

- Cervix with mild acute and chronic cervicitis, Nabothian cyst,
tubal metaplasia and tunnel clusters

— Hyalinized leiomyomata, size 3.2 cm in greatest dimension

— Background atrophic endometrium with chronic endometritis

- Vessels with medial calcification

— Perineural invasion present

Right ovary

— Atrophic with epithelial inclusion glands, and medial
calcification of vessels

— No malignancy identified

Left ovary

— Atrophic with epithelial inclusion glands and dystrophic
calcifications

— No malignancy identified

Right fallopian tube
— Mild chronic salpingitis
— No malignancy identified

Left fallopian tube
v Acute salpingitis
— Fibrous serosal adhesions
— No malignancy identified

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pT 2 le
FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: IIICl

B: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional resection

— One lymph node positive for metastatic serous carcinoma, size
6.2 cm with no definite extracapsular extension identified in
focally disrupted tissue (1/1)

~ See comment

Comment:
The hysterectomy specimen is received disrupted at the junction

 

 

of the upper anterior endocervix/anterior lower uterine segment.
A large amount of detached tumor is also received separately
within the container. Recommend correlation with operative
procedure. Specimen B (right pelvic lymph node) is a large lymph
node which is entirely replaced by metastatic serous carcinoma.
There is no definite extracapsular invasion identified in
representative sections; however, the tissue is focally
disrupted.

Representative sections show predominantly serous carcinoma.
Additional representative sections are submitted and one shows a
sarcomatous component (A17). Previous biopsy also shows
carcinosarcoma with homologous type The
findings are consistent with carcinosarcoma with serous
carcinomatous component and homologous sarcomatous component.
lmmunohistochemistry stains have been added on (A17) and an
addendum will be issued with the result.

Clinical History:
—year—old female with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "uterus."

Adnexa: present, bilaterally attached

Weight: 480 grams

Shape: pyriform

Dimensions:

height: 15.0 cm

anterior to posterior width: 6.8 cm

breadth at fundus: 9.4 cm

Serosa: tan/brown, smooth and glistening with dark red/brown
discoloration; there is gray/white speckling along the posterior
serosa

Cervix:

ectocervix: brown/pink, smooth and glistening

endocervix: tan, trabeculated; The cervix was received disrupted
and tattered; The anterior cervix is connected to the posterior
cervix, but is not connected to the anterior lower uterine
segment.

length of endocervical canal: 4.5 cm long, 2.6 cm wide

length of endometrial cavity: 8.0 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 5.5 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 6.5 x 6.4 x 4.5 cm protruding into the cavity with a
separate aggregate of tumor fragments within the accompanying
container (9.2 x 8.9 x 3.0 cm)

appearance: tan/yellow, friable and fungating

location and extent: it involves the anterior and posterior
endometrial cavity, extends into the posterior lower uterine
segment, 0.2 cm from the endocervical canal

myometrial invasion: inner one—half

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.5 cm
other findings or comments: There is a 3.2 x 2.8 x 2.2 cm
homogeneous white whorled intramural nodule

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 2.5 x 2.8 x 0.6 cm

external surface: grossly unremarkable

cut surface: grossly unremarkable

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 4.2 cm long, 0.5 cm in diameter

other findings: The serosa is tan, smooth and glistening; the
fimbria is focally discolored gray/white; The mucosa is
unremarkable.

Left ovary:

dimensions: 2.6 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm

external surface: grossly unremarkable

cut surface: grossly unremarkable

Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 5.5 cm long, 0.5 cm in diameter

other findings: The tube was received discontinuance. The serosa
is tan/gray, smooth and glistening. The proximal mucosa is
tan/brown and friable.

Lymph nodes: none

Other comments: none
Digital photograph taken: no

Tissue submitted for special investigations: tumor submitted to
Tumor Procurement Foundation

Block summary:

Al — anterior cervix

A2 — posterior cervix

 

 

 

 

A3,A4 — anterior corpus with mass and intramural nodule, full
thickness, bisected

A5 — posterior corpus, full thickness, with mass

A6,A7 — longitudinal posterior lower uterine segment with mass
A8 — longitudinal anterior lower uterine segment with mass

A9 — right ovary and right fallopian tube, cross sections
AlO—A12 — longitudinal section of right fallopian tube and
remaining fimbria

A13 — left ovary and left fallopian tube, cross sectioned

A14 — longitudinal section of left fallopian tube and remaining
fimbria

A15,A16 — anterior lower uterine segment, full thickness,
bisected; possible perpendicular section

A17,A18 — posterior lower uterine segment, perpendicular
section, bisected

A19 — posterior cervix

A20—A24 — representative sections of mass, unoriented

Tissue remains in formalin.

Container B is additionally labeled "right pelvic." It contains
a 6.2 x 5.0 x 3.4 cm tan/gray nodular firm mass. The mass is
focally disrupted and the remainder is surrounded by a smooth
capsule which is less than 0.1 cm in thickness. A portion of the
mass was given to the Tumor Procurement foundation.

Block summary:
81,82 — each contain a representative section of mass

Grossing Pathologistz, MD

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination performed by Dr.

The majority of the tumor is poorly differentiated carcinoma
(serous carcinoma).

Additional representative sections are taken and one slide (A17)
shows a sarcomatous component. Immunohistochemistry is pending
on this section and an addendum will be issued with the result.
Also, the prior outside biopsy shows carcinosarcoma with
homologous type . The findings are
consistent with carcinosarcoma, with serous carcinomatous
component and homologous sarcomatous component.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following
applies:

Appropriate internal and/or external positive and negative
controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical
reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific
reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance
characteristics determined by . These reagents have not been
cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is
not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
For immunohistochemistry stains

Addendum Comment
lmmunostains are performed on the representative section with
sarcomatous component by morphology (A17)

Pancytokeratin: positive in carcinoma, negative in sarcoma
Vimentin: negative in carcinoma; positive in sarcoma

Desmin: negative in carcinoma; focally positive in sarcoma
Smooth muscle actin: negative in carcinoma; subset positive in
sarcoma

Muscle specific actin: negative in carcinoma; subset positive in
sarcoma

The findings are supportive of carcinosarcoma with homologous
sarcomatous component. The previous diagnoses are unchanged.

 

 

