 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDUF 1 DATE: _RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY TO:

Pro-Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post—Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts

 

Container labeled '—1 - cervix, uterus. bilateral tubes
and ovaries" has a previously laterally opened slightly distorted
uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and
cervix together weigh 50 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 7.0 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
pink—red ectocervical mucosa. The as is patent. The uterine canal is
lined by trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth
and tan-pink. The myometrium measures up to 1.3 cm and is gray—pink
and ﬁbrotlc. The entire endometrial canal over both the anterior

and posterior aspects as well as the tundus in both lateral aspects

is occupied by a granular gray-tan to pink plaque-like lesion
measuring overall 8.6 x 4.5 cm. This grossly extends into the lower
uterine segment. On sectioning, this has a tan-gray focally
verrucous—appearing ﬁbrotic-appeering cut surface. In the posterior
aspect this measures up to 0.9 cm in thickness and grossly extends
into the myometrium where it is seen at its nearest point 1.0 cm
from the posterior serosa. The small amount of parametrial son
tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. The left
fallopian tube measures 6.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian

tube measures 5.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a smooth tan-pink serosa
with a tan wall and a pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 1.2 x
0.9 x 0.7 cm and has a lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan-gray ﬁbrotic cut surface. The right ovary measures 1.6

”la—0,3 saga/5 -___ _ __ _
at” \ I WIM Mde‘merW' (0& +9 IM‘M
32h: WW c544 1w ’

Ila/Ia—

 

: C856-5F55-424E49497534725530“
UUID 32C! - -PR Redacted

InIIuiIiiiiiiiiiiiiﬁimliiiiiIuIIIIIIIuminimum
illlllllllllllilllllilllilllllll
iiiiiliiiiiiiiiiilllllllll

x 1 . 1 x 0.9 cm and has a lobular tan—yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan ﬁbrotic cut surface. Also received in the same

container are two tissue cassettes labeled " "
Representative sections are submitted labeled as renews: A —
anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C - lower uterine segment
shaved posterior serosa: D-H - anterior endomyometrlum; l-N -
posterior endomyometriurn: O-P - left lateral endomyometrium; Q«R -
right lateral endomyometrium; S—Y- fundic endomyometrium: Z - left

parametrium; AA - right parametrium; BB - left adnexa; CC - right
adnexa.

Container labeled ‘— 2 — right pelvic lymph nodes" has 7.0
x 6.0 x 1.6 cm of tan—yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned pink-yellow
nodules up to 3.0 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted
labeled A—B. individual nodules are bisected and individually

submitted labeled C-D. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled
E.

Container labeled " 3 - left pelvic lymph nodes" has 6.5 x
6.0 x 1.5 cm of tan—yellow ﬁbroadlpose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned pink-yellow
nodules up to 3.1 cm. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted

labeled A-B. Remaining nodules are each bisected and individually
submitted labeled C-E.

Container labeled "—4 - right aortic lymph nodes" has 6.0
x 4.5 x 1.3 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly deﬁned pink-yellow
nodules up to 2.0 cm. The largest nodules are bisected and

individually submitted labeled A-B. Whole smaller nodules are
submitted labeled C.

Container labeled ' 5 - left common iliac nodes" has 3.0 x
2.2 x 0.8 cm of tan‘yeilow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveal a single 1.8 cm poorly defined

elongated pink-yellow nodule. The nodule is bisected and entirely
submitted in a single cassette.

1'

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled —

Final Diagnosis
Uterus, cervix. bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries. hysterectomy
with bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: intact, previously opene

d.
Histologic type: Mixed. with endometrloid and papillary serous
features (sea comment).

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated (grade Ill).
Tumor site: Endometrial cavity, near entirety.
Tumor size: 6.6 x 4.5 x 0.9 cm.

Myometrlal invasion: Present, tumor invades 0.9 cm into a 1.5 cm
thick myometrlum

(greater than one-half).
involvement of cervix: Tumor focally involves endocervlcal stroma.

Extent of involvement of other organs: Not identiﬁed.
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal iymphovascular space

 

invasion identiﬁed in
sections examined.
Surgical margin status:
Surgical margins appear free of malignancy in sections
examined.
Lymph node status:
Number of lymph nodes received: See below.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
Other:
Leiomyoma.
Bilateral ovaries with changes of atrophy.
Fallopian tubes with no pathologlc diagnosis.
Lymph nodes. right pelvic, resection:
Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (016).
Lymph nodes. left pelvic. resection:
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (014).
Lymph nodes, right aortic, resection:
Seven lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (017).
Lymph node, left common iliac:

One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1). PAS 9
SPC«A

CPT: 88309. 88307 x 3, 88305
Stage: pT2N0

Comments

The patient's clinical history of endometrial cancer is noted No

prior pathology specimens are available within the :

system for comparative evaluation. Histologlo sections demonstrate a
moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma demonstrating
predominantly endometrioid type. Focally, however. areas of
papillary serous differentiation are noted. Large areas of solid

growth pattern are seen. These ﬁndings are consistent with a poorly
differentiated tumor.

Clinical correlation and correlation with prior pathology is
recommended.

At the request of the undersigned patholc let,. these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. d who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This test has been ﬁnalized at the- Campus.
Original report signed out by Dr. *
ADDENDU M‘.

Addendum is made to add Stage pT2NO to the diagnosis.
ADDENDUM DATE:

