  

CGA—AK—3436

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Clinical Histornyiagnosis: Left renal mass.

Source of Speeimen(s):
A: left kidney and adrenals
B: peri aortic lymph nodes

Gross Description:
Received in two parts.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled # 1, ”Left kidney”.

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient‘s
name and medical record nUmber labeled “left kidney". It consists of a
left nephrectomy specimen with attached perinephric fat having an overall
measurement of 20 x 12 x 9 cm. The specimen weighs 700 gm and the adrenal
gland is identified measuring 3 x 3 x 1.5 cm. The adrenal gland is
yellowish-orange and normal appearing. The inferior pole of the kidney is
bulging. At the hilum, there is an 8 cm segment of normal appearing
ureter. The specimen is bivalved. The vessels are normal appearing. The
kidney itself measures approximately 15 X 7 X 6.5 cm and the fat is
difficult to remove. Dissection through the fat discloses no suspicious
lesions, masses, or lymph nodes. In the lower pole of the kidney there is

a yellowish—orange lobulated mass measuring 9 x 6 x 6 cm. The mass
comprises approximately 55% of the kidney and is bulging into the renal
pelvis. The tumor also bulges on the capsule, however, no gross invasion
is identified. The tumor has an appreciable amount of calcifications and
obliterates the inferior calix and distorts the central calix and renal

pelvis.

Designation of Sections: 1A vascular ureter margin, 1B tumor and hilum,
lC—lD tumor in relationship to capsule (1C is towards renal hilum), 1E
tumor,lF normal uninvolved kidney, 16 adrenal gland, 1HHlI perinephric
fat.

Summary of Sections: Representative sections are submitted in lA—lI.

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled # 2, "Peiiaortic lymph nodes".

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled with patient‘s
name and medical record number labeled ”periaortic lymph nodes". It
consists of a few tan rubbery lymph nodes, ranging from 0.5 up to

3 cm. 2A—2C contains multiple single lymph nodes, 2D contains a single
bisected lymph node, and 213 contains a single bisected lymph node.

 

Submitted entirely in 2An2E.

Final Diagnosis:

1. Left kidney and adrenal gland, radical nephrectorgyr""Wm :2")
— Conventional (clear cell) renal carcinoma, Fuhrrnan gia e II (9 cm
confined to the kidney. »” ”J

— No angiolymphatic invasion present.

— Vascular, ureter and circumferential margins negative for tumor.

~ Adrenal gland negative for tumor.

— Perinephric fat with ectopic adrenal gland.

2. Periaortic lymph node, excision:
— Twenty~two lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/22)</

Stage: pT2,N0,Mx.

 

