Page 1 of 4

  
  
 
  
 
 
 

SURGICAL P
PATIENT:

Hospital N
Date of Bi
Soc. Sec.
Location:

Pathologis
Assistant:
Attending
Ordering
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS:

l: UTERUS, BILATERAL FALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES, RADICAL
HYSTERECTOMY:
-Cervix with chronic cystic cervicitis and focal immature
squamous metaplasia
—Uterine corpus with an endometrial polyp at the lower uterine
segment; the lesion is composed of hyperplastic endometrial
and endocervical glands in a fibrotic stroma
«Endometrium is atrophic with focal cystic change
«Uterine posterior serosa extensively infiltrated by high
grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma
—Left ovary and fallopian tube with a high grade serous papillary
carcinoma
~It replaces the left ovary, ruptures the ovarian surface
and infiltrates the serosa
—Focal involvement, left fallopian tube
"Focal vascular and lymphatic invasion present
—Right ovary with focal infiltration of serosa and superficial
cortex by high grade serous papillary carcinoma
—The tumor is focally present on the serosa of the right
fallopian tube; paratubal cysts also present

2: BLADDER PERITONEUM:
—Fibroadipose tissue and peritoneum infiltrated by high grade
serous papillary adenocarcinoma

3—5: OMENTUM No.1, no.2 AND no.3:
—Portions of omentum with focal infiltration by high grade
serous papillary carcinoma
—Focal chronic inflammation and mesothelial cell hyperplasia
also present

6: CUL-DE—SAC TUMOR:
—Fibrous tissue infiltrated by high grade serous papillary
carcinoma

7: SIGMOID TUMOR:
“Fibroadipose tissue infiltrated by high grade serous papillary
carcinoma

8: LEFT SIGMOID TUMOR:
—Peritoneum and fibrous tissue infiltrated by high grade
serous papillary carcinoma

9: DIAPHRAGM TUMOR:
—Peritoneum and fibroadipose tissue infiltrated by high grade

   

 

Page 2 of4

serous papillary carcinoma

10: LEFT SIDE WALL TUMOR:
—Fibroadipose tissue infiltrated by high grade serous papillary
carcinoma

ll: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
~-'I‘wo lymph nodes, negative for tumor

12: BLADDER TUMOR:
—Fibrous tissue infiltrated by high grade serous papillary

HISTORY: Ovarian cancer

MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l: UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES

Labeled "uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries", received fresh from
Operating Room, a portion is taken sterilely for — and the
remaining is subsequently placed in formalin is a 110 gram uterus
with bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries. The uterus measures 5.6
cm from fundus to ectocervix, 3 cm from cornu to cornu, and 2.5 cm
from anterior to posterior. The anterior serosal surface is tan with
multiple fibrous adhesions. 0n the posterior serosal surface of

the uterus is a 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm tan nodular mass with a tan, firm cut
surface. The ectocervix measures 3.5 x 3 cm and is lined by tan,
smooth epithelium. The cervical OS is patent and measures 0.7 x 0.4
cm. The uterus is opened anteriorly. The endocervical canal
measures 2.2 cm and is lined by tan-white rugose epithelium. The
endometrial cavity measures 3 x 1.5 cm and is lined by tan~red
velvety epithelium ranging up to less than 0.1 cm. Present in the
posterior lower uterine segment is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm soft, tan
polypoid tissue. The myometrium measures up to 1.5 cm and is tan—
white and fibrous. The left ovary is completely replaced by a tan,
firm, irregular, solid mass measuring 9 x 7 x 3 cm. The external
surface of the mass is tan, white, firm, irregular with scattered
areas of congestion. The firm mass encroaches the isthmic portion
of the fallopian tube and also the fimbriated end. Cut section
through the mass reveals variegated soft, tan to firm yellow surface
with scattered areas of congestion. No residual normal ovarian
tissue is identified. The mass seems to extend to the posterior
wall of the uterus. The attached fallopian tube measures 8 cm in
length. The fimbriated end is obscured by the tan, firm mass. The
mass encroaches on the isthmic portion of the fallopian tube.

Cut section of the fallopian tube reveals a central stellate lumen
surrounded by wall thickness ranging up to 0.2 cm. The right
fallopian tube measures 6.5 cm in length with an identifiable
fimbriated end. The serosal surface is pink—tan, smooth and
glistening with scattered areas of congestion. Cut section reveals
a central stellate lumen surrounded by wall thickness ranging up to
0.2 cm. There are multiple cysts filled with serous fluid present
along the fallopian tube ranging from 0.1 to 0.4 cm in maximum
thickness. The right ovary measures 3 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm. The external
surface is tan—white and cerebriform. Cut section reveals a tan—
white fibrous parenchyma. There is no gross evidence of tumor on
the right ovary. Representative sections are submitted.

Anterior cervix — l

Posterior cervix — 1

Anterior endomyometrium — 2

Posterior endomyometrium with polyp — 2

was?

 

Page 3 of 4

E Tumor on the posterior uterine wall — 1

F. Right ovary, fallopian tube and paratubal cyst — 6

G. Left fallopian tube — 3

H. Tumor at the left fallopian tube (fimbriated end) - 2
I«M. Tumor — 2 each

N

BLADDER PERITONEUM

Labeled "bladder peritoneum“ and received in formalin are two
fragments of soft, tan tissue admixed with yellow lobulated adipose
tissue measuring 2 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm and 2.5 x 1 x 0.3 cm.

N. All embedded — 2

3: OMENTUM no.1
Labeled “omentum no. 1“ and received in formalin is a 10.5 x 7 x 1 cm
portion of yellow lobulated adipose tissue. No tumor is seen.

O,P. Representative sections — Multiple each

4: OMENTUM no.2

Labeled I‘omentmn no. 2“ and received in formalin is a 10.5 x 7 x 1 cm
portion of yellow lobulated adipose tissue. There is no gross
evidence of tumor. Representative sections are submitted.

Q,R. Representative sections — Multiple each

5: OMENTUM No.3

Labeled “omentum no. 3* and received in formalin is a 20 x 7 x 0.5 cm
portion of yellow lobulated portion of yellow lobulated adipose
tissue. No gross evidence of tumor.

S,T. Representative sections _ Multiple each

6: CUL DE SAC TUMOR

Labeled “cul de sac tumor“ and received in formalin are multiple
fragments of soft, tan tissue admixed with blood measuring in
aggregate 4 x 2.5 x 1 cm and ranging from 0.5 to 2 cm in greatest
dimension.

U. Representative sections — Multiple

7: SIGMOID TUMOR

Labeled “sigmoid tumor" and received in formalin are multiple
fragments of soft, tan tissue admixed with blood measuring in
aggregate 4 x 3 x 1 cm and ranging from 0.6 to 2 cm in greatest
dimension.

V. Representative sections ~ Multiple

8: LEFT SIGMOID TUMOR

Labeled ”left sigmoid tumor" and received in formalin are multiple
fragments of soft, tan tissue measuring in aggregate to 3 x 3 x 1.5
cm and ranging from 0.5 to 2 cm in greatest dimension.

W. Representative sections - Multiple

9: DIAPHRAGM TUMOR

Labeled “diaphragm tumor“ and received in formalin are four
fragments of soft, tan tissue measuring in aggregate 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.4
cm and ranging from 0.4 to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension.

X. All embedded - Multiple

10: LEFT SIDE WALL TUMOR

Labeled “left side wall tumor" and received in formalin is a 3 x 2 x
0.8 cm fragment of soft, tan tissue with loosely adherent yellow
lobulated adipose tissue.

 

Page 4 of4

Y. Representative sections — 4

11: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled "left pelvic lymph node“ and received in formalin are two,
soft, tan lymph nodes measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.5
cm. Also received are portions of yellow lobulated adipose tissue
aggregating to l x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is all embedded.

Z. Two lymph nodes and adipose tissue - Multiple

12: BLADDER TUMOR

Labeled "bladder tumor8 and received in formalin is a 1.5 x l x 0.5
cm fragment of soft, tan tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned
and all embedded.

AA. 4

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):

 

 

 

