 

  
 

Resident:
Pathologi

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "OMENTUM, BIOPSY":
Fibroadipose tissue with fat necrosis, calcifications,

and hemosiderin—laden macrophages.

B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT ILEOCOLECTOMY“ (34 cm):

MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, low grade, moderately differentiated

(9.3 cm in greatest dimension).

Tumor is located in the cecum, forms a fungating mass, is

ulcerative, and has an infiltrating border.

Tumor invades through the muscularis propria.

Proximal and distal resection margins are negative for tumor.

Invasive tumor is 7.9 cm from proximal resection margin, 23 cm from
distal resection margin, and 2.5 cm from radial resection margin.

Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.

Extramural venous invasion is not identified.

Perineural invasion is not identified.

Peritumoral lymphoid response (including Crohn?sﬂlike infiltrate) is
marked.

Residual adenoma is present.

Appendix with no significant pathologic change.

Regional lymph nodes (positiveztotal): 1:18.

AJCC Classification (6th edition): T3 N1 MK.

CLINICAL k
History: with colon CA and pulm. -

Operation: R colectomy.
Operative Findings: None specified.
Clinical Diagnosis: Colon CA.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/l) Omental nodule.
3/2) R hemicolectomy ——> Tissue Bank.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh in two parts, labeled with the patient's name

and medical record number.

Part A, "#1. Omental nodule", consists of one white/tan calcified nodule (3.2 x
2.2 x 1.7 cm). The cut surface demonstrates calcified fat necrosis. The
specimen is submitted for decalcification prior to histologic examination.

Micro Al—AS: Omental nodule, 1—2 frags each, -

Part B, "#2. Right hemicolectomy", consists of one ileocolectomy specimen
including distal ileum (4.0 x 2.6 cm), a segment of colon (30.0 cm x 6.1 cm),
and an appendix (7.2 x 0.8 cm) with a proximal stapled resection margin (3.1
cm, inked blue) and a distal stapled resection margin (6.5 cm, inked blue). A
fungating tumor with central ulceration (9.3 x 5.1 x 0.9 cm) is present in the
cecum abutting the ileocecal valve, 7.9 cm to the proximal stapled resection
margin, and 23.0 cm to the distal stapled resection margin. A focal

 

Pathology Report .. .

.n o, ~.‘v.-v. ”:4

w—xr ».‘.‘ n.2- an“: sun.- nem—isu away-Huuweewuu Juan-us - r .- r-t‘fs arms”: :avm-asziv-K'Lr-‘v \‘nﬁ‘ In“: -" .. 97"." a.

hemorrhagic lesion (2.5 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm) is present 15.0 cm distal to.the mass,
8.0 cm to the distal stapled resection margin, and 24.0 cm to the proximal
stapled resection margin. The tumor mass grossly invades into the pericolonic
fat. The remainder of_the mucosa is unremarkable. Twenty one candidate lymph
nodes are identified, the largest measuring 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm.

Representative sections of the main mass and normal colon are submitted to the
tissue bank. A representative section of the mass is submitted for GI stem
cell culture. Gross photographs are taken.

Micro 82: Distal resection margin“ 1 grag,

Micro B3: Tumor to normal mucosa, 1 frag,

Micro 84: Tumor with deepest extent of invasion, 1 fra , .

Micro B5: Representative sections of 2 frags,

Micro 136: Hemorrhagic lesion, 1 ﬁre W

Micro B7: Normal mucosa, l frag,

Micro B8 through B9: Appendix, multi ﬂags,-

Micro 810: Largest candidate lymph node bisected, 2 frags,_
Micro B11 through B17: Candidate lymph nodes, 3—4 frags ea

Micro Bl: Proximal resection margin, 2 fraisl —

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination (“gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis£es)
related thereto.

, Electronically signed on

 

 

 

Page: 2 of 2

