Surgical Pathology Report

Patient Name: Phone #: Accession #:

Med. Rec. #: Client: Taken:

DOB: (Age: Location: Received:
Gender: F Accnt: Reported:
Physician(s):

Phy Location:

Clinical History

ZED—O ~13

WW

47/ ‘7

07104112123

UUID: 70236BAA- -BADSIE- ”MA!-
TCGA DU UA- 481:8- -63F27289516e0d

iiilliiiiiiiiililliiiilliiliililiililiiiililliliilliilllliilliiilii

Braintumo, iiillllli liiilliiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Operative Diagnoses iii illiiiliiiiilliiililiiiliiillilllil llﬂilllliui:illlillllilllllllllilllll

Operation I Specimen

A: Brain tumor, biopsy

B: Brain tumor. biopsy
Pathologic Diagnosis
A. and B. Brain, tumor. biopsies: Anaplastio astrocytoma, WHO grade III (see comment).
Comment

Permanent sections conﬁrm the frozen section diagnosis and show a gemistocytic astrocytoma.
intermingled with

nodules of medium large gemistocytes are ares of tightly packed, higher-grade pleomorphic astrocytoma
nuclei with

indistinct cytoplasm. Mitotic ﬁgures are easily identified. Vascular proliferation and necrosis are not seen.
The tissue fragments are relatively small therefore a higher-grade lesion e. g glioblastoma, WHO grade
IV, cannot

be completely ruled out due to sampling phenomena. Clinical correlation is recommended.

The patient's tumor bank slide was also reviewed. Results of ancillary studies will be reported
below in

procedure addenda.

***Electronically Signed Out‘“

Senior Staff Pathologist
Procedures/Addenda
lmmunohistology
Date Ordered: Date Reported:

interpretation
The tumor cells are diffusely GFAP and p53 positive.
The lDH1 R132H mutation is negative.
The Ki-67 labeling index is up to approximately 45%.
Surgical Pathology
Page 2 of 4
Results-Comments
lmmunohistochemicai stains are performed on A2 Controls show appropriate immunoreactivity
*“Electronicaily Signed Out**"
Senior Staff Pathologist
PCR for EGFR variant Ill mutation
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
NEGATiVE- No evidence of EGFvail mutation' Is detected
Results-Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from parafﬁn tissue block

(A2)

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular target in glioblastoma because it
is amplified,

overexpressed. and/or mutated in up to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant
lll

(EGFRvIIl) Is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that is commonly expressed in
glioblastoma.

Cell culture and in vivo models of glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFvall as deﬁning prognosticaily
distinct

subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFvall has been shown to sensitize tumors
to EGFR

tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from
formalin ﬁxed,

parafﬁn embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA is then amplified using
standard PCR

technique for DNA templates. PCR products are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of
this assay

has been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic test.
This test

was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the .

as required '

by CLIA '88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the U3. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are -

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures

and/or diagnostic criteria.

***Electronicallv Signed Out**'

MGMT Promoter Methylation
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.
Results-Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor parafﬁn block (A2)
H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.
TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter have been shown to
beneﬁt
from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulﬁte
treatment of
DNA followed by real—time PCR ampliﬁcation of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences. The
analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial dilution of methylated positive control DNA into
unmethylated DNA, and was assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated
DNA. Factors
Surgical Pathology

Page 3 of 4
such as the presence of >50% non-neoplastic cells in the sample, or extensive tissue necrosis. may
preclude the
detection of methylated MGMT promoter sequences.
FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic
test. This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the '
as required

by CLIA '88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures

and/or diagnostic criteria.

mElectronically Signed Out***

IDH1IIDH2 Mutation Detection Assay

Date Ordered: Date Reported:

Interpretation

NEGATIVE - There is no evidence of lDH1 point mutation, as indicated by the absence of any nucleotide
changes in

codon 132 of the IDH1 gene compared to the electropherogram of the reference normal sample (wild
type)-

Results-Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: lDH1/2 Mutation Analysis

Test performed on DNA extracted from tumor parafﬁn block ' (A2)

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

Mutation of lDH1 occurs early in glioma progression with somatic mutations of the R132 residue of |DH1
identiﬁed in

majority (>70%) of grades II and III astrocytomas and oiigodendrogliomas, as well as in secondary GBMs
that

developed from these lower grade lesions. Mutation analysis of closely related IDH2 revealed mutations
of IDH2

residue R172, with most mutations occurring in tumors lacking lDH1 mutations. Tumors with IDH1 or
IDH2 mutations

have distinctive genetic and clinical characteristics, and patients with such tumors have a better outcome
than those

with wild type IDH genes.

Mutations in lDH1/2 are detected by DNA sequencing procedures. The limit of detection of standard
bidirectional

sequencing is approximately 20-25%. In order to increase assay sensitivity tumor enrichment must be
performed by

manual microdissection when tumor cells in the block constitute less than 50% of nucleated cells.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic
test. This test

was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the

as required by CLIA "88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by
the US Food
and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These
results are provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of
established
procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.
*“Electronically Signed Out“

Senior Staff Pathologist

[mm—Operative Consultation
A. Brain tumor, biopsy: High—grade gemistocytic astrocytoma. Frozen section and smears performed at

and results reported to the Physician of Record.
Surgical Pathology
Page 4 of 4

Senior Staff Pathologist

Gross Description

A. Brain tumor, biopsy:

CONTAINER LABEL: brain tumor.

FIXATIVE: Forrnalin. NO. PIECES: few. SIZENOL: 10 x 8 x 4 mm. CASSETTES: 2, NS.
3. Brain tumor. biopsy: CONTAINER LABEL: brain tumor.

FIXATIVE: Forrnalin. NO. PIECES: 3 pieces of brain tissue. SIZENOL: 9x8x3 mm, 0.12gm in aggregate
CASSETTES: 1, NS.

lCD-9(s): 237.5 237.5
Billing Fee Code(s): ’

Histo Data

Part A: Brain tumor, biopsy

Taken: Received:

Stalnlcnt Block Ordered Comment

FS H&E x 1 1

H&E x 1 1

TPS H&E x 1 1

EGFR vill-cuds x 1 2

mGFAP-DA x 1 2 ' Please nIn lDH1 antibody.
H&E x1 2

MGMT'curls x 1 2 Please run IDHi/2 mutatiomal a
MIB1-DA x1 2

P5300? x 1 2

Rct1 H&E x1 2

Part 3: Brain tumor, biopsy

Taken: Received:

Stalnlcnt Block Ordered Comment

H&E x1 1

Page 4 of4

 

