 

ERGICAL PATHOLOGY:

F’Rnr‘Fnl IRE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY TO:

Pre—Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post—Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Cllnlcal History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Five parts
Container labeled " ‘l - right pelvic lymph node"
has 6.0 x 4.5 x 1,6 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments
which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned
pink-yellow nodules up to 2.0 cm. The largest nodules are bisected
and submitted labeled A—B. Whole smaller nodules are submitted
labeled C.

Container labeled “”2 — left pelvic lymph node" has
4.7 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm 0 an-ye ow ibroadlpose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned pink-yellow

nodules up to 2.1 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted
labeled A. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled B-C.

Container labeled " 3 — right aortic lymph node”
has 3.2 x 2.0 x 1 .0 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments
which on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned
pink-yellow nodules up to 1.9 cm. The nodules are entirely submitted
in two cassettes.

Container labeled "—4 - left aortic lymph node“ has
4.0 x 3.1 x 1.1 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly deﬁned pink-yellow
nodules up to 1.8 cm. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted

uum:i=153£ilc2-7

/cbv0’3

 

. (yam/33

\ I [mch IWJLMM
JAM/3 . l 4”\

W - cm 4» mgmw,

5m ‘ ,WW 55%» I
m»

?33c’ [ @‘F 4'

- 733330“
isii‘fiiimm“ edacted

R
TCGA- A] - - PR “
ill ll l l ill i l l lllll l llllllll i “ll ll ll llllllllllll l lllllll lllll‘i‘l

llllllll

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
illlillli‘l‘il‘l‘h‘ll‘l‘l‘l‘llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

labeled A. Whole smaller nodules are submitted labeled 8.

Container labeled "P5 - uterus, cervix.vtubes~aﬂndy. '
ovaries" has a previoUs aterally opened moderately W» ' "" ' ‘ - ‘ ‘

uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and
cervix together weigh 96 grams and on reconstruction measure
approximately 9.1 x 5.6 x 4.2 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
tan-pink ectocervicel mucosa. The as is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of 6.5 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by
trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth and
tan—pink. The myometrium measures up to 1.6 cm and is tan-pink and
fibrotic. Virtually the entire endometrial canal is occupied by a
friable gray-tan to pink papilliferous plaque—like lesion occupying
both the anterior and posterior aspects extending to both lateral
aspects and the fundus, as well as into the lower uterine segment.
This occupies an area of approximately 8.8 x 3.5 cm. On the

posterior aspect this measures up to

0.7 cm in thickness and grossly

appears to focally extend into the wall. in the right lateral aspect

the lesion grossly appears to focally extend to within 1.1 cm of the
outer surface margin. The parametrial soft tissue on each side shows
no nodularity or gross lesion. The left fallopian tube measures 6.1

x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 5.9 x 0.5 x 0.5

cm. Each has a smooth tan-pink serosa with a tan-pink wall and a
pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 3.1 x 2.1 x 1,6 cm and has a

lobular tan-yellow outer surface with

a mottied tan-gray fibrotic

cut surface. The right ovary measures 3.6 x 1.6 x 1.0 cm and has a

lobular tan-yellow outer surface with

a motﬂed tan-gray to pink

ﬁbrotic cut surface. Also received in the same container is a 2.1 x
1.5 x 0.3 cm aggregate of friable granular gray-tan to pink apparent
lesional tissue. Also receive" ‘- ”w some container are two tissue

cassettes each labeled '
are submitted labeled as follows: A —

Representative sections
anterior cervix: B - posterior

cervix; C - lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-F -
anterior endomyometrium; G—K - posterior endomyometrium; L-M - left

lateral endomyometrium; N—O - right

lateral endomyometrium; P—S —

fundic endomyometrium; T - left parametrium; U - right parametrium;

V — left adnexa; W — right adnexa; X —
fragments.

.-

Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis

separate lesional tissue

Lymph nodes, right pelvic area. regional dissection:

Number of lymph nodes identiﬁed: 5

Number of lymph nodes demonstrating metastatic malignancy: 0 (0/5)

Lymph nodes. left pelvic area, regional dissection:

Number of lymph nodes identiﬁed: 5

Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: 0 (0/5)
Lymph nodes. right aortic area. regional dissection:

Number of lymph nodes identiﬁed: 2

Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: 0 (0/2)
Lymph nodes. left aortic area, regional dissection:

Number of lymph nodes identified: 7

Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic malignancy: 0 (0/7)
Uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy and

bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:
Endometrial adenocarcinoma.

Pair/2°“?

Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma with ‘
serous areas.
,Histologic grade: Grade 3
Tumor site: Entire endometrial cavity
,Tumor size: Approximately 8.8 x 3.5 cm as measured grossly
Myometn‘al invasion: Family present, invading approximately 0.3
cm into a 1.6 cm thick
myometrlum (much less than 50% of the myometn'al thickness)
Extent of tumor: Extends into lower uterine segment. but does not
involve endocervlcal
mucosa or stroma.
Involvement of other organs: Not identiﬁed
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present (see comment)
Parametrial tissues: Right and left are both negative
Other:
Ectocerle:
Negative for viral changes, dysplasia and malignancy.
Endocervix:
Intense chronic endocervlcitis.
Negative for glandular dysplasia.
Endometrium:
See above.
Myometrium:
See above.
Serosa:
Negative for endometriosls and malignancy.
Ovaries:
Negative for endometrlosis and malignancy.
Fallopian tubes:
Negative for endometriosis and malignancy.

Stage:
pT1a (FIGO LA) No PAS 9
CPT:

Comments

The amount of carcinoma is impressive. Much of this is present as
sheets of tumor and overt back-to-back oval and tubular glands along
with nondescript areas of cribriforming. There are areas of (benign)
squamoid metaplasia. as expected in endometrioid forms of
endometrial adenocorcinoma. Because of the ﬁndings noted below.
the grade assigned is a 3.

in addition, within the myometrium there are multiple areas of
lymphovascular space invasion identiﬁed, best seen in sections SJ
and K. These are discrete nests of tumor surrounded by what appear
to be endothelial—lined spaces. One of these nests is within vessels
located approximately 5 mm (0.5 cm) from the serosal surface.

Finally, in order to more fully assess the presence of serous
differentiation. lmmunohistochemical stains are performed on block
50, with the following results:

P53: positive (extensively).

ER: positive

WT1: negative

The features are most consistent with an endometrioid adenocarcinorna
with presence of serous differentiation. P335

At my request. the case has also been reviewed by Dr. _

serq.

 

 

who concurs with the ﬁndings.

This test has been ﬁnalized at the — "

This test was dn-Icﬂhl‘ﬁr' and in: narfnrmance characteristics

determined by it has not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The

FDA has determined that such clearance or approvai is not necessary.

This test is used for clinical purposes. it should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988
(CLlA-Ba) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.

pageLi-oF‘t

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

