Date Coll: -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Lymph node, L4, biopsy
B. Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy
C. Level 10 right lung
D. Subcarinal right lung
E. Right lower lobe and middle lobe

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Right lung mass.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

nodes, L4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy. -

m nodes, R4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section
labeled "L4 (right lung)" and consists of a 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.4
cm. aggregate of gray to tan tissue fragments entirely frozen as
frozen section AFS1.
B. Received fresh labeled "B. R4 (right lung)" are 4
fragments of black to pink tissue measuring in aggregate of
2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. entirely frozen as frozen section BFSl. The

1 piece is bisected.
- C. Received fresh labeled "level 10" is a slightly

fragmented and cauterized, 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. gray black
tissue in keeping with lymph node which is bisected and entirely
submitted in one block. AS-1.

D. Received fresh labeled "subcarinal" are three irregular
fragmented, gray-black tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring
up to 2.0 cm. greatest dimension. The specimens are entirely
submitted in four blocks as labeled. AS-4
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1, 2 - One bisected node per cassette; 3, 4 -
bisected largest node (1/2 per cassette).

E. Received fresh labeled "right lower lobe and middle

lobe" is a 400 gram, 14.5 x 12.0 x 7.5 cm. lobectomy
specimen consisting of a portion of right middle lobe measuring 10.0
x 5.8 x 3.5 cm. and the entire lower lobe. A 1.5 cm. in length, 1.4
x 1.0 cm. in diameter bronchial stump is present. The pleura is
smooth to slightly scabrous, tan-pink with a few tan—pink fibrous
adhesions. A palpable peribronchial mass is evident. The overlying
pleura is inked black. On sectioning, there is a moderately
well-circumscribed, 9.0 x 6.4 x 5.8 cm. glistening to focally chalky
tan—white tumor mass which focally abutts the bronchial stump (see
block 3). The tumor also extends to within 0.2 cm. of the inked
pleural surface. The tumor, located within the middle lobe grossly

extends to involve a matted group of perihilar lymph nodes (see
block 7). A portion of the tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma
are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The remaining
parenchyma is spongiform, red-purple without additional mass lesion
or abnormality. Five rubbery gray-black perihilar tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.2 cm. in greatest
dimension are recovered. Representative sections are submitted in
12 blocks as labeled. RS-12.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Brochial margin; 2 — vascular margins; 3 - tumor
abutting bronchial stump; 4, 5 - tumor to inked pleural surface; 6 -
tumor to normal; 7 - tumor to matted perihilar lymph nodes; 8, 9 -
random from remainder of specimen; 10 - representative middle lobe
with pleural adhesions; 11 - four whole nodes; 12 - one bisected

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A, B, C, D. Microscopic examination of the separately
submitted lymph nodes reveals benign lymph node tissue with
no metastatic tumor identified.
E. Microscopic examination of the right lower and middle
lobe lung resection reveals -
Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma with some minimal
glandular differentiation, predominantly nonkeratinized.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor is 9 cm in greatest dimension and
involves a major bronchus (pT2).
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.
Direct extension of tumor: Into the bronchus, no diagnostic pleural
invasion identified.
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Present.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Tumor is identified in one of seven
hilar lymph nodes. This tumor focus measures 1 cm in greatest
dimension and appears to represent some
direct extension of tumor into the hilar
lymph node, but also shows lymphatic
space invasion in this area. All of the
separate lymph nodes are negative for
tumor (pN1).
Distant metastasis (pM): Could not evaluate, pMX.
Other findings: Some intrapulmonary spread of tumor is identified
slide E8 with tumor within pulmonary parenchyma and lymphatic spaces
in the lung well away from the primary tumor. Also areas of
emphysema are noted and chronic bronchitis and a
focal area of pulmonary infarction versus possible
focal organizing pneumonia is identified in slide
E9. Some pulmonary hemorrhage and edema is noted
in the middle lobe in slide E10.

3x4, 14x2, 5x1

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node, L4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
Lymph nodes, level 10, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
Lymph nodes, subcarinal, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

U001

E.

Lung,

right lower lobe and middle lobe, excision:

Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, tumor size
9 cm

One of seven hilar lymph nodes is positive for squamous cell
carcinoma (1/7).

Lymphatic space invasion and intrapulmonary tumor spread
identified.

The pleura is negative for tumor, the resection margins are
negative for tumor.

See microscopic description for template details.

——— End Of Report ---

