 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Brain tumor: anaplastic astrocytoma, grade III of IV (WHO scale),
see microscopic description, see comment

2. Brain tumor: anaplastic astrocytoma, grade III of IV (WHO scale),
see microscopic description, see comment

Comment:
The proliferation index is within the expected range for an anaplastic
ast III of IV (WHO scale).Selected slides were reviewed

by — who concurs with the presence of malignancy in this
t

ma

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Microscopic Description:
The tumor consists of a moderately pleomorphic and densely cellular

proliferation of astrocytes. There are few scattered mitoses. There
is no endothelial proliferation or necrosis. Immunohistochemistry for
the proliferation antigen Ki67 was performed as follows: Four 250 x

250 micron fields were counted and the percentage of labeled nuclei
determined. Over 1000 cells were counted. The proliferation index
ranged from 4.3% to 12.1% with an overall average of 9.5%.

Section Diagnosis:

1. Brain tumor: Infiltrative glioma, no definitive high—grade
features identified on representative frozen section

Clinical History and Diagnosis:
Image guided right side craniotomy resection of mass

Source of Specimen:
1: Brain tumor
2: Brain tumor

  

, in a specimen container labeled
with the patient's name and "#1 brain tumor", is a 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm
aggregate of soft tan—pink tissue. Approximately 60% of the specimen is
submitted for frozen section analysis. Touch preparations are made. The

remainder of the specimen is entirely submitted in 2 cassettes as
follows:

A. frozen section control
B. remainder of specimen

2. Brain tumor: Received in formalin, in a specimen container labeled
with the patient's name and "#2 brain tumor", is a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm
fragment of soft tan—pink tissue. The entire specimen is submitted in
one cassette.

tology Laboratory

Immunohistochemistry Notes
1. Quantification o istry assay for ER and PR studies

od of — Applied Immunohistochemistry,

2. Hercept Test (DakoCytomation) Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.
Interpretation foll rer' s rec

EGFR pharme Clone 2—18C9 Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.
Interpretation foll turer' s

3. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent
(ASR).

These tests were developed and their
determined by the Clinical Laboratory of
Hospital.

They have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.

