 

Date Of ProCedur e:

i Neck Date of Receipt:
. , ind Neck Date of Report
Account it:
Billing Type:

Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
Left lobe- paplliary carcinoma. UUID: 2F03033A- cnsd- JEAE- sou Esncaauamd

Specimens Submitted:

TCGA- DJ- ASUQ ~91A- PR

Illllllllllllllll||||l||llIllllllll|l||||||||||IIIIIIRllellllllclllecjl

Ill
1‘ Helmet" “SS“ ‘ m IIllilllIIIillliIIIHIlllilllillllllllllllllllllllllilllllllll

2: Tissue near the left upper pole
3: Left paratracheal tissue (fs)

4: Left superior mediastinal tissue
5: Right paratracheai tissue
6: Total thyroidectomy

 

DIAGNOSIS: ,
1. Pretracheal tissue; biopsy: ’00 O 3

-Benignfibroadiposetissue CdfC/noﬁla Pap Mt‘afq W( CC/‘
2. 1" th i ft i ;bi :

-éiilg‘iiﬁifoidisiue"”°'”°° “’5’ 384443

Silo“ thorom, NOS

3. Left paratracheai tissue (fs):

Part# 3 (373’61 $17,421)

Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 3
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.5cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.3 cm.
Extranodai extension is not identiﬁed
COmment: Three lymph nodes are identiﬁed on the permanent section of the frozen section residue; however. only one.
lymph node is present on the original frozen section slide.

 

Left superior mediastinal tissue:
Part # 4
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
‘ Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
4 Number of lymph nodes with. metastatic disease: 1
’Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.15cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.02 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

Right paratracheai tissue:
Part # 5

 

Page 1 of 4

“of“

Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.6cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.2 cm.
Extranodai extension is not identified

 

6. Totaithyroidectomy.
Part# 6

Tumor Type: I , .
Papillary microcarcinoma with focal tail cell and columnar cell features 721/ ad 2 b” '2» M 35 //“J

Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Location:
Left lobe «

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 0.8 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
None Identiﬁed

Blood Vessel invasion:
Areas suggestive but not diagnostic

Extrathyrold Extension:
invadeszperithyroidal fibroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity: .
Microscopic foci present .
Papillary micrccarcinoma with sclerosis, cystic change and squamous metaplasia. 0.6 cm in greatest dimension

(right lobe)

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):

Not identified
Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

No abnormalities identified
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identiﬁed

 

i ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMiNATiON OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

“'" Report Electronically Signed Out "'

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

 

Page 2 of 4

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description: ,_
G

1). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Pro—tracheal tissue" and consists of an irregular fragment tan soft tissue
measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

 

Summary of sections:
U-— undesignated

2). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Tissue near the left upper pole" and consists of an irregular fragment tan soft
tissue measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U-- undesignated

. .9". 4.

3) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section and is labeled ”left paratracheai tissue". it consists of a portion of ten soft
tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
FSC—frozen section control ._ -. .

4) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left superior medlastinai tissue“, and consists of a fragment of tan soft tissue
measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:
U — undesignated -
a ,_._

5) The specimen is' received in formalin, labeled "Right paratracheai tissue", and consists of a fragment of tan soft tissue
measuring 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:
U - undesignated
- s

6) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Total thyroidectomy", and consists of a thyroid weighing 179. A stitch marks the left
lobe of thyroid. The right lobe measures 4.3 x 2.3 x 1.8 cm. the left lobe measures 4.1 x 2.1 x 1.3 cm and the isthmus measures
2.1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Theexternai surface is covered by a thin fibrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black,
and the anterior is inked-blue. Sectioning reveals a tan ﬁrm nodule. The nodule is located in the superior pole of the left lobe,
measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0L6’cm', and is not encapsulated. Also, identified is a cystic odule located in the middle portion of the right
lobe, measuring 0.6 x05 x 0.4 cm. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red bro n and beefy. Representative sections of the
specimen are submitted for - The remaining tissue is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

N - nodule in the left lobe, entirely submitted

CN - cystic nodule in the right lobe, entirely submitted
RL - remaining right lobe

LL - remaining left lobe

IS - isthmus

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: Pretracheal tissue

 

Page 3 of 4

I...“ ,

uivun ueut. One

1 U

Part 2: Tissue near the left upper pole

Block Sect. Site
1 U

Part 3: Left paratracheai tissue (fs)

Block Sect. Site
1 fsc "

' PC:

1

P03
1

Part 4: Left ‘s‘ﬁperlor mediastinal tissue

Block Sect. Site

1 U

Part 5: Right paratracheai tissue
Block S’ect. Site

1 U

Part 6: Total thyroldectomy

Block Sect. Site
2 CN

1 l8

4 LL

2 N

3 RL

Intraogeratlve Consultation:

PC:
1

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

3. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Left paratracheai tissue (is): Metastatic carcinoma (1/1) a

Permanent Diagnosis. See final

 

Page 4 of 4

END OF REPORT

