/cb-w»3
“gamma/Wm wriwmﬁ‘d. Ni" ”VJ/5
5m: ;qu‘wv C54” ,M

 

 

/ 3/)1/1/
UUID:331CD473-0D98-414E-BBIB-09037E1BF43E
TCGA-Eo-A3KX-elA-PR Redacted
Illllllllllillllll||||||||||I||||l|lll|| II “III llil ll

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

 

s n e
1. Lymph-Node: Right Pelvic.
2. Uterus: Uterus. cervix. BSO fresh

 

Diagnoelg
1. Lymph nodes. right pelvic. dissection:
- Three lymph nodes. negative for carcinoma (0/3)

2. Uterus. cervix. bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:

- ENDOMETRIAL ADENOCARCINOMA, ENDOMETRIOID TYPE, FIGO GRADE 3/3. (see synoptic report)
- Myometrial invasion present (inner halt)
- Lymphovascuiar invasion not identiﬁed
- Cervix. negative for carcinoma, but tumour involves lower uterine segment

Other: _

- Uterine leiomyomata

- Lott fallopian tube with paratubal cysts

- Right fallopian tube with no histopathologic abnormality
- Bilateral ovariee with no histopethologic abnormalitiy

W
Specimen: Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube
Procedure: Simple hysterectomy
Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
Lymph Node Sampling: Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
Specimen Integrity: intact hysterectomy specimen
Tumor Site: Posterior endometnum
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 7 cm
Histologlc Type: Endometrioid adenocarclnoma. not otherwise characterized

 

 

Iliiil’ Pmm?

 

— Surgical Pathology Consultation Report “

Histologic Grade: FIGO grade 3
Myometrlai invasion: Present
Myometrial thickness: 26 mm
Less than 50% myometrial invasion
involvement of Cervix: Not involved
Extent of Involvement of Other Organs:
Right ovary not involved
Left ovary not Involved
Right fallopian tube not Involved
Leftfalioplan tube not involved

 

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT1a (IA): Tumor limited to endometrium or Invades less than 1/2 of the myometrlum
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

Pelvic lymph nodes examined: 3
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes Involved: o,
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: Uterine leiomyometa

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Cll i to
ENDOMETRIAL CA

s D i n
1. The specimen container ls labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph node: Right pelvic“. The specimen consists
of a piece of ﬁbroadlpose tissue measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. Within the tissue are 3 possible lymph nodes that range
from 0.4 to 2.2 cm. Representative sections. 22 submitted in toto:
1A 2 lymph nodes
18 1 lymph node

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Uterus, cervix. BSO fresh“. The specimen consists
of a total hysterectomy specimen with attached bilateral salpingo-oophonectomy. The specimen has a fresh weight of
135.1 g. The uterus and cervix measures 9.3 cm S! x 6.5 cm ML x 3.5 cm AP. The cervix has a maximum diameter of
2.0 cm. The external os measures 0.8 cm and is oval. The right fallopian tube measures 4.5 x 0.3 cm. The right ovary
measures 2.7 x 1.7 x 0.5 cm. The left fallopian tube measures 5.0 x 0.3 cm. The left ovary measures 2.9 x 0.1 x 0.7 cm.

The uterine serosa demonstrates a pink-tan glistening appearance with some ﬁbrous adhesions noted on the posterior
aspect. The right-sided peri-adnexal tissue shows gross hemorrhage. The exocerle Is pink-tan with local areas of bright
orange discoloration. The anterior aspect shows very little squamous epithelium. There Is tumor protruding through the
as. The endocervical canal measures 3.7 cm in length. The endometrlal cavity measures 3.5 cm SI x 5.2 cm from cornua
to comue. The endornetrlum is completely involved on the posterior aspect by a friable. papillary tan tumor that measures
7.0 cm SI x 5.2 cm from cornua to cornua. The anterior endometrium has a trabeculated appearance with a focal area of
tumor on the left lateral aspect The tumor has a maximum depth of 2.2 cm, extends to the outer half of the myometrium
and comes to within 0.7 cm of the posterior serosa. The myometrium is unremarkable. Both fallopian tubes show fimbria.
The outer surface of the ovaries Is smooth. The cut surface of each ovary demonstrates an unremarkable parenchyma.
Multiple pieces of tissue are stored frozen. Representative sections, ﬂmbn‘a and remainder of fallopian tubes and ovaries
in toto:

2A-28 anterior cervix to anterior lower uterine segment, bisected

2C—2D full thickness sections anterior endomyometrium

2E-2F posterior cervix to posterior lower uterine segment. bisected

 

. Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

26-2l-i full thickness section posterior endomyometrium. bisected
2I-2J full thickness section posterior endomyometrium bisected.
2K right ilmbrla longitudinally sectioned

2L right fallopian tube. serially sectioned

2M-2N right ovary

20 left flmbrle, longitudinally sectioned

2P left fallopian tube, serially sectioned

20-2R leftovary

 

 

Page J of:

