    

A HOLOGIC IAGNOSIS
Adnexa, left, salpingo-oophorectomy:

Ovary with serous carcinoma, high~grade; see comment.

. Fallopian tube with no significant pathologic abnormality.

. Adnexa, right, salpingo-oophorectomy:

Ovary with serous carcinoma, high—grade; see comment.

Fallopian tube with serous carcinoma, high-grade; see comment.

. Uterus and cervix, total abdominal hysterectomy:

. Cervix with no significant pathologic abnormality.

. Uterus with:

- Inactive endometrium with benign polyp.

- Myometrium with leiomyoma.

— Serosa with no significant pathologic abnormality.

D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, biopsy: No tumor identified in nine iymph nodes (0/9).
E. Lymph nodes, right common iliac, biopsy: No tumor identified in six lymph nodes
(0/6).

F. Lymph nodes, right periaortic, biopsy: No tumor identified in four lymph nodes
(0/4).

G. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, biopsy: No tumor identified in nine lymph nodes (0/9).
H. Lymph nodes, left common iliac, biopsy: No tumor identified in two lymph nodes
(0/2).

Page 1 of5

.>

I. Lymph nodes, left periaortic, hippsy: No tumor identified in one lymph node (0/1).
J. Omentum,.biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue with no significant pathologic abnormality,

no tumor.
K. Omentum, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue with no significant pathologic abnormality,

no tumor.
L. Omentum, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue with no significant pathoiogic abnormality,

notumor.
M. Sigmoid adhesion, biopsy: Inflamed granulation tissue consistent with adhesions,

no tumor.

COMMENT:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

- Location of tumor: Biiateral.

- Type of tumor: Serous.

- Grade of tumor: 3.

— Size of tumor: Left ovary and tube: 15 cm; right ovary and tube: 12 cm.

— Surface of ovary: Smooth.

- Condition of capsule: Intact.

- Cut surface: Solid and cystic, mainly solid.

- Necrosis: Focal.

- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not identified.
Sites of metastases in pelvis: Faiiopian tube.

- Size of largest pelvic metastasis is 0.5 cm.

- Pelvic lymph nodes: Negative.

    

ota number of nodes examined: 26.
- Sites of metastases in abdomen: None.
- Para-aortic lymph nodes: Negative.
- Total number of nodes examined: 5.
- Peritoneal cytology: Positive (Cytology CoPath accession number:—
- Other findings: None.
- FIGO stage: IIC.
—AJCC sta e: T2cNOMX.
and I ave reviewed the case (parts A and B) and agree with
the above diagnoses.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Left adnexa (FS)
B:Right adnexa (fresh)
C:Uterus and cervix (fresh)
D:Right pelvic lymph node
E:Right common iliac lymph nodes
F :Right periaortic lymph nodes
G:l.eft pelvic lymph nodes
Hzteft common iliac lymph nodes
I:i_eft periaortic lymph nodes

J:Omentum #1
Page 2 of 5

K:Omentum #2
L:Omentum #3
M:Sigmoid adhesion

Intraoperative Diagnosis
FSl (A) Left adnexa, salpingo-oophorectomy: Adenocarcinoma, favor ovarian primary. (Dr.

B. Right adnexal saliinii-iiiiiiiiiiﬁ Grossly similar to left ovarian tumor. Gross examination
only. (
C. Uterus and ceiii, hysterectomy: Endometrial polyp. Gross examination only. (Dr.-

Clinical Histor
The patient is a
have an elevated CA—125 at 3,410.
chemotherapy and surgery in
abdominal hysterectomy.

  
   
 

(32, P2, with bilateral 10—cm adnexal masses. - is noted to
also has a history of right breast cancer, status post
undergoes bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and total

Gross Description
The specimen is received in 13 parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-M are received in formalin
Part A, labeled "left adnexa," consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube weighing 327.5 grams.
The ovary is replaced by a mass and measures 15 x 10.5 x 5.5 cm, and the fallopian tube measures
10 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. Gross photographs are taken. The external surface of the
ovary is noted to be smooth, tan-white—gray and shiny. No surface adhesions, solid tumor or
papillary growth, or implants are noted. The tumor capsule is intact. Upon sectioning, the cut
surface of this nodule appears to be yellow—orange. Sectioning of the tumor reveals 70% solid
growth with 30% cystic area. The cystic area is multiioculated and contains yellow serous fluid. The
solid portion of the ovary is yellow, lobuiated, firm, with punctate areas of hemorrhage. The cystic
rea is also noted to contain some areas of hemorrhage. The interior of the cyst is noted to contain
papillary excrescences. A portion of the specimen is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, with
the remnant submitted in cassette A14. The attached fallopian tube and fimbriae appear grossly

 

 

 

unremarkable. However, a small, white—tan nodule measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm is visible on the
surface of the mesosalpinx. An additional nodule measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm is palpable within the
mesosaipinx. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes A1-A8: Representative sections of tumor (solid)

Cassettes A9—A10: Representative sections of tumor (cystic).

Cassette A11: Fimbria.

Cassette A12: Fallopian tube.

Cassette A13: Mesosalpinx, with two nodules.

Cassette A14: Frozen section remnant.

Part B, labeled "right adnexa," consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube weighing 296 grams.
The ovary is replaced by a mass and measures 12 x 9.5 x 6.5 cm. The tube measures 9 cm in length
x 0.5 cm in diameter. A portion of the specimen is sent for Oncotech, and sample tissue is taken for
ovarian tumor banking. The surface of the ovary is noted to be tan—white—gray and smooth, without
adhesions, solid tumor, papillary growth or implants. The tumor capsule appears to be intact.
Sectioning of the ovary reveals an 80% solid, 20% cystic mass. The solid areas are tan-white~yellow
and firm/rubbery, and also contain soft and papillary areas. Small areas of hemorrhage are noted in
the solid areas. No obvious areas of necrosis are noted. The cystic areas within the tumor contain
papillary excrescences and a yellow serous fluid. The cystic area is noted to be unilocular. The
fimbriae are grossly unremarkable. However, approximately 2.2 cm from the fimbriae, a hard nodule
is palpable within the fallopian tube, measuring 1 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. Representative sections are

submitted as follows:
Page 3 of 5

Cassettes Bl—BS: Representative sections of tumor (solid).

Cassette 87: Representative sections of tumor (cystic).

Cassette BS: Fimbriae.

Cassette 89: Fallopian tube, including nodule (entirely submitted).

Part C, labeled "uterus, cervix," consists of a uterus weighing 72 grams and measuring 4.5 cm cornu
to cornu, 9 cm superior to inferior, 3.5 cm anterior to posterior. The uterine cavity sounds to 7.5 cm.
The cervix measures 2.6 cm in length x 2.5 cm in width. The as is pinpoint and 0.3 cm in diameter.
The anterior surface is inked blue; the posterior surface is inked black. The specimen is bivalved.
Normal tissue is taken for ovarian tumor banking. The serosa is tan-pink and smooth, with no
masses or nodules identified. The ectocervix is grossly unremarkable, with the exception of some
brown discoloration. A tan-brown polyp is seen at the uterine fundus on the posterior side, slightly to
the right, measuring 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.3 cm. Serial sectioning of the uterine body perpendicular to the .
long axis reveals a single, tan-white, homogeneous, rubbery, round leiomyoma measuring 2.7 x 2.7 x l
2.5 cm. No areas of hemorrhage or necrosis are noted within the leiomyoma. Representative

sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette C1: Anterior cervix.

Cassette C2: Posterior cervix.

Cassette C3: Anterior lower uterine segment.

Cassette C4: Posterior lower uterine segment.

Cassette C5: Anterior endometrium.

Cassette C6: Posterior endometrium.

Cassette C7: Posterior myometrium.

Cassettes C8~C11: Fundic polyp, entirely submitted.

Cassettes C12—C13: Representative sections of leiomyomad-

Part D is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," an consists of multiple bloody, soft, firm,
brown-yellow—tan tissue fragments measuring 6 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. Nine candidate lymph

nodes are found ranging between 0.5 to 2.7 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassettes [31—02: One bisected lymph node, entirely submitted.

Cassette D3: One bisected lymph node, entirely submitted

Zassette D4: Seven candidate lymph nodes.

Remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.-

Part E is additionally labeled "right common iliac lymph nodes," and consists of multiple bloody,

 

 

yellow~tan, soft, firm tissue fragments measuring 5.2 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm in aggregate. Six candidate
lymph nodes are found ranging from 0.8 to 1.6 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassette E1: Five candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette E2: One bisected lymph node.

Remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.

Part F is additionally labeled "right periaortic lymph node,” and consists of multiple bloody,
yellow—tan, soft, firm tissue fragments measuring 3.5 x 2 x 1 cm in aggregate. Five candidate lymph
nodes are found ranging from 0.7 to 1.5 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassette F1: One bisected lymph node.

Cassette F2: Four candidate lymph nodes.

Remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container.

Part G is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes," and consists of multiple bloody, yellow—tan,
soft, firm tissue fragments measuring 6.7 x 4.5 x 2 cm in aggregate. Nine candidate lymph nodes are
found ranging from 0.5 to 2.4 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassettes 61—62: One bisected lymph node.

Cassette (33: Five candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette G4: Three candidate lymph nodes.

Remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container. -

Part H is additionally labeled "left common iliac lymph nodes," and consists of multiple bloody,

Page 4 of 5

yellow—tan, soft, firm tissue fragments measuring 3.2 x 2.9 x 1.2 cm in aggregate. Two candidate
lymph nodes are found ranging from 0.5 to 1.4 cm. They are entirely submitted in cassette H1. The
remaining fatty tissue is returned to the container. -)

Part I is additionally labeled "left periaortic lymph nodes," and consists of multiple bloody,
yellow—tan, soft, firm tissue fragments measuring 2.8 x 2 x 0.7 cm in aggregate. One candidate
lymph node is found and is entirely submitted in cassette I1. The remaining fatty tissue is returned

to the container. H

Part J is additiona y a eled "omentum #1,“ and consists of a single soft, firm, roughly rectangular
sheet of yellow fatty tissue measuring 15 x 7 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is palpated and is serially
sectioned at 1-cm intervals. There are no lesions, nodules or candidate lymph nodes found.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 31-32. -

Part K is additionally labeled "omentum #2,“ and consists of a single soft, firm, roughly rectangular
sheet of yellow fatty tissue measuring 12.5 x 9 x 1.6 cm. The specimen is palpated and is serially
sectioned at 1-cm intervals. There are no lesions, nodules or candidate lymph nodes found.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes K1—K2.

Part L is additionally labeled "omentum #3," and consists of a single soft, firm, roughly rectangular
sheet of yellow fatty tissue measuring 13 x 11 x 1 cm. The specimen is palpated and serially
sectioned at 1-cm intervals. No lesions, nodules or candida mph nodes are found.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes L1—L2. (ﬂ

Part M is additionally labeled "sigmoid adhesion," and consis s of two firm, irregular, bloody red
tissue fragme asuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in
cassette M1. ﬂ

Diagnosis base on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending
pathologist following review of all atholo slides.

   

     

 

