SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-ldentified Specimen Code: -

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: BRONCHUS lNTERMEDlUS
LYMPH NODE

Part B: RIGHT PNEUMONECTOMY
Part C: FIRST R|B

Part D: 10R

Part E: 11R

Part F: 12R

Part G: 4R

Part H: PERlPHRENlC LYMPH NODE
Part I: 7

Final Diagnosis
1. Bronchus intermedius lymph nodes, excision (A) ~ invasive squamous cell carcinoma.

2. Right lung, pneumonectomy (B) - Invasive squamous cell carcinoma (see comment).
~ Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in peribrcnchial lymph nodes.

- Giant cell reaction to suture material consistent with prior surgery.

- Centrilobular emphysema.

— Adhered diaphragmatic skeletal muscle with no significant pathologic changes.

3. First rib, excision (C) - Bone with no significant pathologic changes.

4. Lymph nodes, 10R, 11R, 12R, 4R, periphreniclymph node, #7, excision (D I) Lymph nodes;
negative for neoplasm -. »

 

Page 1 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
Tumor Location: Right hilum.

Tumor Size: 3 cm in greatest dimension.

Vascular invasion: Negative

Lymphatic invasion: Not identified.

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Not applicable.

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): p stage ”A (Tib Ni M0)

lntraogerative Diagnosis:
A. Positive for squamous cell carcinoma

B. Proximal bronchial margin, negative for malignancy

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA

 

Page 2 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "bronchus intermedlus lymph node" is one tan—
pink nodule consistent with a lymph node measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. it is entirely submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as FSA1.

B. Received fixed is a specimen labeled "right pneumonectomy" is a right lung that weighs 329 grams,
and measures 18 x 12.5 x 4 cm. The anatomy of the lung is distorted from a previous surgical
procedure probably a middle lobectomy, as the middle lobe can not be identified. There is also a line of
staples with adhesions from the previous procedure and this area is adhered to skeletal muscle that
measures 4 x 6 cm. A firm white tumor measuring in greatest dimension 3 cm is present in the hilar
bronchus, with multiple matted lymph nodes near it. The tumor is 1.5 cm fro the bronchial margin. The
remainder of the uninvolved lung parenchyma shows mucus plugging. There are multiple lymph nodes in
the perihilar soft tissue. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 81 for frozen section true
bronchial margin, 82 frozen section not true margin of bronchus, B3 bronchus adjacent to margin, B4
vascular margin, B5-B12 tumor entirely blocked in with lymph nodes, normal lung (black ink pleural
surface), B13 upper lobe, Bt4 lower lobe, B15 adhered skeletal muscle, B16 one lymph node, B17 one
lymph node, B18 four possible lymph nodes, B19 one lymph node.

C. Received fresh'labeled "first rib" is a specimen consisting of three fragments of rib measuring in
aggregate 16 x 1 x 1 cm. The bone is unremarkable. Representative section is submitted after decal in
C1. . . .

D. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "10R" are three irregular segments of anthracotic nodules
ranging in size from 0.1 to 0,7 cm in greatest dimension. The nodules are totally submitted as follows:
C1 two nodules, C2 one nodule.

E. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "11R" are multiple anthracotic nodules aggregating to 0.7 x
0.7 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in one cassette.

F. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "12R" is a fragmented anthracotic nodule measuring 1 x 0.7 X
0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in one cassette.

G. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "4R" is an anthracotic nodule measuring 1.3 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm.
The nodule is totally submitted in one cassette.

H. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "paraphrenic lymph node" is an anthracotic nodule with
attached adipose tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The nodule is totally submittedin one
cassette. ‘

I. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "#7" is an anthracotic nodule with attached adipose tissue
measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The nodule is totally submitted in one cassette.‘

 

Page 3 of 3

