UUID :ADGBZNSG; BZCB-49AB-A994-7927688C9523
TCGA-v1-Aswv-oIA-PR e acted
||||l||||||||||||||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

WW ”Mame amiss

5 ﬁﬂmttbiqﬁw Ci
(yo aisle} ibi

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph nodes, right pelvis, dissection: No carcinoma in six lymph nodes (0/6).

B. Lymph nodes. left pelvis, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma in one of four lymph
nodes (1/4).

C. Prostate and seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy:
- Prostate:

1. Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 4+5=9, with extra-prostatic extension;
see comment.

2. Stromal hypertrophy.
- Seminal vesicles: Right seminal vesicle involved by prostatic
adenocarcinoma; see comment.

COMMENT:
Synoptic Comment for Prostate Tumors

- Type of tumor: Small acinar adenocarcinoma.

- Location of tumor: Left mid gland, slides 03- C12, C22; left base, slide C20; right posterior mid
gland slides C8, C21.

- Estimated volume of tumor: » 7.9 cubic cm.

~ Gleason score: 4+5; primary pattern 4, secondary pattern 5.

- Estimated volume > Gleason pattern 3: >90%. (only a minor component of the tumor is Gleason

pattern 3).

- Involvement of capsule: Tumor invades capsule on left posterior quadrant (slides C11-C12).

- Extraprostatlc extension: Present, limited in extent.

- Margin status for tumor: Negative.

- Margin status for benign prostate glands: Benign glands present at inked excision margins; left
apex, slide C2 and right and left base, slides C16-C17.

- High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN): Present; focally.

 

 

- Tumor involvement of seminal vesicle: Tumor Invades into the muscular wall of the right seminal
vesicle; slide C21.
- Perineural Infiltration: Present.
- Lymph node status: Positive;
- Total number of positive nodes: 1.
- Total number of nodes examined: 10.
- Size of largest metastasis in node: 0.5 mm.
- Extranodal extension: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT3bN1.

 

has reviewed slides C11 and C21 and agrees with the diagnoses.

 

Specimen(s) Received

A:nght pelvic lymph nodes

BzLeft pelvic lymph nodes
C:Prostate & seminal vesicles (fresh)

Clinical History

The patient is a , -... .ud man with a history of prostate carcinoma, Gleason grade 4/5, clinical stage
T3aNxMO. Review of the electronic medical records ’ reveals an elevated PSA of
8.04, which led to subsequent ultrasound-guided needle mm hlnpsies of the prostate at an outside
facility, which were reviewed at in consultation . Subsequent ultrasound performed
by 3 reveals a large left posterior base nodule suspicious for extracapsular extension. The
patient now undergoes robot-assisted radical prostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in three parts, all labeled with the patient's name and unit number. Parts A
and B are received in formalin, while Part C is received fresh.

Part A, additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes,” consists of multiple, small, soft, irregular,
yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty tissue fragments (3.5 x 2.5 x 07 cm in aggregate). Careful examination reveals

six, soft to firm, yellow-tan lymph node candidates (0.3 cm-1.5 cm). The entire specimen is submitted
as follows:

Cassette A1: One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette A2: One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette A3: Two lymph node candidates, intact.
Cassette A4: Two lymph node candidates, intact. *
Cassette A5: Entire fibrofatty remnant.

Part B, additionally labeled “left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of a single, irregular segment of 500: to
ﬁrm, yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (6 x 2.5 x 1 cm). Careful examination reveals five soft yellow-tan
lymph node candidates (0.4 cm-3 cm). The entire specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassettes B1-BZ: One lymph node candidate, bisected.

Cassette 53: One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette 34: Three lymph node candidates, intact.
Cassette BS: Entire fibrofatty remnant.

Part C, additionally labeled "prostate and seminal vesicles," consists of a single, intact radical
prostatectomy (55 gm; 4 cm from apex to base x 5 cm in width x 4 cm from anterior to posterior) with
an attached right seminal vesicle bundle and a detached left seminal vesicle/yes deferens bundle.

GROSS PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: There Is a single, poorly deﬁned, irregular, ﬁrm, white-tan mass (1.5
x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. slices 6-8, cassettes C11-C12). The tumor abuts the capsule in multiple foci and abuts
the inked proximal base margin (adjacent to bladder margin) and demonstrates possible extra-capsular

extension in the posterior base margin (adjacent to left seminal vesicle/vas deferens junction). No
other masses are identified..

The remaining peripheral zone is light tan and unremarkable. The central/transitional zone is enlarged
and nodular. The anterior ﬁbrous stroma is open and the remaining capsule appears intact. The
seminal vesicle/vas deferens bundles (right 3.5 x 2 x 0.5 cm; left 3 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm) are soft and
whorled, without direct evidence of tumor extension.

ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks.

INKING: Right anterior surface in green, left anterior surface in blue, posterior surface in black.
POTENTIAL STUDIES: Fresh tissue is harvested for research purposes.
GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes; slice 7.

TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: 8, inclusive of apical margin.
AVERAGE SLICE THICKNESS: 0.5 cm.

CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Apical margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections

C1: Right apex.

C2: Left apex.

Right anterior quadrant

C3: Slice 3.

C4: Slice 5.

CS: Slice 7.

Right posterior quadrant

C6: Slice 3.

C7: Slice 5.

C8: Slice 7.

Left posterior quadrant

C9: Slice 3.

C10: Slice 5.

C11: Slice 7, tumor.

C12: Slice 8, additional posterior and proximal bladder margin (section inked red for
identification).

Left anterior quadrant

C13: Slice 3.

C14: Slice 5.

C15: Slice 7.

Bladder margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections
C16-BZO: Sequentially submitted from right to leﬁ.

Prostatic/seminal vesicle junction and crosssection of vas deferens
C21: Right.
C22: Left. *

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

(Pathologist

Electronically signed out on

 

