 

Accession #:
Data at Procedure

Patient Name:
Med. Rec. #:

DOB: Date of Receipt:
Gender: Date of Report:
Ref. Physicmn: Account it:
Patient Arttiress: Bailing; Type:

 

Additional Cspy to:

Ref. Smarce:

Clinical Diaqnosis & History:
Patient with history at ten LE sarcoma and incidental right renal mass.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Kidney, right; core biopsy

2: Kidney, right; radical nephrectomy

3: Lymph nodes, me and paracavai; excision

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Kidney, right; core biopsy:
Renal corticat neoplasm.

2. Kidney. right; radicai nephrectomy.
tumor type:
High grade renal cslt carcinmna with extensive gingiiitary. crihrilunn. and solid features, nihst compatible with a
tumor of distat nephronlcoilecting duct origin; see note

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3.6 cm.

Lucat invasion (for renal cortical types}:
lnvelves renal sinus fat

Renal Vein Envasion'
Tumor invades medium to large size muscular vesseis as wait as tyrnphatic spaces in the region of the renal

sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free at tumor
NOEinEOﬁlaSllC Kidney:
Miicl interstitia! chronic inflammation.

Adrenal Gland:
Not itientified

tyinph Nodes:
Not identifiers

Staging fur renat tzsii caminnntamnahcytonia:
pTSh "tumor grossty extends into the renal vairtis) or vena cava below the Gisphragrn

Note. The tumor exhibits muttinodutar growth, tiesrnoplasia, and necrosis, i:mnunotiistochernical stains are positive in: OK? (form.

strung}, Racenmse (diffuse, strong). and 3138512 {recall weak}, while negative for CKZG and (EA—9. Although this tumor does

 

Page 1 of at

 

 

 

exhibit an extensive panittary growth pattern. its range of featur ‘ ‘ roﬁte are most compatihte with a distal
nephrontcotlocttng duct tumor, This case was reviewed with the Consensus Conference which concurs with the

diagnosis.

3. Lymph nodes, pre and paras-rival; excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not Er'wolved
Number of nodes examinedtit

znrrtisr THAT rug rtnove DIAGNOSIS is BASED upon MY PERSONAL sxnurrtnnon 0r rue SLiDES inuUtOR 0T5 IER MMERIML AND THAT “WE
REVIEWED AND neenovso THlS REPORT

 

 

Speciat Studies:
Resutt Special Stein Comment

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT
RECUT
RECUT
RECUT
CK?
RACEMASE
34BE12
CKQG
CAJX.
NEGCONT
IMhtRECU?
C0137
RECUT
RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description: _

t). The specimen is received fresh for irozerr section oonsuitation, inhelerl "Right renal mass biopsy“ and consists of a piece or soft
tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.2 x 0.1 can Entireiy submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections.
FSC -. frozen section control

2} The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation. inhaled "right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached
ureter, renal vessels and perinephric fat weighing 180 g in total. The kidney measures it x 7.5 x 3 cm. The attached ureter
measures 2.? cm in length and {1.4 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures t are in length and 0.8 cm in diameter. The
renal vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrennt gland is not identified The kidney is mired black and
bivalved to reveal a heterogeneous tan pink to golden yellow infiltrating; tumor that is locnily very friabie that measures 3.6 x 3 ct x
2.5 cm located in the cortex with facet extension to the pnrirenel fat and raise extension to the medulla and foceliy to the renal sinus
fat. The tumor is not involving the renal oetvtc or renal hilar int. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal pink brown
harenchyma with a well-defined coriico-rnedultary junction. The cortex measures 0.? cm and the catyces appear normal No

 

PageBotd

 

 

lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephrio let. The specimen is photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS
and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

U‘v‘tvi -~ ureteral and vessel margins

T —- tumor

HF .. turner with hilar fat

TSF -- tumor with sinus int

TK .. tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -— rennt pelvis representative sections
K -, representative sections kidney

TCF —- tumor to capsule and perirene! fat

PCS _- frozen control section —

3). the specimen is received in formalin, labeled ”Pro and para oavel lymph nodes" and consists at six pink tan iirm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.4 to 2 7 cm in greatest dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary oi sections:
LN lymph nodes
BLN-- bisected lyrnph node

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney, right; core biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCS
3 FSC 1

Part 2: Kidney. right: rariieei nephreolomy

Block Sect. Site 96‘s
FCS
HF

t<
RP

T
TC?
TK
TSF
UVM

WNMNN—h—k—k—L
“MNNNJ.&_L._\

Part 3: Lymph nodes, pro and parecavai; excision

Block Sect. Site PBS
2 BLN 2
2 LN 5

hitruupt‘i’ntiw Constiitrttiun:
Note: the diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intreoperative

consultation.

1. FROZEN s n DlAGNOSlS: SP; RIGHT RENAL MASS BIOPS-EPITHELIAL NEOPLASM
DEEPER. ﬂ

PERMA ‘NOSIS: SAME.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: SP: RiG : RENAL CORTiCAt. CARCENOMA.W1TH
PROMINENT PAPELLARY ARCHITECTURE.

PERMANENT DiAGNOSIS: SAME.

N

 

Page 3 of it

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4

END OF REPORT

 

