 

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT KIDNEY":
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, clear cell type (7.2 cm).
Fuhrman nuclear grade II (of IV).
Tumor is limited to the kidney.
Deep (Gerota's fascia) margin is negative for tumor.
Renal vein, artery, and ureter margins are negative for tumor.
No lymphovascular invasion is identified.

E. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "REGIONAL NODES":
Lymph node fragments, negative for tumor.

CLINICAL DATA:

Operation: Nep rectomy.
Clinical Diagnosis: As above.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/l) right kidney.
B/2) regional nodes.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patients

name and unit number.

Part A, labeled "#1 — right kidney", consists of a 1056 gram right radical
nephrectomy specimen, including kidney (15.0 x 8.8 x 5.8 cm) and abundant
surrounding tan/white perirenal disrupted adipose tissue up to 8.0 cm in
thickness. Extending from the renal pelvis is a ureter (2.5 cm in length x 0.4
cm in diameter), renal vein (0.8 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter), two renal
arteries (0.9 x 0.4 cm and 1.6 x 0.3 cm), and a second renal vein (0.6 cm in
length x 0.6 cm in diameter). An adrenal gland is not grossly identified.
Gerota's fascia is inked black, and the specimen is bivalved to reveal a 7.2 x
5.0 x 6.0 cm tan/yellow to tan/red multinodular, focally cystic and necrotic
mass in the renal cortex. The mass is 0.3 cm from the deep soft tissue mass,
2.5 cm from renal artery #2, 2.2 cm from renal vein #2, 5.0 cm from renal
artery #1, and 5.2 cm from the ureter. Gross photographs are taken. The tumor
appears to distort but not invade the renal capsule. The tumor grossly abuts
but does not invade into the perinephric adipose tissue. The tumor extends
into the renal pyramids, but does not grossly invade into the renal sinus fat.
There is no gross invasion of.the renal vein. The remainder of the renal
cortex is tan/brown with a well—defined corticomedullary junction. The pelvis
and calyces are covered by smooth, glistening mucosa. The perirenal adipose
tissue is thinly sectioned and no lymph nodes are grossly identified. A
representative section of tumor is submitted for electron microscopy,
cytogenetics, quick—fix, and Tissue Bank. A representative section of normal
kidney is submitted for electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and for Tissue

Bank.

Micro A1: tumor to deep margin, 2 frags,

Micro A2: tumor to kidney capsule, 2 frags,

Micro A3: tumor to perirenal fat, 2 frags,

Micro A4: tumor to renal sinus fat and tumor to normal kidney, 2 frags, -

Micro A5: T1 quick—fix, 1 frag,
‘ - uick-fix, 1 frag,

 

1- :_-|_ c_-__._ .u— ﬁnnn

 

WW)?”
m 1 ii

  

Date of Birth:

  

Pathology Report

new,” "we”: ;. . as». . \7- . .VM‘ m mar m» m up”;

 

Micro A8: normal kidney, 1 frag, RSS. \\

\
Part B, labeled "#2 - regional nodes", consists of one fragment of ‘\\
yellow/gray/tan fibroadipose tissue measuring 2.6 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm. Five '
possible lymph nodes are identified, ranging in size from 0 2-0.6 cm in
greatest dimension. The entire specimen is submitted for histologic
evaluation.

Micro B1: five possible lymph nodes, 5 frags
Micro B2: remaining tissue, multiple frags,

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only“ exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

ADDENDUM
RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF KIDNEY PARENCHYMA:
RIGHT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

MINIMAL CHRONIC CHANGES OF THE KIDNEY PARENCHYMA, MOST LIKELY AGE-
RELATED (SEE NOTE)

NOTE:

The kidney parenchyma sam 1e examined shows minimal chronic changes, within the
expected range for a _. There is minimal focal global
glomerulosclerosis (0.8% of glomeru i), minimal tubular atrophy and

interstitial fibrosis (less than 2% of the parenchyma), and a mild degree of
vascular sclerosis.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by _, Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue (block A8) were evaluated
using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of cortex and medulla. There are 261 glomeruli present, of
which 2 (0.8%) are globally sclerosed. The remaining glomeruli show no
significant expansion of the mesangial areas. There are no discernible craters
or double contours of the glomerular capillary wall basement membranes. Less
than 2% of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular atrophy and interstitial
fibrosis. Arteries and arterioles exhibit a mild to focally moderate degree of
sclerosis with isolated evidence of hyaline degeneration.

[Clinical history: obesity, COPD, hypertension, osteoarthritis, serum
creatinine 1.0 to 1.2 mg/dL, glucose 97—203 mg/dL]

 

 

 

KARYOTYPE: see interpretation
METAPHASES COUNTED: 0 ANALYZED: 0 SCORED: O BANDING: GTG

I NTERPRETAT I ON :
Attempted cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful because both samples, T1 and
T2, were contaminated upon receipt.

INDICATION FOR TEST:

?

 

 

