TCGA-BW—Bﬁﬂﬁ

 

Surgical Pathology
REVISED REPORT (Revised information underlined)
TISSUE DESCRIPTION:
13.5 cm segment right ureter and right kidney {400 grams, 13.5 x 8.3
x 7.5 cm) and lymph nodes from intra—aortocaval and retrocaval
regions.

DIAGNOSIS:
Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy: Grade _;_(of 4)
renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, forms a 953 x 7.5 x 6.5 cm
mass located in the mid portion of the kidney. The tumor is
confined to the kidney. A tumor thrombus is present in the renal
vein, 0.8 cm in greatest linear extent. Coagulative tumor necrosis
is absent. Sarcomatoid differentiation is absent. The surgical
margins are negative for tumor. Multiple (7) renal hilar lymph
nodes are identified. The adrenal gland is absent.

Lymph nodes, intra—aortocaval and retrocaval, excision: Multiple
(7) intra—aortocaval and (3) retrocaval lymph nodes are negative for
tumor.

Revision Descrip ion:

Grade misinterpreted on frozen section. Should be grade 2 (of 4).
....Original Diagnosis....

Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy: Grade 3 (of 4) renal cell
carcinoma, clear cell type, forms a 9.3 x 7.5 x 6.5 cm mass located
in the mid portion of the kidney. The tumor is confined to the
kidney. A tumor thrombus is present in the renal vein, 0.8 cm in
greatest linear extent. Coagulative tumor necrosis is absent.
Sarcomatoid differentiation is absent. The surgical margins are
negative for tumor. Multiple (7) renal hilar lymph nodes are
identified. The adrenal gland is absent.

Lymph nodes, intra—aortocaval and retrocaval, excision: Multiple
(3) intraeaortocaval and [3} retrocaval lymph nodes are negative for

tumor.

 

w Surgical Pathology

REPORT (Revised information underlined)

TISSUE DESCRIPTION:

13.5 cm segment right ureter and right kidney (400 grave, 13-5 x 8.5
x 7.5 cm} and lymph nodes from intrauaortocaval and :mtrocaVal
regions.

EILEENOSIE a

Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy; Grade _2_(oﬁ 4)

renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, forms a 9.3 x 1.5 x 6.5 cm
mass located in the mid portion of the kidney. The ttmor is
conﬁined to the kidney. A tumor thrombus is present in the renal
vein, 0.3 cm in greatest linear extent. Coagulativs tumor necrosis
is absent. sarcomatcid differentiation is absent. TLe surgical
margins are negative for tumor. multiple (7) renal hilar lymph
nodes are identified. The adrenal gland is absent-

Lymph nodes, intra—eortocaval and retrocaVal. excision: Multiple
(7) intra—aortcoeval and (3) retrocaval lymph nodes are negative for
tumor.

mama‘s: —

Revision Description:

Grade misinterpreted on frozen section. should be grade 2 (of 4}.
....Original Diagnosis..-.

Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy: Grade 3 (of 4) renal cell
carcinoma, clear cell type, forms a 9.3 x 7.5 x 6.5 cu mass locatel
in the mid portion of the kidney. The tumor is confined to the
kidney. A tumor thrombus is present in the renal vein, 0.8 cm in
greatest linear extent- Coagulative tumor necrosis is absent.
sarcomatoid differentiation is absent. The surgical margins are
negative for tumor, Multiple (7) renal hilar lymph nudes are
identified. The adrenal gland is absent.

Lymph nodes. intrauaortocaval and retrocaval, excision: multiple
(3) intra—aortccaval and (3) retrocaval lymph nodes are negative far
tumor.

 

 

 

 

