 

suRGICAL PATHOLOGY:

MRN: I Rm #- PHYSICIAN-
.—

PROF‘FF“ "3‘: DATE: A-RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY TO:

l0 Consultation
TP DIAGNOSIS: "Adenocarcinoma (reported to Dr- positive
patient D)" by Dr.

Pre-Op Diagnosis

Endometrial cancer

Post-0p Diagnosis

Same

Clinical History

Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:

Five parts

Container labeled "—1 - uterus, cervix. bilateral tubes

and ovaries" has a previously partially laterally opened markedly
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa received
after tissue harvest for genomic study. The uterus and cervix
together weigh 318 grams and on reconstruction measure approximately
12.5 x 8‘5 x 8.5 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled gray—tan to pink
ectocervicai mucosa. The as is patent. The uterine canal sounds to
a depth of approximately 7.5 cm. The endocervical canal is lined by
trabeculated tan-pink mucosa. The uterine serosa is smooth and
tan-pink. The architecture is distorted by multiple subserosal and
intramural well deﬁned tan-white ﬁbrous nodules with bulging
whorled tan-white ﬁbrotic cut surfaces, These measure up to 3.2 cm.
The uninvolved myometrium measures up to 2. 6 cm and is tan—pink and
finely trabecuiated. The andometrial canal is markedly distorted by
the presence of the previously mentioned nodules and is occupied by
a friable papiliiferous tan-gray to pink lesion occupying an area of
approximately 6.2 x 3.5 cm. in the posterior aspect in the fundus

this grossly appears to focally extend into the underlying

muscularis where in the area of the fundus this is seen within 10

cm of the serosa. A small amount of parametrial soft tissue on each
side shows no nodularity or gross lesions. The left fallopian tube

UUID: 7301F890 5799- 4166- 9F9A- F9352979FD2eBd

TCGA- AJ- ABQ 5- 01A- PR

|||| l|||
Iowa 3 |||||||||

X44Ii3

Slit! {MOWum m...

)iagnoiis Dis: repar. my

C 6L4 I ( rirnrv Tunic rsite Di: :1

'iiPM Di) screpancy

‘ “i7,
we £0

’rior Malignancy History
Mai/Synchronous Primarm

 
 
  
     
  

 

 

measures 3.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 2.9

x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a focally shaggy pink-red serosa. Each has
an apparent area of discontinuity which may be consistent with
previous ligation. On sectioning, each has a tan wall with a

pinpoint lumen. The left ovary measures 2.0 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm and has
a lobuiar tan outer surface with a mottled tan-gray fibrotic cut

surface. The right ovary measures 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm and has a
lobuiar tan outer surface with a mottled tan ﬁbrotic cut surface.

Also received in the same container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled ' ' Representative sections are submitted
labeled as renews; A - anterior cervix; B - posterior cervix; C -

lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-E - nodules; F43 —
full thickness anterior endomyometrium; H-J - anterior
endomyometrlum; K-L - full thickness posterior endomyometrium; M-P -
posterior endomyometrium; Q-R - left lateral endomyometrium; S—T -
right lateral endomyomotrium; U—X - fundic endomyometrium; Y ~ left
parametrium; Z - right parametrium; AA — left adnexa: BB — right
adnexa.

Container labeled '—2 - right pelvic lymph node" has 4.0

x 3.0 x 1.0 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue which on palpation
and sectioning reveals a previously bisected 3.0 cm partially
fragmented apparent ﬂeshy gray-tan to pink nodule. The specimen is
received after operative consult and touch prep anﬁlvels which is
reported as "adenocarcinoma (reported to Dr. positive patient
D)" by Dr.— The nodule is sectioned and entirely submitted in
two cassettes.

Container labeled '“3 — left aortic lymph node" has 3.6
x 3.0 x 1.0 cm of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveals a previously partially fragmented
1.1 cm tan—pink ﬂeshy nodule. The nodule is entirely submitted in a
single cassette.

Container labeled_4 - right aortic lymph node" has a
2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm portion of tan—yellow ﬁbroadlpose tissue which
is entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled _5 - omentum" has a 42.6 x 15.0 it up
to 1.6 cm sheet of tan—yellow vascularized ﬁbroadipose tissue
grossly consistent with omentum. On palpation and sectioning there
are several thin gray-pink to red ﬁbrous adhesions but no discrete
gross mass lesions. Representative sections submitted in 10
cassettes.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled—

Final Diagnosis
Uterus. cervix. bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries. hysterectomy
with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: intact. received previously opened.
Histologic type: Papillary serous carcinoma.
Histologic grade: Ill (high grade).
Tumor site: Endometrial cavity.
Tumor size: 6.2 x 3.5 x 1.06m.

 

Myometrial invasion: No unequivocal myornetrial invasion identiﬁed
in sections examined.
Involvement of cervix: Not identiﬁed.
Extent of involvement of other organs: Single microscopic focus of
involvement of the left
ovary (see comment).
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present
Surgical margin status:
Surgical margins appear free of malignancy in sections examined.
Lymph node status:
See below.
Other:
Cervix: No significant histopathoiogic change.
Endometrlum: inactive pattern.
Myometrium: Leiornyomata; adenomyosis.
Fallopian tubes: No signiﬁcant histopathologic change.
Ovary, right: No signiﬁcant histopathologic change.
Stage: pT3a N1
Lymph node. right pelvic. excision:
Metastatic carcinoma involving one of one lymph node (1/1).
Tumor up to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
No extracapsular tumor extension identiﬁed in sections examined.
Lymph nodes, left aortic:
Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (016).
"Lymph node", right aortic:
Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue; no lymph node identiﬁed.

Omentum. omentectomy:

Benign ﬂbroadipose tissue consistent with omentum.

No histologic evidenne nf carcinoma identiﬁed in sections
examined. l

CPT:

Comments

Histologic sections demonstrate a poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma involving much of the endometrial cavity. While
grossly suspicious for invasion, no deﬁnitive myometrial invasion

is identiﬁed in the multiple sections examined. However. within the
left ovary a single microscopic focus of tumor (less than 1 mm) with
associated hemorrhage and necrosis is noted. Though microscopic.
this is consistent with an area of adnexal involvement. Clinical
correlation is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. -Who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been ﬁnalized at the—

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

