- unusual:
uum:mrrces-snsr-aaca-acrz “31 eda c’ced

,. ,. ‘   * ll“lliimillllllllllllllllll‘llllllllllllil‘lll‘“
Whammy jitttszﬂﬁwzxw illlWilliillitiiiimluiiinitimiiiiiliiiiiuiui
J/J/IQ—

 

Result Type: Surg Path Final Report

Result Date:

Result Status: Auth (Veriﬁed)

Result Title: Surgical Pathology Final Report
Veriﬁed By: ‘

Encounter info:

Final Diagnosis (Veriﬁed)
Left ureter margin, biopsy with frozen section:
No tumor seen.

Right ureter margin, biopsy with frozen section:
No tumor seen.

Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Three (3) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.

Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Three (3) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.

Urinary bladder and prostate, resection:
Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma of urinary bladder.
Tumor is present on the right bladder wall and measures 1.6 cm in diameter.
Tumor invades deeply into muscularis propria and is focally present at the border
between muscularis propria and underlying perivesical fat.
No evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
Negative perivesical soft tissue margin.
Benign prostatic tissue.
Negative seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia.
AJCC pathologic stage: 12_b,_N_Q.

Appendix, resection:
Negative incidental appendix.

Surg Path Final Report - . , .

* Final Report *

Comment: Additional tissue from the urethral margin will be submitted for microscopic
evaluation and reported in an addendum report.

Signature Line

l . . . ... . .
(Electronically signed by)
Verified on:

Frozen Section Diagnosis (Veriﬁed)
FSA Left ureter - negative for dysplasla. 1

F88 Right ureter — negative for dyspiasla.

Clinical Information (Veriﬁed)
Bladder cancer.

Performing Lab (Verified)

Testing performed at

Gross Description (Veriﬁed)
"FSA." Ail frozen section control tissue is submitted in "FSA."

"FSB." All frozen section control tissue is submitted in "FSB."

“Left pelvic lymph node.“ The specimen consists of a 6.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fatty tissue. On examination. 3 possible lymph
nodes are identiﬁed. These range in size from 4 - 9 cm. "Ct-03,“ fragments. representative.

"Right pelvic lymph node package.“ The specimen consists of a 6.5 x 6 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fatty tissue. On examination, 3
possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed. These range in size from 1.7 — 3.5 cm. "Di-DB," fragments. representative.

"Bladder and prostate." The specimen consists of a 14 x 14 x 6.5 cm bladder and prostate with attached soft fatty tissue. The specimen has
_ .-. .._. ._... L--- -__.....l 4...... ”m anhsvinr acnnrt The nnctnrinr arm! mamin will be inked orange and the remaining prostate will be inked

Surg Path Final Report

* Final Report *

dome of the bladder is a 1.6 x 1.6 cm red-brown ulcerated mass. The soft tissue margin will be inked black. This mass does grossly appear
to extend into but not beyond the bladder wall. This comes to within 1.5 cm from the inked soft tissue margin. The remaining bladder
mucosa has a blue-gray edematous appearance.

The attached prostate measures 5.5 x 4 x 2.5 cm and will be inked black. On sectioning, the cut surface has a pale tan. slightly nodular
appearance. There are 2 clear ﬂuid-ﬁlled cystic spaces. The largest of these is 0.6 cm. No deﬁnite tumor is grossly appreciated within the
prostate. "E1.“ left apex; "E2.” right apex; "E3." left ureteral oriﬁce: "E4," right ureterai oriﬁce: "ES-E7.“ mass right side bladder, "E8." trigone;
"E9.” left side bladder: "E10." dome of bladder: "E11." left seminal vesicle and vas deferens: "E12.” right seminal vesicle and vas deferens;
"E13.” left anterior prostate; "E14." left posterior prostate; “E15." ﬁght anterior prostate; "E16.“ right posterior prostate. Note: Please see
attached drawing.

"Portion of appendix.” The specimen consists of a 1.2 x 0.6 cm distal tip of the appendix. What remains of the serosa has a blue-gray
appearance and is slightly hemorrhagic and focally charred. On sectioning. the lumen is filled with a small amount of fecal material. A
deﬁnite fecalith is not identiﬁed. "F1." distal tip: "F2." margins. all.

Also received are project cassette labelec » ind

Signature Line

Completed Arttion List:
* Order by . ._..__ , ,
* VERIFY by ‘
* Order by ,

