        

HAPAA Discrepancy
Prim Maﬁgnancv History

Dual/Synchronous Prim: . -. I
.

   
 
 

all, 1% “a Mme,” yaw/3
éffu WY, pa; c539 ﬂ 7/470

 

I§URGmALPATHOLOGY I

SURGERY CASE #2 ‘ FINAL UUID:86AFFE7S-2DBB-40 - -
TCGA- E3 SBCA A2F6951730CC

0F mnuImmuuﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁiﬁiﬁnﬁ“ ““3““
W IIIlIHlmlIlMlIIlllllllmllllllIHIlﬂlll'l'hllllnlgﬂlllllmlﬂ'm
A. mHummummummumnumuuuuumum

Right external iliac lymph nodes
Right obturator lymph nodes

Right common periaortic lymph nodes
Left external iliac lymph nodes
Left obturator lymph nodes

Left common periaortic lymph nodes
Cervix, vagina, parametria
Posterior vaginal mucosa

ﬁFOﬁmODW

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: 3. Five lymph nodes, no malignancy. Reactive
follicular hyperplasia.

C. Four lymph nodes, benign.

0. Two lymph nodes, no malignancy.
3. Five lymph nodes, no malignancy.
F. Three lymph nodes, no malignancy.
G. Two lymph nodes. no malignancy.
OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic radical trachelectomy.
pelvic/periaortic lymph node
dissection
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva,

cervix cancer stage T151
POSTOPBRATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Pending pathology

ﬁtiﬁﬁtiﬁi.IDIAGNOSISDOQIQiO'ttﬁ

1. Type of specimen:
Uterine cervix with right and left parametria, portion of vagina,
pelvic washings and regional lymph nodes; laparoscopic radical
trachelectomy with staging lymph node dissection.

2. Tumor type and grade:
Cervical squamous cell carcinoma, large cell keratinizing, invasive
and in situ, moderately differentiated.

3. Depth of invasion:
The tumor extends to a depth of 9.5 mm.
A. The thickness of the cervix in the area of maximal tumor invasion
is more than 25 mm.

4. Tumor size:
The tumor measures 5.8 cm in largest diameter.

P3991 of4
"Thls report contains conﬁdent/a! pat/en! Informer/on roprlnted from the legal medical record. "

Pi

WI!"

5. Tumor site:
Cervix, circumferential.

6. Extent:
A. vascular invasion:
1. Small vessel invasion present.
2. Large vessel invasion: not identified.
3. Vaginal extension: not identified.
C. Uterine corpus extension: not identified.
D Parametrial involvement, right and left: Not identified.

7. Margins:
A. Vaginal: negative.
3. Parametrial; negative.

8. Lymph nodes:
Negative.
Five right external iliac lymph nodes, no malignancy found (0/5)
Four right obturator lymph nodes, no malignancy found (0/4)
Two right common periaortic lymph nodes, no malignancy found (0/2)
Five left external iliac lymph nodes, no malignancy found. (0/5)
Three left obturator lymph nodes, no malignancy found (0/3)
Two left common periaortic lymph nodes, no malignancy found (0/2)

TOTAL: 0/21
9. Pelvic washings:
Negative.

10. Additional findings:
Reactive lymphoid hyperplasia.

11. Tissue is submitted for _ Yes including frozen

neoplastic and normal cervical tissue and parafin blocks including
normal cervical (block 4) and neoplastic (block 9) tissue.

11 TNM STAGING

pT2a2: Clinically visible lesion more than 4 cm in greatest

dimension.

pNO (0/21).

pMX

A. 88108 B. 88307, 88331 C. 88307, 88331 D. 88307,
88331 E. 88307, 88831

F. 88307, 88331 G. 88307, 88331 H. 88309. I. 88302

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION :

A microscopic examination was performed to render the above diagnoses.

GROSS :

A. Received approximately 15 cc of yellow, watery fluid. Two
cytospins obtained.

8. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled

Page20f4
“This report contains conﬁdent/a! patient Information roprlntod from the legal medical record. "

with the patient's name, number and marked as "right external iliac
lymph nodes". It consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue with
lymph nodes in aggregate 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.3 cm. The lymph nodes range in
size from 0.5 to 2.5 cm and appear grossly free of metastatic tumor.
The lymph nodes are submitted for frozen section, frozen section
permanent in a single cassette. Touch preparations are obtained.

c. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled
with the patient's name, number and marked as "right obturator lymph
nodes". It consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue with lymph
nodes in aggregate 6 x 1 x 0.8 cm. The lymph nodes are grossly free of
tumor and are submitted in a single cassette for frozen section, frozen
section permanent. Touch preparations are obtained.

D. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled
with the patient's name, number and marked as "right common periaortic
lymph nodes". It consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue with
lymph nodes in aggregate 2 x 2 x 1 cm. The lymph nodes are grossly
unremarkable, measuring up to 0.9 cm in diameter and are submitted for
frozen section, frozen section permanent in a single cassette. Touch
preparations are obtained.

E. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled
with the patient's name, number and
marked as "left external iliac lymph nodes“. It consists of

fragments of fibroadipose tissue with lymph nodes in aggregate 4 cm.
The lymph nodes are grossly free of tumor, measuring up to 2 cm in
diameter and are submitted for frozen section, frozen section permanent
in a single cassette. Touch preparations are obtained. ,

F. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled
with the patient's name, number and marked as "left obturator lymph
nodes". It consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue with lymph
nodes in aggregate 4.5 x 2 x 0.5 cm. The lymph nodes are grossly
unremarkable, measuring up to 1 cm in diameter and are submitted for
frozen section, frozen section permanent in a single cassette. Touch
preparations are obtained. 1

G. The specimen is received in fixative in a single container, labeled
with the patient‘s name, number and marked as "left common periaortic
lymph nodes". It consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue with
lymph nodes in aggregate 2 cm. The lymph nodes are grossly unremarkable
measuring up to 1.5 cm in diameter and are submitted for frozen section,
frozen section permanent in a single cassette. Touch preparations are
obtained.

H. The specimen is received fresh in a single container, labeled with
the patient's name, number and marked as "cervix, vagina,
parametria". It consists of a radical trachelectomy specimen which
includes the cervix measuring 4.5 cm in circumference and 2.5 cm in
length in continuity with right and left parametria to a maximum
thickness of 2.5 cm and a circumferential vaginal cuff up to 2.5 cm.
Growing from the squamocolumnar junction and extensively involving
the ectocervix is a fungating, foul-smelling, ulcerated, 5.8 x 4 cm
mass that protrudes up to 1.4 cm above the flat cervical surface.

The cervical and vaginal resection margins are grossly free of

Pageaof4
"Thls report contalns conﬁdent/a! pat/ant Information reprinted from the legal med/cal record. "

tumor. The right and left parametria are also grossly free of tumor.
The cervix is pinned down, flat and fixed prior to sectioning.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Sections:

“1 - Cervical tangential resection margin, 12 to 3 - yellow, 3 to 6 -
black for frozen section, frozen section permanent. Touch
preparations are obtained.

#2 - Cervical tangential margin, 6 to 9 - black and 9 to 12 - yellow.

”3 - vaginal resection margins, 12 to 3 and 3 to 6 o'clock
tangential.
#4 - Vaginal resection margins, 6 to 9, 9 to 12 o'clock.
BS and 36 - Right parametrium.
37 and us - Left parametrium.
#9 through #14 - Cervix, proceeding from 12 to 12 o'clock positions
clockwise.

I. The specimen is received fresh in a single container, labeled
with the patient's name, number and marked as "posterior vaginal
mucosa". It consists of two tan portions of mucosa measuring 1.2 x
1.1 x 0.3 cm in aggregate dimension. The larger portion is bisected.
Both portions are totally submitted in a single cassette.

Electronically Signed by

 

|Pa§e created:

 

Fact " ‘ ”

Uset Page 4 o! 4

" I m.» I u..- ..... 7dentlsl patient Information reprinted from the legal medical record. "

