 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Histopathology Report

In a few areas there is cytoplasmic clearing. There are scattered smali foci
suggestive of squamous differentiation in the form of larger cells with more
eosinophilic cytoplasm, larger more vesicular nuciei, prominent nucleoli and
sometimes multinucleation. However there is no evidence of keratinisation and
no interceilular bridges are found. Mitoses are frequent and often abnormal.
lmmunoperoxidase staining for neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin,
synaptophysin and CD56) is negative. The tumour includes endobronchial and
parenchymal components. A tiny strip of metapiastic squamous epithelium
showing moderate dysplasia is noted in one large bronchus adjacent to the
tumour (1 D), and several other airways within the tumour appear to show
squamous carcinoma in situ. Vascular invasion is identified (1D, 1E) and there
is invasiOn into, but not through, the mediastinal pleura (1E). Lymphatic
invasion is not identified but metastatic carcinoma is present in peribronchial
lymph nodes. No perineural invasion is seen. The bronchial resection margin
is clear of dysplasia and invasive malignancy, although a small amount of
largely necrotic tumour appears to lie free in the lumen. The inked

mediastinal soft tissue resection margin is also clear of malignancy. The area
of yellowish consolidation in the lower lobe is the result of organising
obstructive pneumonitis. This shows focal cavitation resulting in the nodule
noted macroscopically, but no organisms are identified in routine or special

stains.

2 & 3: Sections of the separately submitted hilar and no. 8 lymph nodes show
reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and aggregates of pigmented histiocytes but no
evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

SUMMARY

Left pneumonectomy and lymph node sampling:

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, 65 mm in greatest diameter.
Vascular and pleural invasion present.

No perineurai invasion found.

Metastases in peribronchial tymph nodes.

Pathologicat stage T2 N1.

 

cc:
Lung Cancer Registry

 

