 

A: Pulmonary ligament node ievei 9

elmnsFt sad

8: P A window node
C: Hiiar lymph node
D: Le :19 left upper lobe

 

Pathglgglg nggnggls

Pulmonary ligament node level 9: One lymph node negative for maiignancy.
P A window node: Multiple (4) lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

Hitar iymph nods:

53.0.00?

Lung left upper lobe:

Multiple (3) lymph nodes negative for malignancy. .

Histoiogic Type: Adenocaroinoma

Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm
Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Extent of invasion:
Regions! Lymph Nodes:

Distant Metastasis:

Tumor invades the following structures:
Visceral pleura

Number involved: 0

Number examined: 7

Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphcvascular invasion: Absent
Venous invasion: Absent
Arteriai invasion: Absent

pTZpNOpMX

Clinical Histor

Cancer, left upper lobe iung.

 

h

Primary Pathoiogie
Eiiitronioaiiy Signed Out by:

 

Page 1 oi?!

' Page 1 Doc# 1

 

Surgical Pathology Report u-

Gross Descrlgtlgn

”A" - Received in formalin labeled “pulmonary lymph node. level 9“ is a single tan lymph node which
contains anthracotic pigment and measures 2 x i x 0.4 cm. The specimen ls bisected and submitted in

"A1".

”B" - Received in formalin labeled "PA window node level 5" are tour separate fragments of ten tissue
resembling lymph nodes. The tissues range in size from 0.5 up to 1 cm in greatest dimension. The large
lymph node is inked black and bisected.

"C" - Received in formalin iabeled ”hliar lymph nodes" are three tissue fragments resembling lymph nodes.
These are tan-to-gray and range in size from 0.5 up to 2 cm. The iargest lymph node is bisected and
submitted as "Ct”. "C2" contains two lymph nodes. one bisected and inked black; the other is submitted

intact.

"D" ~ Received in formalin iabeied "left upper lobe" is a ieft upper lobe of lung weighing 136 grams and
measuring 18 x ‘2’ x 2 cm. There is a bronchiai stump which measures 1.5 x 0.3 cm. Blood is present
within the iumen. There is a 1.5 x 2 x 1' cm tan—to~gray mass present in the central portion of the specimen.
The mass appears close but does not penetrate the pieurai surface. The mass is located 4 cm away from
the bronchial resection margin and 6 cm away from the apical portion of the lung. The pieurai surface is
pin k-to—tan with some anthracotic pigment present. The pieurai surface overlying the tumor is inked black.
The remaining lung parenchyma is red-to-tan. No additional masses or nodules are seen. Sections are
submitted as follows: "Di“ - bronchial and vascular resection margins; "02”-"05" — tumor entirely submitted
with adjacent pleura; “D?“ emultiple peribronchiai lymph nodes submitted intact.

Microsco ic ri ion
Microscopic examination has been performed on aii slides. The pathologic diagnosis encompasses the

essential microscopic findings of this case.

 

 

— Page 2 Of 2

 

