SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

/4A a 3
WM Wmmd N05 8586/3
8% Wm 6154 /
Case Number: “ “" ‘ ’/3'/”

,a/

Diagnosis:
A: Uterus and cervix, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: -

 

Location of tumor: endometrium

Histologic type: endometrioid adenocarcinoma with spindle cell metaplasia
(K

WM“—

Histologic grade (FIGO): overall FIGO grade 3 (architectural grade 2, nuclear grade 3) (A3, A8) (see comment)

Extent of invasion:

UUID: 2454950F- BBBD- 4690-91CA- BS4C79F9955e2d
TCGA- EV-A A168-

M ometrialinvasion: lnner half III IIIIIIIIIIIfIIﬁﬂﬁIiIIed
v IllII“NIH“I“IHIIIHIIHIIIIIHIIII RIIII “III III III

Depth: 3 mm Wall thickness: 8 mm Percent: 37.5% (A3) III IIIIII IIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIII II I I
IllllIIlIIllllIll|llllllIlllllll||l||l|l|l|||l||l|l||||llIllI

Serosal involvement: absent

Lower uterine segment involvement: Minute detached fragment of tumor focally noted in lower uterine segment; no
stromal invasion identiﬁed.

Cervical involvement: absent

Adnexal involvement (see below): absent

Other sites:

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: widely free
Lymphovascular Space Invasion: absent

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):
Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 40

Other Pathologic ﬁndings:

- Atrophic endometrial polyp.
- Vascular calciﬁcations noted within myometrium.

Hormone receptor status: ER positive (2-3+, 30%) and PR positive (23+, 30%), by immunohistochemistry (A3).
AJCC Pathologic stage: pT1b pNO pr
FIGO Stage grouping: lB

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- Paratubal cyst, no tumor seen.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- No significant pathologic abnormality, no tumor seen.

B: Lymph node, peri-aortic, right, removal
- Nine lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/9).

C: Lymph node, peri-aortic, left, removal
- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/12).

D: Lymph node, pelvic, right, removal
- Eleven lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/12).

E: Lymph node, pelvic, left, removal
— Seven lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/7).

Comment:
Representative sections of tumor (A3 and A8) are shown in consultation to Dr. who also does not recognize evidence of
carcinosarcoma, and concurs with the above diagnosis.

Clinical History:
with endometrial cancer. Outside biopsy was reviewed with diagnosis of well differentiated endometrioid
adenocarcinoma, FIGO Grade 1. A robotic hysterectomy with 350 and lymph node dissection were performed.

Gross Description:
Received are ﬁve appropriately labeled containers.

Container A:

Adnexa: present bilaterally

Weight: 59.4 grams

Shapezpearshaped

Dimensions:

height: 6.7 cm

anterior to posterior width: 2.0 cm

breadth at fundus: 5.0 cm

Serosa: pink/tan and smooth

Cervix:

length of endocervical canal: 2.9 cm

ectocervix: pink/tan and smooth with hyperemia

endocervix: tan and trabeculated

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 3.6 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 1.7 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm

appearance: The mass is a multinodular, somewhat fungating, white/tan, soft mass.

location and extent: The mass appears to be in both the anterior and posterior corpus at the fundus, and appears to
incorporate most of endometrium into the lower uterine segment particularly on the posterior aspect.

myometrial invasion: The inner one-half approximately, 0.2 cm.
thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 0.9 cm
other ﬁndings or comments: none

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 2.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm

external surface: pink/tan and vaguely lobulated
cut surface: yellow/tan and variegated

Right fallopian tube:
dimensions: 6.3 x 0.6 cm
other findings: none

Left ovary:

dimensions: 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm

external surface: yellow/tan and vaguely cerebriform
cut surface: yellow/tan and variegated

Left fallopian tube:
dimensions: 6.0 x 0.5 cm

other findings: none

Lymph nodes: assessed separately

Other comments: none
Digital photograph taken: no
Tissue submitted for special investigations: Normal endometrium and cervix and tumor sent to Tissue Procurement.

Block Summary:

A1 - anterior cervix

A2 - anterior lower uterine segment
A3 - anterior mid corpus

A4 - anterior fundus

A5 - posterior cervix

A6 ~ posterior lower uterine segment
A7 - posterior mid corpus

A8 ~ posterior fundus

A9 ~ right ovary and right fallopian tube
A10 - left ovary and left fallopian tube

Container B is additionally labeled "right peri-aortic node." The specimen consists of a single yellow/tan fragment of
ﬁbroadipose tissue with a measurement of 5.2 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm. Four lymph node candidates are identified that measure
between 0.8 and 2.5 cm.

Block Summary:

B1 - three lymph node candidates
BZ - one lymph node candidate, bisected
33,84 - remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Container C is additionally labeled "left peri-aortic node." The specimen consists of a single yellow/tan fibroadipose
tissue fragment that measures 4.8 x 2.8 x 1.2 cm. Five lymph node candidates are identified within tissue measuring
between 0.4 up to 3.5 cm.

Block summary:

C1 - four lymph node candidates
C2 - one lymph node candidate, sectioned
C3,C4 - remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Container D is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node." The specimen consists of multiple yellow/tan fibroadipose
tissue fragments with an aggregate measurement of 4.0 x 4.2 x 1.8 cm. Eight lymph node candidates are identiﬁed
within fibroadipose tissue ranging between 0.5 cm to 2.0 cm in diameter.

Block Summary:

D1 - four lymph node candidates

DZ - two lymph node candidates

D3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
D4 - one lymph node candidate

D5 — remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Container E is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node." The specimen consists of multiple yellow/tan fibroadipose
tissue fragments with an aggregate measurement of 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.2 cm. Six lymph node candidates are identified
within ranging between 0.7 up to 2.5 cm in diameter.

Block Summary:

E1 - three lymph node candidates

E2 - two lymph node candidates

E3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
E4 - remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used In this case may be classified as analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR). These
were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the 't

"- ' 3 These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval' Is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory" Is certiﬁed under the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.

Signature

Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist:

I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above diagnosis(es).

