 

UUID: 9747(2930- 3F58- 4886- 9068- ESEm7ROBe15Aac
TCGA- KB-ASBJ- O1A- PR

IIIlIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIcllEd
IIIIWI IlIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII
’IIIIIIIIlIlIII IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

DEPARTMENT or PATHOLOGY

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient Name: Accession #: “
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: M" Visit#: Received:
Gender. M Location: Reported:
* “an , Facility:
Ordering MD:
Copy To:

 

§ggcimenm Received

1. Stem—Resection: TOTAL STOMACH & DISTAL ESOPHAGUS 08 ON ESOPHAGEAL MARGIN (OS)
2. Soft TissuezPara~esophageal tissue

3. Soft TissuezFinal esophageal margin

4. Surgical Waste

w = ===g==

Diagnosis
1. Total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, stomach body, anterior wall The

tumor invades through the muscularis propria and extends superﬁcially into the serosa. Lymphovascular and perineural
invasion is present The resection margins appear clear of Invasive carcinoma. One of thirty— -five lymph nodes positive for

metastatic adenocarcinoma (1135) See synoptic data MD a 3
2. Para-esophageal tissue: Negative for malignancy. mam {WM 9/4513

3. Final esophageal margin: Negative for malignancy.

4. Surgical Waste: No section submitted. See gross. 3/ 4/3
' 6,150
anemic Data 8
MACROSCOPIC 6MP”?
Specimen Type: Other: Total gatrectomy & distal esophagectomy W’ﬂib/l‘f
Tumor Site: Body - Anterior wall
Body - Greater curvature
Tumor Conﬁguration: Exophytic (polypoid)
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 8.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 7.0 x 1.2 in thickness cm
---------------- MICROSCOPIC—-------—------~
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, intestinal type
Histologic Grade: GS: Poorly differentiated
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pTZb: Tumor invades subserosa

pN1: Metastasis in 1 to 6 perigastric lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 35

Number of lymph nodes involved: 1

pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

w Page 1 era

 

w Surgical Pathology Consultation Report . “

Margins: ' Proximal Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distal Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Omental (Radial) Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Present
Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent
Perineural Invasion: Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Intestinal metaplasia
Gastritis (type): chronic gastritis

 

‘ Electronically veriﬁed by:

Clinical History
STOMACH CANCER

Gros Descri n

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “atom-resection: Total stomach & distal es0phagus OS on
esophageal margin (08)"

Resection Specimen: Total gastreotomy
How received: Fresh

DIMENSIONS OF ESOPHAGUS:

The esophagus is submitted in toto for intraoperative consultation by frozen section (measurements not provided), with
esophageal margin in toto en face.

DIMENSIONS OF STOMACH:

Length long greater curvature 31.0 cm

Length along lesser curvature 15.0 cm

Length of distal duodenum 0.6 cm
Circumference of distal duodenal margin 5.5 cm

TUMOR:

Location in relationship to gastroesophageal junction: The tumor is located on the anterior body wall of the stomach.
extending to the greater curvature

Conﬁguration: The tumor has raised borders, with a crater—like central appearance

Dimensions:

Diameters 8.0 cm in length x 7.0 cm

Thickness: 1.2 cm

Descriptive characteristics: Tan, friable

Ulcerationlperforation: Not grossly identiﬁed

Distance from margins:

Proximal 2.0 cm (at time of gross dissection following previous submission of distal: esophageal segment for frozen
section)

Distal 5.7 cm

Estimated depth of invasion: Through muscle wall, extending into gastric serosa

 

M Pa§e20f3

m Surgical Pathology Consultation Report “

LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH:
None grossly identiﬁed. The gastric rugae are ﬂattened.

 

LYMPH NODES:
Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 - 1.8 cm are identiﬁed within perigastric tissue.

TISSUE BANKING:
The tumor (four pieces) and normal tissue (three pieces) are sampled for tissue banking.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

1A frozen section block resubmitted, proximal esophageal margin in toto en face, with distal esophageal segment in toto
1B perpendicular section from proximal marginlgastroesophageal junction at time of gross dissection
1C grossly unremarkable stomach proximal to tumor

1D-1 K gastric tumor sampled from proximal to distal (serosa painted with silver nitrate)

1L grossly unremarkable stomach distal to tumor

1M pylorus

1N distal duodenal margin in toto en face

10-1 P lesser curvature perigastric tissue, one lymph node serially sectioned

1Q lesser curvature perigastric tissue, one bisected lymph node

1R-1T lesser curvature perigastric tissue, three lymph nodes per block

1U-1X lesser curvature perigastric tissue, four lymph nodes per block

W greater curvature perigastric tissue, one bisected lymph node

12 greater curvature perigastric tissue, three lymph nodes

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as "soft tissue: Para-esophageal margin".

One piece of congested soft tissue measuring 1.7 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm.
2A bisected and submitted in toto

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "soft tissue: Final esophageal margin".

Number of gray-tan soft tissue pieces: 2
Measurements: 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm to 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm.
The larger tissue piece is ragged and irregular, and inﬁltrated by blue suture material

The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
3A smaller tissue piece
38 larger tissue piece (sutures removed)

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "surgical waste".

One tubular piece of bowel tissue measuring 1.1 cm in length x 5.5 cm in circumference, stapled at one end and
otherwise inﬁltrated by blue suture material. No sections are submitted.

Guru-t Section Diagnosis
1A. Esophageal margin 08:

— Negative for malignancy

 

P TS ‘ »

7.2:: Tm: mtmﬂmm.
‘ +394.

Will» lS‘I’Dr

 
    

4/37

    

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Fur-m ”00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS): __ ,- _g_.___,'l‘$S identiﬁer: , ,TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer. _

 

 

 

 

         
     

Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinica): h Completed Date: _

s ~’

     

'Worklng lnsu-rictio‘ns

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

Data Element Entry Alternatives
th I ’ AAL ' Provide the dla'gitosls/ hlsmlogic su'btype(s) documented on ‘
Pa. 0 o'gic Diagnosis 1 a 0 ~ the initial pathology report forthiscase. lfthe histology for
1 provided on Initial Car “cm“ ”‘3 this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
. . f ‘ . " I ~ ' ' ' ' the'l'CGACase
Histologic features of (lei-{1.9L m cl 3 Pmdecme hisltgloslc featulrsese‘sfflgcz‘i‘s” .
2 the sample provided P‘AQWO . \ T Q, Q‘ W mm mm mm r case'
‘ for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQ‘CF. ‘
> ' 1.; s avg; ?atb§) m-I- ., Repgguamiiag ﬁuahtyConh'ol Fhrm .,,,,_ ... s: a: 3 if. ~. 75 ; r in? :: .y I
l 3‘: Provide the reason for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
Cl g pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
the discrepancy , I’m-‘1 ‘ P W \03 ‘1 diagnosls selected on the 'l'CGA Case Quality Control Form.
between the pathology £0 at
repOrt and the TCGA 4-6—6 P054» C up e y)
Case Quality Control 0
Fm at «rm ﬁsSuL~
out

am. (tact: wePets +0

 

amassvwivd' 0‘? ”W”
(speciﬁc block—I “55%
sad to “(MIA '

 

’ Name: ofTSS Reviewing ' ‘ 7 Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or ‘0’ TCGA
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or'Bioreposi’tory Director ' Date

I acknowledge that the above infomou'an provided by my ‘ ' ”*‘mn is true and correct and has been quality Conn-oiled. The Attending Paﬂiolagistor the
DepartmentCkati-mon has”... ...rfnnned or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal investigator Signature ‘ I Date

