 
  

CGA-BA-4077

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY RE ISED REPORT

Surgical Pathology Report
* Amended *

Amendments:

Amended:

Reason: Additional Information
Comment: FSF, F additional line.

Previous Signout Date: _

Diagnosis:
FSA: Lymph nodes, pretracheal, biopsy.
H No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2).

FSB: Periosteum, mental, biopsy.
— Skeletal muscle, no invasive carcinoma identified.

ESC: Right carotid sheath, biopsy.
— Fibrous connective tissue, no invasive carcinoma
identified.

FSD: Right retropharyngeal space, biopsy.
— Fibrous connective tissue, no invasive carcinoma
identified.

FSE: Right parapharyngeal space, biopsy.
H Fibrous connective tissue, no invasive carcinoma
identified.

FSF,F: Larynx and tongue, glossolaryngectomy.

— Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately
differentiated, non—keratinizing, at least 4 cm diameter,
involving paramidline base of tongue bilaterally, floor of
mouth, valecula, and hyoid bone, without angiolymphatic

 

invasion, inked surgical margins not involved.
~ Lymph nodes, right cervical — No metastatic carcinoma
identified (0/6).

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative frozen section consultation was requested
by Dr.

FSAl: Lymph node, pretracheal, biopsy
— One lymph node, no tumor seen

FSBl: Periosteum, mental, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSCl: Right carotid sheath, biopsy
~ No tumor seen, small fragment of nerve present

FSDl: Right retropharyngeal space, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSEl: Right parapharyngeal space, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
with a history of moderately differentiated squamous cell

carcinoma of the tongue.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A holds a 0.8 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm lymph node
candidate; totally submitted in block FSAl, -

Container B holds a 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm white/tan soft
tissue fragment; block FSBl, -

Container C is received fresh in the frozen section room
and described as a 1.0 X 0.2 x 0.2 cm redftan soft tissue
fragment which is totally submitted in block FSCl, -

Container D is received in the frozen section room and
described as a 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue

 

fragment which is totally submitted in block FSDl, -

Container E is received fresh in the frozen section room
and described as a 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment which is totally submitted in block FSEl, -.

Container F:
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: total glossectomy and total laryngectomy
with partial neck contents from Levels I, II and III

Size of specimen: The tongue measures 7.0 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm
and the larynx measures 4.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm with two
tracheal rings.

Orientation of specimen: The specimen is inked such that
the mucosal margin and soft tissue margins on the right are
blue, and mucosal margins and soft tissue margins on the
left are black. Certain deep and posterior soft tissue
margins on the mid line are inked green.

Tumor description: The tumor is a large, ulcerated,
destructive lesion measuring 4.0 cm anterior to posterior,
3.1 cm medial to lateral, and 3.0 cm superficial to deep.
It is a red, ulcerated destructive lesion involving the
posterior right tongue, the base of the tongue bilaterally,
the floor of the mouth, palatal glossal arch, and close but
not quite involving the vallecula.

Multiple Polaroid photographs are taken of the fresh,
intact specimen and a __ solution scan is taken a
longitudinal section through the midline of the specimen
after fixation.

Location of tumor: see above

Tumor size: see above

Extent of tumor: see above

Presence/absence of bone involvement: The tumor comes very
near to the hyoid bone grossly, but involvement cannot be

assessed.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The tumor comes to
within 7.0 cm from the tracheal margin, 1.5 cm from the

 

right and left anterior sublingual margins, 0.5 cm from the
lateral right lingual margin, 0.4 cm from the posterior
right sublingual margin, 1.2 cm from the right
aryepiglottic fold margin, 2.5 cm from the left
aryepiglottic fold margin, 1.2 cm from the posterior left
sublingual margin, 1.1 cm from the lateral left sublingual
margin, 1.0 cm from the posterior and deep soft

tissue margin, and 1.3 cm from the anterior soft tissue
margin, the tumor comes to within 0.5 cm of the lateral
right soft tissue margin and 1.4 cm from the lateral left
soft tissue margin.

Description of remainder of tissue: unremarkable

Tissue submitted for special investigations: A small amount
of tumor and normal is given to Tissue Procurement.

Lymph nodes: The right neck contents consists of six lymph
nodes ranging in diameter from 2 mm to 7 mm. Also, there is
a 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm salivary gland with an unremarkable
tan, lobulated architecture. The right neck contents
contain a single 0.5 cm lymph node candidate.

Block Summary:

F1 — anterior sublingual margin, left

F2 — lateral sublingual margin, left

F3 — posterior sublingual margin, left

F4 — aryepiglottic fold margin, left

F5 H entire tracheal margin

F6 _ anterior sublingual margin, right

F7 — lateral sublingual margin, right

F8 — posterior sublingual margin, right

F9 — aryepiglottic fold margin, right

F10 — tumor at posterior tongue

F11 — tumor at base of tongue

F12 — anterior soft tissue margin, contiguous with
tissue taken in F11

F13 — deep soft tissue margin, tumor at floor of mouth
and hyoid bone

F14 — right vocal cord

F15 m tumor, floor of mouth, vallecula and epiglottis
F16,F17 ~ full thickness coronal section from
superficial to deep at the base of the tongue, including
lateral right soft tissue margin

F18 - tumor and lateral soft tissue margin, left

 

F19 — tumor at floor of the mouth and right lateral soft
tissue margin

F20 " left salivary gland

F21 w three lymph node candidates, left

F22 w three lymph node candidates, left

F23 — one lymph node candidate, right

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.
The frozen section diagnoses are confirmed.
Histologic tumor type: squamous carcinoma
Histologic grade: moderately differentiated

Tumor extent: predominantly R paramidline BOT, with
extension to FOM, vallecula, and anteriorly to hyoid bone.

Presence/absence of CIS: present.

Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: absent
Presence/absence of perineural space invasion: absent
Histologic assessment of surgical margins: negative
Lymph nodes: negative

Size of largest nodal metastasis (greatest dimension):
Presence/absence of extranodal extension:

Other significant findings: none.

AJCC staging:

pT4A

pNO

pr

This staging information is based on this pathologic

specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of
all available information is recommended to determine final

staging.

Amendment Comment: Following initial case finalization, it

 

was brought to our attention that the diagnostic lines do
not reference the included lymph nodes.

 

