 

,_ """" LABORATORY MEDICINE PROGRAM

/¢A«0~3 ,
CWW Wm), N05 WW] 3

$.-rL-. WM 65““

 

 

 

 

3Iu/u W
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report 7
* Addended *
Patient
Name: Accession #:
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #2 Received:
Gender: Location: Reported:
HCN: Facility:
Ordering
MD:
Copy To:
8 ecimen 3 Received
1. Lymph-Node: Pre-Caval Lymph Node
2. Uterus: Uterus, cervix & 880
3. Omentum
4. Lymph node: RT. Common & external iliac lymph node
Diagnosis
1. Pre-caval lymph nodes
- Metastatic serous carcinoma in one lymph node. (1/1)
2. "Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, robotic-assisted total hysterectomy, bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy:
Endometrium:
-SEBQUS CARCEQMA.
‘f ‘ . UUID:83A96371-1CD6-4BeB-BDAS.
Myometrium. ‘ . TCGA'EO‘A1Y5-91A-pR C8CD7C7DE81F
- Involved by serous carcmoma to uterine serosa . ll” Illllwllﬁl'i#IHIIWI'mW""m'mmm'”,”"ﬁﬁﬁmutw
Cervix: Illl I ill I llHlllill ll illlilllll lil
_ Serous carcinoma, present in lymphatic/vascular spaces iii illilliliillliilliilliliIlllllllHllllllHlililillilili Illil

Right & left ovaries:
- Serous carcinoma, present in lymphatic/vascular spaces
- Epithelial inclusion cysts. at...“

Right & left fallopian tubes:
- Serous carcinoma, present in lymphatic/vascular spaces

 

3. Omentum, partial omentectomy:
- Negative for malignancy.

4. Right common and external iliac lymph nodes:
- Metastatic serous carcinoma in 8 out 17. (8/17)

S no tic Data

by:

Specimen:

Procedure:

Lymph Node Sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:
Histologic Grade:
Myometrial Invasion:

involvement of Cervix:

Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube
Omentum
Simple hysterectomy
Bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy
Omentectomy

Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
intact hysterectomy specimen
Other: both sides
Greatest dimension: 2 cm
Serous adenocarcinoma
G3: Poorly differentiated
Present
Depth of invasion: 10 mm
Myometrial thickness: 10 mm
Not involved

Extent of Involvement of Other Organs:

Lymph—Vascular Invasion:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Right ovary not involved
Left ovary not involved
Right fallopian tube not involved
Left fallopian tube not involved
Omentum not involved
Present
Not applicable
pT3a (lllA): Tumor involves serosa and/or adnexa (direct extension or
metastasis)
pN1 (lllC2): Regional lymph node metastasis to para-aortic
lymph nodes, with or without positive pelvic lymph nodes
Pelvic lymph nodes examined: 17
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 8
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 1
Para—aortic lymph nodes involved: 1
Not applicable
None identified

 

Electronically veriﬁed

 

 

Clinical Histom
Endo Ca

Gross Descri tion

1. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Precaval lymph node"
consists of a piece of tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.5 cm received fresh. This is examined at
intraoperative consultation by frozen section performed on part of the specimen. The specimen is
submitted in toto as follows

1A- frozen section block resubmitted.

1B-1D— remainder of the specimen.

 

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as “Uterus: Uterus. cervix and B80"
contains a uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tube and bilateral ovaries received in 10% buffered
formalin.The uterus measures 8.0 cm Si x 5.7 cm ML x 3.0 cm AP and the cervix measures 2.9 cm. in
diameter with a 0.9 cm slit~shaped 0s. The right and left fallopian tubes measures 7.5 cm in length and
0.7 cm in diameter and 3.5 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter respectively. The right and left ovaries
measure 2.4 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm and 2.5 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm respectively. The entire specimen weighs 102.8 g.
The cut surface of the right and left ovaries are solid in consistency with a yellow-tan to gray-tan
appearance otherwise grossly unremarkable. The left fallopian tube grossly appears ﬁmbriated but the
right fallopian tube has no identiﬁable fimbria. The endocervical mucosa and ectocervical mucosa is
congested but otherwise grossly unremakable. There is a polypoid tan-brown endometrial tumor mass
noted on the anterior left side cornual area measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm in depth. The remainder of the
endometrium is ﬂattened, lush and slightly nodular. The uterine serosa is congested, with fibrous
adhesions and an area on the posterior serosa which is nodular measuring 1.8 x 1.0 cm. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

2A-28- remainder of right ovary submitted in toto.

2C-ZD- remainder of right fallopian tube submitted in toto.

2E-2F-remainder of left ovary submitted in toto.

ZG-ZH—remainder of left fallopian tube and query left fimbria submitted in toto.

2l-2K-full transverse sections of anterior endomyometrium with tumor

2L-2M-longitudinal section of the anterior lower uterine segment

2N-20- anterior cervix

2P-2R-full transverse sections of the posterior endomyometrium

2S-2U-transverse sections of the posterior left myometrium with serosal nodularity

2V-2W-longitudinal section of the posterior lower uterine segment

2X-2Y—posterior cervix

One piece left fallopian tube, left ovary, right fallopian tube, right ovary, and one piece endometrial CA are
stored frozen.

3. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "omentum" contains a single piece of
an unoriented fibroadipose tissue received in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue measures 10.5 x 7.5 x
0.7 cm and weighs 24.7 9.

On serial sectioning, the cut surface is predominantly fatty with no nodules identified grossly.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

3A—3E-representative sections submitted

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Right common and
external iliac lymph node" consists of multiple fragments of unoriented fatty tissue measuring in aggregate
6.5 x 3.0 x 1.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. Within the fatty tissue, multiple lymph nodes are
identiﬁed ranging in size from 0.5 cm to 1.7 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:

4A- one lymph node bisected

4B- one lymph node bisected

4C-multiple lymph nodes

40- multiple lymph nodes

4E-one lymph node bisected

4F-4H-remainder of fatty tissue.

Quick Section Diagnosis
1. Pre-caval lymph node: Positive for high-grade adenocarcinoma.

 

Called at ' .
MD
Addendum Status: Signed Out
Date Reported:

Addendum Diagnosis
Tumor cells are show diffuse and strong positivity for P53, p16 and focal positivity for ER. They are

negative for WT-1 and PR. MMR repair gene assessment for MSH-G, PMS-2, MLH-1 and MLH-2 show
intact genes.

 

