  

— Wis-4629

Wiagnosis:

Lung, right upper lobe and contiguous ribs 3 and 4, lobectomy and chest wall resection.
— Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.5 cm diameter, with extension through pleura at site of pleural
adhesions; bronchial and final chest wall surgical margins not involved.
— Lymph nodes, peribronchial — No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).
~ Patchy acute bronchopneumonia with subpleural fibrous plaque in uninvolved lung.

 

3: Station 7 lymph node, removal.
No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/3 fragments).

C: Nodule, right middle lobe, wedge biopsy.
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/1).

D: 34 lymph nodes, removal.
- No metastatic carcinoma identified [0/9 fragments).

Comment:
None.

Clinical History:
right upper lobe mass, undergoes right thoracosectomy.

Gross Description:
Received are four appropriately containers.

Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right lung upper lobe with attached right rib #3 and #4
Size of specimen: 15 x 12 X 4 cm and attached rib and soft tissue measures 11 x 5 x 3.5 cm
Weight of specimen: 530 9

:her attached structures: right #3 and #4 ribs and chest wall soft tissue
Tumor location: tumor is lecated peripherally of upper portion of the right upper lobe

Tumor size: 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm, tumor is grossly white/gray and infiltrative involving the pleura and extending
to the chest wall

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: tumor is at least 5 cm away from bronchus

Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: at least S cm
Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: tumor grossly invades through the pleura

into adjacent chest wall

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: 2.8 cm from posterior rib resection margin, at least 5 cm away from
anterior rib resection margin. The closest to lung resection margin is 3.5 cm.

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: present, one satellite nodule is
identified measuring 2.5 x 0.8 x 2.2 cm, grossly it is 2.2 cm away from main tumor mass

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: bronchus, pulmonary resection margin and attached chest wall margin
is grossly not involved by tumor

Description of nontumorous lung: post obstructive changes

Block Summary:
A1 — bronchial and pulmonary vessel margin
A2,A3 — pulmonary resection margin after removal of surgical staples
Ad—AS - tumor with involved pleura
Aﬁ—AS - representative section of the main tumor mass
AQ—AlO - tumor with attached chest wall
All ~ representative section from satellite nodule
A12 H anterior chest wall soft tissue resection margin
13 - posterior chest wall soft tissue margin
4 — two lymph node candidates from hilar region
'n15 — anterior tip margin
A16 — posterior rip margin
n17—A18 — tumor with chest wall
A19 ~ non-tumoral lung section

 

Container B is additionally labeled "station 7". It consists of a brown/black, triangular shaped soft tissue
specimen. Bisected and submitted in El, -.

Container C is additionally labeled "right middle nodule". It consists of a black/brown, 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm
odule. Bisected and submitted in Cl, -

container D is additionally labeled "R4". It holds a 3.4 x 1.5 cm, yellow/black soft tissue fragment. There are
nine lymph node candidates identified ranging from 0.3 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. All lymph node
candidates rase submitted in D1—D3.

D1 — four lymph node candidates
D2 — two lymph node candidates
03 — three lymph node candidates

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification): Adenocarcinoma (mucin (+), TTFI (+), calretinin {—))
Tumor histologic grade {WHO classification): poorly differentiated
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.5 cm diameter

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Bronchial and pulmonary vascular margins not involved, chest wall
bone and soft tissue margins not involved.

Pleural involvement: Pleural adhesions are present overlying carcinoma, and pleural involvement is present.
In situ carcinoma: not identified

Invasion:

angiolymphatic — not identified

perineural — not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group): 0/14 total (see diagnoses for locations)

Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: n/a

Findings in nontumorous lung:
“atehy acute bronchopneumonia (A8), subpleural fibrous scar with smoking associated changes (All).

 

