iI

Surgical Pathology Report ’

 

Name: “ Case #: ‘
DOB: “ ' Collected:

Gender: F Received:

MRN: # Reported:

Location: _ Copy To:

Physician:

 

 

Pathologlc lnterpmtgtion:

C.

E.

F.

LEFT BREAST SENTINEL NODE # 1 (COUNT
- One lymph node negative for carcinoma (011), (see note). / CA ' 4 ' 3

- ‘ ‘ " IDW 35'.» 3
RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL nooE II 1. (COUNT (WW. inf/MM; 7 , ~95 /
- One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1). (see note). (9%,, . W Am; C 5'0. 7’ é/P/l/ W

RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL none I! 2, (COUNT ’
- one ”mph "m "0983‘” for cardmma (0"). (so. "Ole,- UUID: DSZCABBE- -BD7E- 41E5- 4:9“?- 9EDO7E94E5Ce4da
RIGHT BREAST SENTINEL MODE Ir 3. (coum “A“ ' “"13”“

- One lymph node negative for carcinoma (on). (see note). I I I I IIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III I

II III I I

I IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIl IllIIIlllIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII

RIcI-IT BREAST SENTINEL MODE II 4, Icoum III IIII I||| ||||
- One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1). (see note).

~ WINVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA. moderately differentiated (see note)

- Invasive carcinoma is present at least 0.3 cm from the nearest resection margin (slide F3).
- Invasive carcinoma extensively involves the nipple and dermis.

- No In situ carcinoma is identiﬁed.

— No definitive lymphovascular invasion ls seen.

- Microcalciﬂcations are present and associated with normal breast parenchyma.

- AJCC staging. PT3 N0 (sh) Mx. Please see tumor summary.

ted

C
III

Note: The' Invasive carcinoma measures 4. 5 cm by gross measurement. However. based on adjacent sections in slides
F9 through F12 the microscopic. measurement of tumor size is estimated as at least 6.1 cm. Receptor studies were
reported previously I .Keratin stains on the lymph nodes will be reported In an addendum

R_,!jI BREAST MASTECTOMY:

- INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA. moderately differentiated. Nottingham grade 2 (3+3+1). measuring at least 1.1 cm in

greatest dimension (slide 615). Two additional' Invasive loci each measuring 0 4 cm are found' "1 slides G12 and 617.
- No Iyrnphovascular invasion is seen.

- DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU. high nuclear grade solid on cribrlform type. With central camedo necrosis and
celeiMetions ls present In 10 of 17 blocks (EIC positive). located more than 1.0 cm from nearest margin.
- AJCC staging PT1c N0(sh) Mx. See tumor summary.

Note: Hormone receptor studies and keratin stains on the lymph nodes will be reported in an addendum.

LEFT BREAST ADDITIONAL SUPERIOR SKIN:
- Skin and benign breast parenchyma.

LEFT BREAST ADDITIONAL MEDIAL SKIN:
- Skin and benign breast parenchyma.

TUMOR SUMMARY
INVASI C :

Specimen: Total breast (including nipple and skin)

Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)

Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)

Specimen Integrity: Multiple designated specimens (eg. main excision and identiﬁed margins)

Specimen Laterallty: Left
Tumor Focallty: Single focus of invasive carcinoma

 

“I suaoicu. PATHOL ReLort “

Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor .

Skin: invasive carcinoma directly invades into the dermis or epidemic without skin ulceration
Histologlc Type of invasive Carcinoma: lNVASlVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA

Histologlc Grade: Nottingham Histologic ScoreIOverall Grade= 2 (scores of 6 or 7)
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Lymph Nodes (required only If lymph nodes are present in the specimen)

Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 1

Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentlnel): 1

Number of lymph nodes with macnometastases (>0.2 cm): 0

Number of lymph nodes with mlcrometastases (>02 mm to 0.2 cm and/or >200 ceile):0
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (50.2 mm and 5200 cells): 0

Pathologic Staging (based on information available to the pathologist) (pTNM) (Note M)
pT3: Tumor >50 mm in greatest dimension

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

000900! (PH)

pNO: Ne regional lymph node metastasis identiﬁed histologically
Note: isolated tumor cell (lTC) clusters are deﬁned as small clusters of cells not greater than 0.2 mm or single
tumor cells. Or a cluster of fewer than 200 cells in a single histologlc cross-section.‘ lTCs may be detected by
routine histology or by lmmunohlstochemical (Il-lC) methods. Nodes containing only lTCs are excluded from
the total positive node count for purposes of N classiﬁcation but should be included in the total numberof
nodes evaluated.

Modiﬁer

(en): Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are mmoved. this modlier

should not be used. r

Distant Metastasis (M) : Not applicable
Ancillary Studies

W
Performed on another specimen:
Results: lmmunoreactive tumor cells present (21%)

W
Perforated on another specimen:
Results: Immunoreactlve tumor present (21%)

Perfumed on another specimen:
Results: Negative (Score 0)

Microcalcllicatlons: Present in non-neoplastic tissue

I N i OF

Specimen : Total breast (including nipple and skin)

Procedure : Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)

Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)

Specimen Integrity: Single Intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Latsrallty: Right

Tumor Focellty: Multiple fool of Invasive carcinoma
Number of tool: 3
Sizes of individual foci: 1.1 cm, 0.4 cm. 0.4 cm

 

en's- , ’. c— I made

 

‘ ” SURGICAL PATHOL Report Q__

Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor

Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the derrnls or epidermis

Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidemic

Skeletd muscle: No skeletal muscle present

Ductal carcinoma In situ (DCIS): DCIS is present, EIC positive

Size of (Extent) of DCIS

Number of blocks with DCIS: 10

Number of blocks examined: 17

Architectural Patterns: Comedo, Cribrlform. Solid

Nuclear Grade: Grade Ill (high)

Necrosis: Present. central (expansive ‘comedo‘ necrosis)

Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (LCIS): Not identified

Histologlc Type of invasive Carcinoma: INVASIVE DUCT AL CARCINOMA (no special type or otherwise specified)
Histologlc Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score

Tubules: Score 3: <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures

Nuclear Pleomorphlsm: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei. often with prominent nucleoli. exhibiting marked variation in size and shape.
occasionally with very large and bizarre forms

Mitotic Count: Score 1

Overall Grade: Grade 2 (scores of 6 or 7)

Margins : Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma and DCIS

Treatment Effect: Response to Presurglcal (Neoadluvant) Therapy: No known presurglcal therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Dermal Lymph-Vascular lnvasion:_ Not identified

Lymph Nodes (required only If lymph nodes are present in the specimen)

Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 4

Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 4

Number of lymph nodes with macromelastases (>01 cm): 0

Number of lymph nodes with mlcrometastases (>02 mm to 0.2 cm and/or >200 cells):0

Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (50.2 mm and 5200 cells): 0

Extranodal Extension: Not identified

Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes; Hematoxylln and eosin (HSE). one level and lmmunohistochemlstry
Pathologic Staging (based on information available to the pathologist) (pTNM) (Note M)

pT1c: Tumor >10 mm bdt"‘<20mm In greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

Cat-M (PNI

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis Identified histologically

Note: Isolated tumor cell (ITC) clusters are defined as small clusters of cells not greater than 0.2 mm or single
tumor cells. or a cluster of fewer than'200 cells In a single histologic cI'¢:Iss-seI::tion.‘I lTCs may be detected by
routine histology or by immunohistochemlcal (ll-IC) methods. Nodes containing only lTCs are excluded from
the total positive node count for purposes of N classification but should be included in the total number of
nodes evaluated.

Modifier (an): Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are removed. this
modifier should not be used.
Distant Metastasis (M): Not applicable

Ancillary Studies

Estrogen Receptor: Pending

Progesterone Receptor : Pending

HER: Immunoperoxldaaa Studies: Pending

Microcalclflcatlons:
- Present In DCIS

N0":Se~fanmehbruhsalaelasﬂbodiummbnapec(ﬂcnwmﬂu vallderedbyearfoborow.nmdﬂ.rm lief raj-Item bards reg-m Aw.1'haueluar -
IDs-El. Pg! (Jo-Pk. Alli-Nu}. ﬂ-II-EGFI. All Mischa-feel traits an read Mia's-lei «MM. W I m FD I m “I

 

" a” Manubmlonisbyﬁnvmonﬂddﬂswiuenmdoys
A: the attending pathologist, I arrest that I: (i) Examined the relevant preparation“)
for the speculum,- and (ii) Rendered the diagnosisks).

- ‘- ~

Page3of6

 

11—; suneIcAL mum «won a...

"'Electronically Signed Out By'“

ProcedureslAddenda
Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: “
Date Reported:
en um i no

A. Left Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 1 (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.

B. Right Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 1 (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.

C. Right Breast Sentinel Lymph Node # 2, (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.

D. Right Breast sentinel node # 3, (count
- Negative for keratin staining cells.

E. Right Breast sentinel node # 4. (count :
- Negative for keratin staining cells.

G. Right Breast Mastectomy:
- The tumor cells are positive for ER and HERZINeu (3+) and negative for PR.

When
A. Sentinel node # 1 count on left breast. FS: Lymph node. no carcinoma seen.
B. Right breast sentinel node # 2. count , F S: Negative for earclnoma.

C. Right breast sentinel node # 3. count . F S: Negative for carcinoma.
D. Right breast sentinel node # 3. count FS: Negative for carcinoma.
E. Right breast sentinel node it 4. count ’ FS: Negative for carcinoma.

   

Cilg l Histgry:

Left breast biopsy - invasive lobular carcinoma with direct skin involvement 4.5 cm mass left breast anterior depth central to nipple.
4.5 cm biopsy marking clip in upper outer quadrant (calcification) and one in posterior depth in superior lateral quadrant.

O
Bilateral mastectomy with sentinel node biopsy. possible axillary

 

tive
None Previded

 

I- I. - mums

. g SURGICAL PATHOL Report g__

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Sentinel node it 1 count ‘ on left breast. FS
B: Right breast sentinel node it 2. ocunt F S
C: Right breast sentinel node it 3. count a FS
D: Right breast sentinel node it 3. count F S
E: Right breast sentinel node fl 4. count. ., Fs
F: Left breast

G: Right breast

H: Additional superior skin left breast
l'. Left breast additional medial skin

G
A.

ﬂ -—»._.

De ti n-

Received in formalin are four separate tissues. Submitted for frozen section.

The first is one fragment of rubbery. brown-tan tissue that measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in late in cassette
A1 F8.

The second is one fragment of brown-tan rubbery tissue, measuring 2.0 x 1.1 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto cassette
A2Fs.

The third is one fragment of rubbery brOWn-tan tissue that measures 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in into in cassette
A3F S.

The fourth is one fragment of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in lots in cassette
A4Fs.

Received in formalin are two fragments of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm in aggregate.
Submitted in toto in cassette B1FS.

Received in formalin is one fragment of rubbery brown-tan tissue that measures 2.9 x 2.9 x 0.3 cm. The Esaue is
submitted in toto in cassette C1 FS.

Received in formalin is one fragment of brown-tan tissue that measures 2.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in late in cassette
D1Fs.

Received in formalin is one fragment of tan-yellow tissue, measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. Submitted in toto in cassette
E1 Fs.

Received in formalin is a 420 gram left partial mastectomy specimen (17.5 x 15.0 x 5.5 cm) with a white-tan skin ellipse
(12.2 x 7.0 cm). The nipple measures 1.5 cm in diameter. the oracle measures 3.5 cm in diameter. The specimen
resection margins have previously being inked black. The specimen has been previously out. There is a 4.5 x 3.5 x 2.5
cm irregular firm. grey-tan poorly circumscribed mass located centrally in the specimen posterior to the nipple. This mass
lies within 4.0 cm of the deep resection margin. 0.8 cm of the superior resection margin. 5.5 cm of the lateral resection
margin, 2.0 cm of the medial resection margin and 2.0 cm horn the Inferior resection margin. This mass appears to
grossly invade the nipple and skin. The mass also appears to contain minute amounts of hemorrhage and necrosis.
There is a 1.5 x 1 .5 x 0.8 cm irregular white smoothly lobulated mass with a rubbery. firm consistency located 1.5 cm from
the lateral resection margin and 0.1 cm from the deep resection margin. No additional lesions are seen. The remainder

of the breast parenchyma consists of grossly unremarkable adipose tissue with dense white fibrous stroma. Sections
submitted as follows:

1 Nipple

2&3 Superior margin with skin
4 interior margin with skin
5 Deep margin

8 Medial margin

7&8 Breast parenchyma adiacent to 4.5 cm mass
9-12 Composite section of 4.5 cm mass

13 Mass with necrosis

14-17 Additional sections of 4.5 cm mass

18 1.5 cm above described mass

198120 Unremarkable breast tissue

 

Page 5 of 6

 

tale-4!; SURGICAL mm Report -._____.

G. Received in formalin is a 420 gram right simple mastectomy specimen (15.5 x 15.0 x 4.5 cm) with a white-tan skin ellipse
(11.5 x 9.0 cm). The nipple measures 1.7 cm in diameter and the areola measures 5.0 cm in diameter. The surgical
resection margins have been previously inked black. The specimen has been previously out. There is a 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0
cm firm. grey-tan mass with areas of calciﬁcation and hemorrhage. located in the upper outer quadrant as well as the
lower outer quadrant. This mass lies within 1 mm of the nearest resection margin. No additional lesions are seen. The

remainder of the breast parenchyma is dense-white fibrous stroma with unremarkable adipose tissue. Sections submitted
as follows:

Nipple

Skin

Lower outer quadrant

Upper outer quadrant

Lower inner quadrant

Upper inner quadrant

Deep margin

8-11 Mass with nearest resection margin
12—1 7 Representative sections of mass

Nam-5970‘

H. Received in formalin is a fragment of skin with attached adipose tissue. measuring 14.0 x 1.5 cm. The skin is tan-white
and rubbery. No lesions are grossly noted. The specimen is unoriented. Tissue submitted in toto in two cassettes H1-
H7.

l. Received in formalin is an unoriented portion of white-tan skin with attached adipose tissue, measuring 6.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm.
No lesions are grossly appreciated. Submitted in toto in two cassettes A1 -A13.

 

 

 

. "‘“‘ E u— " we...

