UUID216189F51-55EF-49AF-A8DD-7EOBA7CRF7228

iii.'i'ii'.'iI'ii'iii‘iiiii'iiiiiii'ili'.‘.'.'.'.Iiiii“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report
. . ice- 0 ’3
SurgIcaI Pathology Report ca, i I} n z 9 all “or

: 83).?!)
PATIENT: MRN: 3“" WW? “”5 WM
ACCOUNT#: RECEIVED DATE: )1“,
DOB: , PROCEDURE DATE: 9/44
AGE: SEX: M SIGN-OUT DATE: ’
ATTENDING: LOCATION:
REQUESTING:
CONTACT NO: ROOM:
COPIES To:
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Renal mass. right. tumor #1 (resection): Renal cyst lined by atypical Clear cells.

2. Renal mass. right tumor #2 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Fuhrman nuclear grade II.
3. Renal mass, tumor #3 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma with Clear and papillary cell features, see note.
4. Renal mass, right, tumor #4 (resection): Renal cysts lined by atypical clear cells.

5. Renal mass, right. tumor #5 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma with clear and tubular'features, Fuhrman nuclear
grade II.

6. Renal mass, right, tumor #6 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma with clear and tubular features, Fuhrman nuclear
grade II.

7. Renal mass, right, tumor #7 (resection): Renal cyst lined by atypical clear cells.

8. Renal mass. right. tumor #8 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma with clear and tubular features, Fuhrman nuclear
grade II.

9. Renal mass. right, tumor #9 (resection): Renal cell carcinoma with Clear and tubular features, Fuhrman nuclear
grade II.

NOTE: This lesionhas areas reminiscent of a papillary type I carcinoma.

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Allocate Order to Protocol: Brief Clinical History: Right
Renal Masses Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes

 

Surgical Pathology Report

File in Section 3: Tissue Examination
Page 1 of4

 

 

F MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

Name: , Accession No.:
MRN: . Date of Report:

 

 

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: Right Renal Masses Post-Operative Diagnosis:
Right Renal Masses Operative Findings: Multiple cystic and solid
right renal masses measuring 3 cm to 5 mm.

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. KIDNEY, RIGHT. Tumor #1
KIDNEY, RIGHT, Tumor #2
KIDNEY, RIGHT, Tumor #3
KIDNEY. RIGHT. Tumor #4
KIDNEY. RIGHT, Tumor #5
KIDNEY, RIGHT, Tumor #6
KIDNEY. RIGHT, Tumor #7
KIDNEY, RIGHT, Tumor #8
KIDNEY, RIGHT, Tumor #9

SOPT‘P’WPWN

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received fresh are 9 containers labeled with the patient's name, medical record
number, and further described as follows:

1. “Tumor #1 ” is a 1 cm white cyst. The specimen is bisected revealing clear cystic ﬂuid (greater than 80%

cystic). Half of the Specimen is procured for and the remainder is sent to Surgical Pathology. The
specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above description. The specimen is entirely
submitted in a white cassette labeled #1 for permanent processing.

2. “Tumor #2” is a 0.4 cm in diameter white cyst. The specimen is bisected reveatlng a 2 mm yellow nodule inside
the cyst. Half of the specimen is procured for . The remainder is sent to Surgical Pathology. The specimen
is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above description. The specimen is placed in a
biopsy bag and is entirely submitted in a white cassette labeled #2 for permanent processing.

3. “Tumor #3" is a 4 cm nodule partially covered by a fibrous capsule with multiple brown cystic nodules

(approximately 2 mm in diameter) on the surface. The Specimen is bisected revealing a tan, necrotic center. No

procurement IS performed. The outer surface" Is inked In black. The specimen is received“ In Surgical Pathology

and' Is consistent with the above description. Representative sections are submitted' In white cassettes labeled
A-3D for permanent processing.

4. “Tumor #4" is a 1 cm in diameter cyst. The surface is inked in black. The specimen is bisected. One-fourth of
the specimen is sent for procurement for The remainder is sent to Surgical Pathology. The Specimen is
greater than 90% cystic. The specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above
description. The specimen is entirely submitted in a white cassette labeled #4 for permanent
processing.

 

Patient identification Surgical Pathology Report

File in Section 3: Tissue Examination
Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Name: . Accession No.:
MRN: ' Date of Report:

 

 

5. "Tumor #5" iS a 1.7 cm well-circumscribed cystic lesion with white, fibrous capsule. The surface is inked in
black. The specimen is bisected revealing a cystic surface (approximately 5% cystic) with white solid areas.

Approximately 1 cc of tissue not involving the capsule is procured for The remainder is sent to Surgical
Pathology. The specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above description.
Representative sections are submitted in white cassettes labeled 5A and 5B for permanent
processing.

6. "Tumor #6” is a 2 cm diameter cyst with a white capsule. Cut surface is inked in black. The specimen is
bisected revealing a cystic surface (approximately 70% cystic) with a tan nodular area measuring approximately 1
x1 cm. No procurement is performed. The specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the
above description. Representative sections are submitted in white cassettes labeled 6A-SB for
permanent processing.

7. "Tumor #7" is a 0.7 cm in diameter white cystic lesion. The specimen is bisected revealing a Clear ﬂuid. No
procurement is performed. The specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above
description. The Specimen is entirely submitted in a white cassette labeled for permanent
processing.

8. “Tumor #8" is a 3 cm in diameter nodule, well circumscribed. The surface is inked in black. The Specimen is
bisected revealing a tan, variegated cut surface (approximately 20% cystic). Approximately 1 cc of tissue not
involving the capsule is procured for ‘ The remainder is sent to Surgical Pathology. Additionally in the
container is a piece of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4 x 3 x 1 cm with cautery artery artifact. The specimen is
received in Surgical Pathology and is consistent with the above description. Representative sections of the mass
are submitted in white cassettes labeled A-BC. Within the adipose tissue, two putative lymph nodes
are found and submitted in white cassettes labeled . BD and SE for permanent processing.

9. "Tumor #9" is a 2.7 cm in diameter cyst. The surface is inked in black. The mass is bisected revealing a light
tan, cystic surface (greater than 70% cystic). No procurement is performed. The specimen is received in Surgical
Pathology and is consistent with the above description. Representative sections are submitted in white cassettes
labeled A-QC for permanent processing.

The procurements were performed by

Gross dictated by

No consultants

 

Patient identification Surgical Pathology Report

File in Section 3: Tissue Examination
Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name: . ' Accession No.:
MRN: ' Date of Report:
Patient Identification Surgical Pathology Report
File in Section 3: Tissue Examination
Page 4 of 4
Terra, .
Prior 5'“ rimm Y’ i

m rceit +vw'r-

Reviewer

 

