  

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT sari—(15-4942

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right insular tumor: astrocytoma with mitotic activity. see
comment.

2. Right insular tumor: astrocytoma with mitotic activity. see
comment.

Comment:
The tumor in specimens #1 and #2 contains fibrillary astrocytoma
composed of moderately pleomorphic fibrillary astrocytes. Rare but
multiple mitoses are present in both specimens #1 and #2. Two mitotic
f‘" ‘rres are identified in specimen #1 (slide 18) and two mitotic

.gures are identified in specimen #2 (slide 23). The proliferation

index as determined by Ki67 (MlB-i) staining is greater than 5% in
small foci of specimen #2 (slide 2A). The identification of rare

mitoses and a focally elevated proliferation index suggest that this
astrocytic tumor is an astrocytoma (WHO grade ii) in the process of
transformation to a higher grade tumor or that these tumor biopsies are
from a higher grade tumor. Clinical correlation recommended.

Report Electronically Signed

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:

3. Atypical glial cells, highly suspicious for fibrillar astrocytoma.
Chse discussed with
'4. Astrocytoma. No high-grade features identified on representative

 

zen section.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:
Right insular tumor, consistent with glioma

Source of Specimen:
1: Right insular tumor
2: Right insular tumor

Gross Description:

1. Right insular tumor: Received fresh are multiple fragments of
red-tan soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. Touch
preparation slides are created and one half of the specimen is
submitted in one cassette for frozen section. The remainder of the
specimen is entirely submitted in one cassette for permanent section.

Designations:

.f "rozen section control

B. remainder o'f'Specimen” " """

2. Right insular tumor: Received fresh are multiple fragments of
red-tan soft tissue measuring 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. Touch
preparation slides are created and one half of the specimen is
submitted in one cassette for frozen section. The remainder of the
specimen is entirely submitted in one cassette for permanent section.

Designations:

A. frozen section control
B. remainder of specimen

Histology Laboratory
H&E

Part 2: Right insular tumor
DEEPER

i” ’ "PER

Li'xss’TAiNED

 

-
IMMUNOPATHOLOGY
DIAGNOSIS

gfap: positive staining in giial tissue including astrocytic neoplasm.

ki67 (MiB—i ): positive staining in scattered tumor-cell nuclei. smali
foci of tumor show positive staining in approximately 7% of tumor cell
nuclei.

Comment:
See corresponding surgical pathology report _

Report Electronically Signed
This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
r ‘ record.

Specimen(s) Received:
1: RT INSULAR TUMOR

 

