 
 

i ucnu u: r ukuuuo.
Crltcrla

 
 
  
 
 

 

Dianosi: Discre-onq \ lead & Meek Date Of Rece‘pt
Primary Irumar Site Discrepancy ”lead And NGCk Da‘e Of Raped:
EM DISUCpan ’ ACCOUnt #

Prior Mulilnancy History ‘ ' ’
Dull/S nthronous . . t B'mng Type.
Ac...“ """f M Additional Copy to:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

year old with multinodular goiter F NA revealed papillary thyroid cancer. '
UUID:326E3287-2AA6-402A-523D-9E2Fa2656986

Specimens Submitted: TCGA-DJ-A3V7—91A-PR Redacted
Ill lllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllll

1: Total thyroid I]
l

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ll -—.=_—_
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllll: I

 

DIAGNOSIS: ll ill I
1. Total thyroid, thyroidectomy: _

1. Total thyroid:

Part# 1
Tumor Type:
Papillary carcinoma, tall cell variant
2 50 a in! w W PW 75$ [42 a
Mitotic Activity: H

Not identiﬁed

l CD by 3

Ca 'MYYXQ ’ll all colt
Other Tumor Features: . (C\ I W‘ a “4’ 9'
Psammoma bodies 3 3% q) 3

Tumor Location:

Right lob ' .
e ‘ Sllc¢+h~1roi¢ $05
Greatest diameter is 2.2 cm. Cr)? I C)

. .(7,
Tumor Encapsulation: 6 ‘D @D
None identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Size:

Blood Vessel invasion:
Focal Invasion

Extrathyroid Extension:
invadesrperithyroidai ﬁbroadipose tlsue

Surgical Margins:
Microcarcinoma (0.8 cm) is less than 0.5 mm from cauterized surgical margin (left lobe)

Tumor Multlcentricity:
Papillary microcarcinoma; left lobe: three foci, 0.2 cm to 0.8 cm; right lobe: one focus. 0.2 cm

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):
Not identiﬁed
Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

 

Page 1 of2

’ e.

Parathyroid Glands: r I
identiﬁed I
One normocellular parathyroid gland adjacent to the right lobe

Lymph Nodes: ‘
Two benign perithyroidal lymph nodes (0/2)

 

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSlS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLlDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERiAL). AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

h.
"* Repon electronically Signed Out *"

 

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment
RECUT
RECUT
Gross Description: _ W a:
D.

1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "total thyroid, short stitch right superior pole. long stitch left lower pole“, and consists of
a thyroid weighing 32.5 g. The right lobe measures 4.5 x 3.5 x 2 cm. the left lobe measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 2 cm, and the isthmus
measures 1.5 x 1 x 0.4 cm. The external surface is covered by a thin fibrous capsule. The anterior aspect of the thyroid, both right
and left lobe are covered with small piece of skeletal muscle. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black, and the anterior
is inked blue. Sectioning reveals 0.6 cm in diameter well defined nodule in the lower pole of left lobe and an ill defined nodular
lesion in the right lobe, it measures 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. it is firm and abuts the thyroid capsule. elsewhere the thyroid parenchyma is
beefy red. The entire lesions of the left lobe and right lobe are submitted for permanent section. submitted. Photo is taken.

Summary of sections

RLT—right lobe nodule

LLT—left lobe nodule

RLP~right lobe gross normal thyroid tissue
LLP—-ieft lobe gross normal thyroid tissue
lS—isthmus

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: Total thyroid

Block Sect. Site Cs
lS

LLP

LLT

RLP

RLT

mewN
Locomow'u

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

