UUID: 27A97401- 6DBl- 4439- AOGD- EDCC46BDSeCCBac
TCGA- -TQ- A-7-RP 91A- PR

||||

IIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ram—06

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||||IIIIIIIII ‘ I
g 3&6“, '3 I 9384/3
out: WMWaéiff

Nature of material: Brain
Received on: q! 3 I
Macroscopy: bid! 3
Received in formalin, multiple whitish-brown, soft and irregular tissue fragments,
measuring together 6.2 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm and weighing 13.09.

Microscopy:

Histological sections stained with H 8. E demonstrate partial brain parenchymal
infiltration by glial neoplasm composed of two cell populations of oligodendroglial and
astrocytic phenotype. The oligodendroglial component is represented by round nuclei
cells, delicate chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli, with scant cytoplasm. Such cells
infiltrate the adjacent neocortex, in the form of isolated cells, forming small aggregates
around neurons (Neuronal satellitosis). In some areas, there is vacuolation of neuropil,
with formation of microcysts, in basophil-rich and mucinous matrix. The astrocytic
component, less obvious, is represented by cells of irregular nuclei, dense chromatin
and eosinophilic cytoplasm, with imprecise limits, infiltrating predominantly white
substance, which shows areas with refractive neuropil and occasional reactive
astrocytes. Mitotic figures are rare in this material. It was not observed vessels with
microvessel proliferation or areas of necrosis. It is evident, also, some fragments of
neocortex free of involvement by neoplasia.

Diagnosis:

Surgical resection product of lesion in left insula region:

- Compatible with diffuse oligoastrocitoma, grade II in this sample (ICD— 0 9382/3)— see
notes

NOTES:

1. In the sample sent for intraoperative analysis oligoastrocitoma grade II),
there is a predominance of astrocytic component.

2. It must be correlated with neuroimaging studies in order to evaluate the possibility of
higher grade areas were not represented in the material sent for histology.

3. We included all the fragments sent for pathological examination.

PROFESSIONAL PARTICIPANTS OF REPORT

CI lerla
Ont!
Tumor Site

Prior

is
Revieym Initals Date Reviewed:

 

 

 

