UUID: 55754596- 665F- -4DA3- ABEF- CF93A8432FB7C
TCGA- ZY- AQHB- OIA- PR

IIIIIIIIIIII ||||I|IIIII IIIIIIH IIIIIIIIIIIIﬂIIIIII IIItad Wm “03
IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIII w I cm W
Pathology Report Q4") 415,3] ,3 L1

II
III
II

 

Final Diagnosis

A.

GALLBLADDERAND CONTENTS, CHOLECYSTECTOMY:
Chronic choiecvslitis with cholesterosis-
There is no evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma

UVERI SEGMENT 4B, ’HEPATOMA“, SEGMENTAL RES ECTION:

Hepatocellular carcinoma, well to moderately differentiated, arising in a backg'ounn of
cirrhosis- See Key Pathological Findings. See comment.

the attending pathologist, personally reviewed 313;

I,
311.69- anﬂ f on: meeriels and rendered the final diagnosis Electronically
singled out by

Comment

The tumor is immunohistochemically positive for HepPar-l and Giwican 3, and negative for AF?,
cytokeratin 7 and cylokerau‘n 29. The immunostains were performed with appropriate controls. These
results support the. above diagnosis.

Key Pathological Findings
Specimen type: Hepatic segmental resection.
Tumor Size: 2.6 cm in largest diameter.

Hisloiogie type: Hepatooellular carcinoma.
Histology: grade: Wea to moderately differentiated.
fumor necrosis: No necrosis.

Perineural invasion: Not identified.

Venous {large vessel} invasion: Not identified.
Angioiymphalic invasion: Present

Parencnymai margin: Negative of malignancy.
Additional Pathologic Findings: Cirrhosis, moderately active-
Lymph nodes: No Lymph nodes identiﬁed.

Specimenls) Received

A GAUBLADDER AND CONTENTS
3 RESECTION SEGMENT 4B LIVER HEPATOMA GROSS MARGINS
Clinical History

Hepatocellular carcinoma segment 5.

Preoperative Diagnosis
None provided. -

Intraoperative Consultation
GROSS EXAMINATION:

B. RESECTlON SEGMENT 48 LIVER HEPATOMA, GROSS MARGINS:
Tumor, 2 cm from margin.

Comment: This gross section diagnosislresult was communicated to and acknowledged by
in OR;

i, have performed the intraoperative consultation and issued tire above
diagnosis.

Gross Description
A- The specimen is received fresh, labeled “gallbladder and contents“ and consists of an intact
gallbladder 29.9 g, T x 2.4 X 2.4 cm- The serosa is pale green—gray, smooth and glistening. The
resection margin is roughened with cauten’zation. The cystic duct is patent (3 mm diameter). The
lumen contains abundant dark green viscous bile. No calculus is seen. The mucosa is bile-stained
with yellow streaks- The cut surfaces exhibit sort, congested tissuewitn a wal thickness of 1-2 mm.
No lesion is grossly seen. Representative sections, including the cystic duct margin are submitted in
Al-AZ

A1: Cystic. duct margin, tangential.

A2: Representative of neck, body, and tundus mucosa.

The specimen is not submitted for Tissue Procurement {aboratory

B. The specimen is received fresh for gross consult, labeled “resection segment 43 liver
hepaiome," and consists of a red-tan, unoriented, firmI partial hepatectomy specimen. 101.7 g, 6.? x
5.9 x 5 cm. The capsule is intact and bosselated; The margin of resection is inked blue. The cut
surfaces exhibit a light green—tan, circumscribed, ﬁrm, tabulated tumor mass, 2.6 cm diameter. The
mass approximates the capsule separated by a thin membrane, and is 1.9 cm. tram nearest resection
margin. The mass abuts vasculature; however, appears to be unaffected. Necrosis is minimal, and
no cyst or hemorrhage is seen. The remaining parendryma Is tan-gray, marsely tabulated and
smooth. Representative sections are submitted in 81-85 as labeled:

81: Mass to nearest resection margin.

32433; Mass with capsule and adjacent vasculature.

84: Mass with capsule and potential satellite lesion (it mm},
85: Normal parenchyma.

The specimen is submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory, as reﬂected in cassette 32-

 

 

 

