"umtestostero-rimmed.cm,
llllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllll
iulilmlmmmummminllllliii'iiiiiiii'iiim

llllllllllllllilllllllIlllillllilliilllllilillllllllllll

 

 

r...—

_ Surgical Pathology 1* , Final Results
Surgical Pathology Final

CASE NUMBER:

DIAGNOSIS: Mass. adrenal gland, left, resection: Pheochromocytoma,

no vascular or capsular invasion. See Note.

NOTE: lmmunohistochemical studies for 8100. synaptophysin and

chromogranin are performed at ’he neoplastic cells are strong and ,
diffusely positive for $100, synaptophysin and chromogranin. This i
staining pattern is consistent with the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.

lmmunoperoxidase and in~situ hybridization tests performed here and i
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics =
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been

 

cleared or approved by the”U‘.‘S':"F-‘ood and“Drug’AdministrationfThe-FBAﬂm-——~-~-~—-——— i
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. ‘
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement

Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity

clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Brief Clinical History: pheochromocytoma on left
Specimen Taken For
Protocol: 01 - Yes Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: pheochromocytoma on left adrenal .
Post—Operative i
Diagnosis: pheochromocytoma Pre~0perative Diagnosis: pheochromocytoma

SPECIMENS SUBMlTTED: ’l. ADRENAL MASS, LEFT, Gland and mass

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received fresh in a container labeled with the
patient's name, medical record number. and "left adrenal gland mass".
it is a specimen weighing 22.8 grams and measuring 8 x 6 x 2 cm overall
consisting of a well»circumscribed nodule measuring 3.5 x 3 x 2 cm with
associated adipose tissue measuring 6 x 1.5 x 1 cm in which there is
nonnal—appearing adrenal gland measuring 4 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm from which
the nodule arises. Gross photographs are taken. The nodule is
bisected revealing a partially cystic and partially friable solid cut
surface. Approximately 50% of solid tumor is procured for
and 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm of solid tumor for 50% of
alternating sections of the normal—appearing adrenal gland are procured
also for l Also procured are 2 x i x 0.5 cm of adipose
tlssue for i The remainder of the specimen is placed
into formalin and submitted to Pathology for oennenent processing. The
procurement was performed by

. in Surgical Pathology, the specimen received matches the above
description. Representative sections from the tumor mass are submitted
in cassettes ' Representative sections of grossly normal adrenal

i. ollriiicrzl'isl Patient ini‘on‘lxt‘iixln. Unz‘rtidmrmztl disclosure is pi‘i‘itii’ltxti in zip; Federal i‘rzi-rit't :‘s‘it u: it}? 3013")? ‘

Requested By: 1 ‘ Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

Surgical Pathglggy [Orderllh

gland are submitted in cassette ’

formalin.

Gross Description dictated by

No consultants

Accessioned:

Final Report Signed Out: '

fﬁesident Signature>

 

<SignOut Dr Signature?

Date Report Signed:

Requested By: T

4
\.

'm‘irisEvmt;:i P itizz'u‘ Sm:

*-

The remaining tissue is saved in

_:c_.iit’.-Ia ’1‘4/ 7/97 5 I I \ Yes No

Final Resultsl

 

Dézgnusis QISFI‘CKﬁt'CV

Pmmry Tumor Site Discrepancy ‘

 

HM; Discrapancy

 

pm. Malignancy Hiwrv

Uqai/chivwmus i‘: imary W

n." a». w y.

 

 

 

(69¢ 15 (time):
Reviewer inxtiais

 

mmé‘imi Ejnzmthormt zingxgiosxiw ix‘ gmft: Mist“? bf; 522: fig-4mm Pita-tau“;

  
   
 
 

 

Qbmnm I [SEQUALIFIhL _ﬁ_
at: Rewcwed' _ {g ’ V~~

i i I

,‘utt. (if 2‘)“: 4. Job“):

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

