UUID: CIBBA31FOB-13FC-I763- -964C- 89AECCA§Be1a1act

IIICIIEd
TSS Patient ID: IIII IIIIIIICIG IIIIII IIII IIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII
II I II

I
IIIIII
I iIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImmI

Surgical Date:

Gross Description: Pancreas: Received is a Whipple specimen measuring 17 x 8 x 5 cm,

consisting of duodenum (15 cm in length x 4.5 cm depth) and pancreas (8 x
5.4 x 2 cm). The proximal and distal margins of the duodenum are received
closed. The duodenum is opened to reveal a duodenal mucosa with normal
folding pattern, with the more distal portion of the duodenal mucosa
appearing darker and congested. Additionally, there is a wire mesh stent
protruding from the ampulla for a distance of 1.2 cm.

The pancreas is received with multiple surgical stitchs, a long single

black stitch designates the deep radial margin, 3 long single blue stitch
designates the portal vein margin, a looped blue stitch designates the
superior mesenteric artery margin, and a looped black stitch designates the
proximal duodenal margin. The proximal duodenal margin near the area of
the looped black stitch is removed and submitted for frozen section. This
tissue is resubmitted entirely. The pancreatic neck margin measures 1.6 x
1.5 cm and is inked orange. The vascular groove is inked blue and the
remaining radial pancreatic margin is inked black. The pancreas is

serially sectioned to reveal a pale tan to white mass that measures 2.7 x
2.2 x 1.6 cm. The mass is 1.4 cm from the SMA margin, 1.2 cm from the
portal vein margin, 3 cm from the deep radial margin, and 1 mm from the
nearest radial margin. The common bile duct is identified and has a
diameter of 0.2 cm. Additionally, the common bile duct is probe patent
through the ampulla. A longitudinal cut is made along the common bile duct

to reveal the aforementioned wire mesh stent. The stent measures 6.3 cm in

C. K?
”@719
macs/H, rmgpyq-JWJ

9/949

(.7 ﬁlm) W{ ”WW
g‘Q/Vﬂ'ﬁr/

3

9/

“(12917

r i
L
-.

$5."-

length and has a diameter of 1.2 cm. A probe is inserted into the main
pancreatic duct at pancreatic neck margin. The main pancreatic duct is not
probe patent and a longitudinal cut made along the duct determines the
lumen is being obstructed by the mass. Of note, representative sections
and frozens were taken of the common bile duct margin, pancreatic margin,
and duodenal margin and are resubmitted entirely. The remainder of the
pancreatic parenchyma is firm, pale tan to yellow with no additional
distinct masses or lesions noted.

Microscopic Description:

Diagnosis Details: Pancreas and duodenum, pancreaticoduodenectomy:

- Invasive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, of the pancreatic head

- Tumor size: 2.7 cm in greatest dimension

- Tumor focally infiltrates peripancreatic fat

- Surgical margins are negative for malignancy; Tumor is 0.1 cm from nearest radial margin (slide 011)
- Perineural invasion identified

- No angiolymphatic invasion identified

- Eighteen regional lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/18)

- Pathologic stage (AJCC 7th edition): pT3 NO

Specimen: Head of pancreas, Duodenum Common bile duct, Gallbladder
Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial pancreatectomy
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head

Tumor size greatest dimension: 2.7cm

Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade (ductal carcinoma only): 63

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissues

AJCC Stage (7th Edition) (pTNM)

Primary Tumor (pT): pT3

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO

Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 18
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Pancreatic neck margin: Negative

Portal vein margin: Negative

Superior mesenteric artery margin: Negative
Deep radial margin: Negative
Duodenom/gastric margin: Negative

Jejunal margin: Negative

Treatment Effect: No prior treatment
Angiolymphatic Invasion: Absent

Perineural Invasion: Present

Additional Pathologic Findings: Chronic pancreatitis
Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: PANCREAS TlSSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Pancreatoduodenectomy
Tumor site: Head

Tumor size: 2.7 cm

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, ductal type
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor extent: Other - Peripancreatic fat

Lymph nodes: 0/18 positive for metastasis (Regional 0/18)

Lymphatic invasion: Absent

Venous invasion: Absent

Margins: Uninvolved

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified

Comments: None

Prior

Case
Reviewer initials

 

