 

WID: 532F109F- DEDF- 4999- BFIB- ESCDEDIRAEEBSDC
TCGA- 26-MGI-01A-PR

Concerning

Summary pathology report

Department of Pathology

Direct dial -

Mobile:

lntomal postal address
Email

Date

Postal address

Sheetaddress

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (EC 75%. MT 10%, SE 10%, YST 5%, scattered
trophoblastic giant cells); diameter 2.5 cm; tumor conﬁned to testis; no angio—invasion present;
no invasion of rete testis (pagetoid extension of lTGCNU in epithelium of rete).

Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy):

pathologist

professor of pathology

ICED-(135

WMWMTE

908 5Z5
state; @71th ms
0 (A .2 7
Qﬂ Q 17W!

8w ﬂ£dstdliow

1M5“, MAW
”1.171701! {9“,}, ”(RM fwﬁvvfff‘?
Who-2. /07.
lo 2

(1M 1M,

Prior

Case
Reviewer initials

 

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form “‘00

 

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions: The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T58): T85 Identiﬁer: TSS Uniq’ue Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenCIinica): __ _Completed Date:
‘Diagnosis Information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis / histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis CT ; SE (10 5g) + EC (7 5 3;) , the initial pathology report for this case. lithe histology for
1 Provided on Initial ___——————-——- this case is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.

PathologyReport MT (10%), YST (5%)

 

MT (65%) , IT (2 0%) . EC (1 0%) I YST ( 5 35) Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case

HlStOIOglc features 0f Quality Control Form completed for this case.

the sample provided
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

3 Provide the reaSOn for Due to the histological heterogeneous Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the

' ' t‘ f o — 'no the
the dlscrepancy constltu 10n o n n semi mas, diagnosisselectedontheTCGACase QualityControl Form.

between the pathology representation of the different
I‘EPOI‘t and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected
Case Quality Control to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form- samples of the same case.

However, the components are monoclonal
in origin.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or _ f‘” TCGA-
Biorepository Director

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy ln diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature Date

 

 

