/cA/oz3

CWa-nqal aﬂfmﬁwm, Nor
Slfl.‘ W NIL< C504 A; 4/}7/H

UUID:sccacaaF-7eF6-458A-as£5-1sanco745574
TCGA-A7-A253-01A-PR Redacted

 

Date Coll:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast silk on superior breast

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer.
CLINICAL HISTORY: -year-old white female with cancer.
POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh labeled "left axillary node" is a 3.8 x
2.4 x 0.6 cm. portion of soft, lobulated golden—yellow
adipose tissue. Two (2) slightly rubbery tan-pink tissues in
keeping with lymph node measuring 0.8 and 1.8 cm. in greatest
dimension are recovered. The specimen is entirely submitted in
three blocks as labeled:

BLOCK SUMMARY: #A1,A2 — One (1) bisected lymph node per cassette;
*1 adipose tissue.

8. Received fresh labeled "left breast" is a 21.5 cm

(superior to inferior) x 20.5 cm (medial to lateral) x 3.8
cm (anterior to posterior) diffusely cauterized soft, lobulated
tan—gold—white portion of fibroadipose tissue in keeping with breast
designated as left per requisition slip and container and oriented
by a single suture as stated previously. A 7.2 cm (medial to
lateral) x 4.7 cm (superior to inferior) tan—white skin ellipse is
present along the anterior aspect. The intact deep margin is inked
black and the specimen is sectioned. There is a central, stellate,
3.0 cm (medial to lateral) x 2.2 cm (superior to inferior) x 2.0 cm
(anterior to posterior) rubbery tan—white lesion at the junction of
the four quadrants with several cylindrical tan-white structures in
keeping with site of prior needle core biopsy. A portion of the
lesion and a portion of normal are submitted for tissue procurement
as requested. The lesion is present within 0.8 cm of the skin
surface in the vicinity of the nipple and is within 0.5 cm of the
inked deep margin. The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the
specimen consists predominantly of glistening lobulated golden
yellow adipose tissue with a moderate amount of interspersed dense
tan—white fibrous tissue. No additional mass lesion or abnormality
is identified. Three rubbery white—pink tissues in keeping with
lymph nodes measuring up to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension are
recovered from the lateral aspect of the specimen. Representative
sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-2 - Tumor to inked deep margin; 3-4 - tumor to
skin (4 includes nipple); 5—6 - tumor to adjacent parenchyma; 7 -
random upper outer quadrant; 8 - upper inner quadrant; 9 — lower
inner quadrant; 10 — lower outer quadrant; ll - two whole lymph
nodes; 12 - one bisected lymph node.

YEW/3

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type: Ductal (with lobular features)
Histologic grade: III
Overall grade: 8/9
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 2
Greatest dimension (pT): 3.0 cm
Specimen margins: Negative
Vessel invasion: Present
Calcification: Negative
Nipple (Paget's): Carcinoma involves the deep nipple tissue, and
is present in the deep dermis within the skin adjacent to the
nipple (areolar area).
Invasion of skin or chest wall: As above.

Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Histologic pattern: Cribriform
Nuclear grade: 3
Central necrosis: Present
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): < 10%
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): Absent
Specimen margins: Negative
Calcification: Negative

Description of non—tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes,
fibroadenomata.

Comments: Prior biopsy site identified within the main tumor mass.
There is an additional satellite nodule of invasive tumor, 2 mm in
greatest dimension, in the lower outer quadrant, away from the main
tumor mass, and associated with ductal carcinoma in-situ. This
focus of invasive tumor is 2 mm from the deep margin.

Lymph nodes: Two negative sentinel lymph nodes, and two negative
additional lymph nodes (0/4).

Prognostic markers: See previous report,

4x2

DIAGNOSIS
A. Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy:
Two negat've lymph nodes (0/2).
E. Breast, deft mastectomy:
Invasive ductal carcinoma, grade III, 3.0 cm in greatest
imension. "~’
Negative margins of excision.
Lymphovascular invasion identified.
Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).

»‘ ectronic Signature)

-—— End Of Report —--

 

