  

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

* Addended *

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

1. Lung: RT. UPPER LOBE NODULE” QUICK SECTION
2. LUNGS: Right middle lobe nodule/cl
3. Lymph node: Interlobar STllR.
4. Lymph node: Interlobar STllR
5. Lymph node: Right TB angle STlOR
LUNGS: RLL— bronchial resection margin-
. LUNGS: RUL margin
8. Bone: Anterior margin — rib 5th
9. Bone: Anterior margin - 4th rib
10. Bone: Resection margin — 3rd rib
11. Bone: Ribs #3 and #4
12. LUNGS: Resection margin 4th intercostal space
13. LUNGS: Resection margin 5th intercostal space
DIAGNOSIS
1. Right upper lobe lung wedge resection:
— Squamous cell carcinoma with invasion into attached chest wall tissue.
(pm)
Right middle lobe nodule wedge resection:
a Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. (le)
3. Interlobar STllR lymph node:
~ Positive for metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. (le)
Interlobar STllR:
~ Negative for malignancy, lymph node.
5. Right TB angle STlOR:

Negative for malignancy, lymph node.

Right lower lobe lung lobectomy:
Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, 4.3 cm in greatest

Page: 1 of

TCGA 48—3414

 

diameter. ,
— Visceral pleura invasion noted. .
— 1 Out of 8 lobar peribronchial lymph node positive for metastaSis.

— Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor.
— Satellite (1 cm away) intralobar metastatic nodule, 0.5 cm in greatest

diameter. {pT4)
— Remaining lung parenchyma shows mild—moderate emphysema.

7. Right upper lobe margin:
Negative for malignancy, emphysema and focal organizing pneumonia.

Anterior margin 5th rib:
Pending.

9. Anterior margin 4th rib:
— Pending.

10. Resection margin 3rd rib:
— Negative for malignancy, fibrosis.

11. Ribs #3 and #4:
— Negative for malignancy, skeletal muscle and fibroadipose tissue Wlth

fibrosis.

12. Resection margin 4th intercostal space:
— Negative'for malignancy, fibroadipose tissue.

13. Resection margin 5th intercostal space:
~ Negative for malignancy, fibroadipose tissue with nerve trunk.

COMMENT
All tumors show similar histology, thus tumors in right upper and middle

lobes are consistent with metastasis.

[INICAL HISTORY
5A LUNG

 

Page: 2 of 6

 

 

 

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION .
1. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "right

upper lobe nodule 98" contains a wedge of lung tissue received fresh in
the measuring 6 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm. There is a staple line along one side.
The visceral pleura is intact and the partly covered by adhesed
fibrofatty tissue. 0n sectioning there is a firm non-circumscribed .
gray—tan nodular lesion that grossly extends beyond the visceral pleura
and into the adhesed fibrofatty tissue. The lesion measures
approximately 5.5 cm in maximum diameter and extends grossly to within
".3 cm of the staple line margin. Very minimal peripheral normal lung
.ssue is identified. A representative section is eramined at
intraoperative consultation by frozen section. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:
1A.frozen section resubmitted
lB shaved resection margin at staple line
10,1D tumor with adhesed fibrofatty tissue on the pleura.

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right
middle lobe nodule QS" contains a piece of lung tissue measuring
approximately 1.5 cm in maximum diameter. There is a 0.1 cm nodule in
the sub pleura. A representative section to include the nodule is
examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section.

2A frozen section resubmitted -

3. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"interlobar STllR/QS" contains a piece of a soft tissue measuring up to 1
cm in diameter. It is examined in toto at intraoperative consultation by
frozen section.

3A frozen Section resubmitted.

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"interlobar ST 11R" contains one gray-black lymph node received in a 10%
buffered formalin. It measures 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm.

4A submitted in toto

5. The specimen centainer labeled with the patient's name and as "right
TB angle ST 10R" contains one gray—black lymph node received in 10%
tffered formalin. It measures 1 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm.
a submitted in toto.

 

 

Page: 3 of 6

 

 

6. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "right

lower lobe -- Bronchial resection margin/Q3“ contains a lobe of lung

received in a 10% buffered formalin. rIt measures 15 x 10 x 5.5 cm. The

visceral pleura is intact. There is a puckered somewhat indurated area

within the superolateral aspect and the adjacent visceral pleura appears

somewhat edematous. The bronchial resection margin is examined en face

at intraoperative consultation by frozen section. On sectioning the lung

a peripheral tumor mass is present within the puckered area. The tumor

measures 4.3 cm in the fresh state and 3.9 cm post formalin fixation. It

is firm and tan—gray. Grossly it extends right to the puckered pleura.

rt is 2.5 cm away from the bronchial resection margin. Approximately 1
1 away from the tumor there are two solitary gray-black to tan black

nodules measuring 0.3 and 0.5 cm respectively. The tan black nodule

abuts the pleura. No other nodules grossly identified. The remaining

parenchyma shows some mild emphysematous changes. Several lobar lymph

nodes are retrieved the largest measuring 0.7 cm. Representative

sections are submitted as follows:

6A bronchial resection margin, frozen section resubmitted

6B two lobar lymph nodes

GC three lobar lymph nodes

6D one lobar lymph node bisected

6E—6G large tumor with puckered pleura

6H one half of the 0.5 cm tan black nodule

61 the remaining one half of the tan black nodule and the 0.3 cm

gray—black nodule ' g 7

6J,6K nontumorous lung parenchyma to include emphysematous area

7. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right
upper lobe margin" contains two wedges of lung tissue received in a 10%
buffered formalin. They measure 2.5 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm and 4 x 1.5 x 1 cm.
Each has a staple line present. The lung parenchyma is tan-gray with
anthracotic pigment admixed. No lesions grassly identified. The
visceral pleura is somewhat rough.

7A,?B representative sections from both pieces submitted.

8. The specimen c0ntainer labeled with the patient‘s name and as
"anterior margin —— fifth rib" contains one piece of grossly unremarkable
tan bone received in 10% buffered formalin. It measures 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.5
‘m.It is decalcified and bisected.

. submitted in toto

Page: 4 of

 

 

  

 

 

 

9. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"anterior margin ~~ fourth rib“ contains one piece of grossly
unremarkable tan bone received in a 10% buffered formalin. It measures
1.5 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm. it is decalcified and bisected.

9A submitted in toto

10. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"resection margin third rib" contains two pieces of yellowish tan soft
tissue and bone received in 10% buffered formalin. They measure 0.3 x
0.2 x 0.2 cm each.

10A submitted in toto.

11. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "ribs
three and four!I contains one piece of unoriented tissue consisting of two
tan ribs with attached fibrofatty tissue and muscle received in 10%
buffered formalin. It measures 7.5 x 5 x 1.8 cm. The surface of the
soft tissue is painted with silver nitrate. On sectioning no gross
abnormality noted. '

11A,113 representative soft tissue submitted.

12. The Specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as

"resection margin forth intercostal space" contains one piece of

' tan-brown soft tissue received in 10% buffered formalin.It measures 0.7 x
0.5 x 0.3 cm. -

12A submitted in toto

13. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"resection margin fifth intercostal space“ contains one piece of
yellowish to tanvbrown soft tissue received in 10% buffered formalin. It
measures 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm.

13A submitted in toto.

 

QUICK SECTION

1A - "SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA"
2A.- "POST FOR SCC" '
3A.— "MET SQ. CELL CA"

 

' - "NEGATIVE"

  

Page: 5 of

 

 

 

 

Addendum Status: Signed Out

Addendum Diagnosis ‘
8, 9. Bone, anterior margins, 5th and 4th ribs:
— Negative for malignancy, normal bone and marrow. (x2)

Page:

6 of

6

 

 

