UUID: 3197D149- BCFO- 4644- 3192- F7BBSOZBAF4eSd
TCGA- CU- A3QU -01A- PR

SURGICAL pm: I” lllHlllllllllllllllllllQlUlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllldllllllltedI
Case Number: ||||l Ill Hlllllllllllllllllllll

lllllll l
Ill llll llllIIlIIIllIIl | lllll II I ll llllllllllllll | l | lllllllll II III

Diagnosis:
FSA: Ureter margin, left, biopsy
- No tumor identified

 

FSB: Ureter margin, right, biopsy
— No tumor identified

3C£>O 3
C: Lymph nodes, common iliac, dissection caFCUVUnq ufo¥hcha(r303
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/3) $f2ﬂbfg
' - ' cLu k3§>5
D: Lymph nodes, presacral, dissection 5l465b3a-6‘ I
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/6) CJJ_Lq

3—3541 £0
E: Lymph nodes, right external iliac, dissection
— Metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/7)
— Size of lymph node metastasis: 1.5 mm
— Extracapsular extension: not identified

Lymph nodes, right obturator, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/12)

G: Lymph nodes, left common iliac, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/5)

H: Lymph nodes, left external iliac, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/12)

I: Lymph nodes, left obturator, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/9)

J: Ureter, right proximal, excision
— No carcinoma identified

K: Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy

Bladder:

Tumor histologic type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma
Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification): High grade

Macroscopic tumor size (greatest dimension): 7.5 cm

Microscopic extent of invasion: Into deep (outer half)
muscularis propria

1

Tumor site/focality of tumor: Unifocal
Angiolymphatic space invasion: Present

Associated epithelial lesions: Papillary urothelial carcinoma,
high grade(K3)

Ureters: Not involved; right UVJ involved (K11); left UVJ not
involved

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Ureter, left: negative (specimen A)
Ureter, right: negative (specimen B)
Urethra: negative

Paravesicular soft tissue: negative

Other significant findings: Prostate and seminal vesicles: no
HGPIN or invasive carcinoma identified

Lymph nodes:
— All separately submitted (specimens C—I): metastatic
urothelial carcinoma in 1/54 total

Size and location of largest lymph node metastasis: Right
external iliac lymph node, 1.5 mm metastasis (E1)

Extracapsular extension: Not identified

Diagnoses of other organs or structures: chronic and acute
prostatitis and urethritis

AJCC Stage (Bladder primary): pT2b le pr

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

L: Ureter, left proximal, biopsy
— No carcinoma identified

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section consultation was requested.

FSAl: Ureter, left, margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSBl: Ureter, right, margin, biopsy

— NO tumor seen

Clinical Historv:

—year—old with pathologic T1, but clinical T3 N1 based
upon imaging papillary urothelial carcinoma of the bladder.
There has been no neoadjuvant therapy.

Gross Description:
Received are eleven appropriately labeled containers. Specimens
A and B are received fresh for frozen section.

Container A is additionally labeled "left ureteral margin." The
specimen is a 6 x 6 x 3 mm white/tan tube of soft tissue that is
entirely submitted as FSAl,

Container B is additionally labeled "right ureteral margin." The
specimen is an 8 x 8 x 2 mm white/tan tube of soft tissue
(dilated lumen) that is entirely submitted as FSBl,

Container C is additionally labeled "right common iliac lymph
node." It holds a 4 x 2.7 x 1.2 cm aggregate of fibroadipose
tissue fragments.

Block summary:

C1 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

C2 — one elongated lymph node candidate, halved
C3-C4 — remainder of specimen,

Container D is additionally labeled "presacral lymph node." The
container holds a 3.5 x 1.6 x 0.9 cm fibroadipose soft tissue
fragment.

Block summary:

D1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

D2 — one lymph node candidate

D3 _ remainder of specimen,

Container E is additionally labeled "right external iliac
nodes." The container holds a 6 x 5 x 1 cm aggregate of
fibroadipose tissue fragments.

Block summary:

E1 — one 2.1 cm lymph node, trisected

E2 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

E3 — one 1.5 cm lymph node, bisected

E4 — one 1.6 cm lymph node, bisected

E5-E7 — one 3.5 cm lymph node

E8-E11 — additional fibroadipose tissue with possible lymph node
candidate

Fibrofatty tissue remains in the container.

Container F is additionally labeled "right obturator lymph
nodes." The container holds a 6.5 x 5.5 x 1.2 cm aggregate of
fibroadipose tissue fragments.

Block summary: _

F1 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

F2 - multiple lymph node candidates

F3 — multiple lymph node candidates

F4—F6 — representative sections of one large elongated fatty
replaced 5.5 cm

lymph node

F7,F8 — additional fibroadipose tissue with possible lymph node
candidate

Fatty tissue remains in the container.

Container G is additionally labeled "left common iliac lymph
node." The container holds a 3.5 x 3.2 x 1.0 cm aggregate of
fibroadipose tissue fragments.

Block summary:

G1 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

G2,G3 — fibroadipose tissue with multiple possible lymph node
candidates

Fatty tissue remains in the container.

Container H is additionally labeled "left external iliac lymph
nodes." The container holds a 5 x 4.9 x 1.3 cm aggregate of
fibroadipose tissue fragments.

Block summary:

H1,H2 - one 3.1 cm lymph node, bisected

H3 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

H4 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

H5 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

H6—H8 - multiple lymph node candidates each cassette

Fatty tissue remains in the container.

Container I is additionally labeled "left obturator lymph
nodes." The container holds a 4.8 x 3.1 x 1.4 cm aggregate of
fibroadipose tissue fragments.

Block summary:

11 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

I2,I3 - one 3 cm lymph node, bisected

I4,I5 - remainder of specimen,

Container J is additionally labeled "right proximal ureter." The

container holds a 2 x 1.1 cm white/tan soft tissue fragment with
a patent lumen and stitch and clips on one side. The specimen is
sectioned perpendicular to the lumen. Sectioning closest to the
stitch, encases the margin, and is inked blue. The specimen is
submitted in block J1,

Container K is additionally labeled "bladder and prostate." The
container holds a cystoprostatectomy specimen with overall
measurements of 4.5 x 11 x 10 cm. The prostate measures 4.3 cm
superior to inferior, 2.7 cm anterior to posterior, and 4.3 cm
side to side. Inking: right perivesical soft tissue=blue, left
perivesical soft tissue=black, distal urethral margin=yellow.
The entire bladder mucosa is involved by a large 4.7 x 6.3 x 7.5
cm white/tan papillary friable white/tan mass with a shaggy
surface filling the lumen of the bladder. On cross section, the
thickness of the bladder wall from the top of the tumor to inked
soft tissue margin is 4.7 cm. The mass invades into the
muscularis propria and is 2.0 cm from the inked soft tissue
surface at the deepest point of invasion in right bladder
sidewall

Block summary:

K1 - distal urethral margin, en face

K2,K3 — representative sections of the superficial portion of
the tumor

K4 — bladder dome, representative sections

K5 — posterior bladder midline

K6 — posterior bladder midline

K7 — bladder trigone midline

K8 — prostatic urethra, posterior midline

K9,K10 — right bladder sidewall, full thickness section at
deepest invasion,

section bisected

K9 superficial

K10 deep

K11 — right UVJ

K12 — right ureter and vas deferens margins in this specimen, en
face

K13—K16 - representative right prostate and seminal vesicle

K17 — left ureter and vas deferens margin in this specimen

K18 — left bladder sidewall

K19,K20 — left UVJ

K21,K22 - tumor in relation to left prostate lobe

K23-K25 - representative left prostate and left seminal vesicle

Container L is additionally labeled "left proximal ureter." The
container holds a 0.9 x 0.2 cm white/tan soft tissue fragment
with lumen with a clip. The specimen is bisected to aide in
orientation and totally submitted in block Ll,

Light Microscopy:

The frozen section diagnoses are confirmed. Invasive carcinoma
is identified in blocks K2—5, K9, K11, and K21. No prostatic
invasion is noted. No prostatic carcinoma is noted.

