 

 

105-0’3
0W6! . mime, ewWMh‘L . N“

UUID: F8315322- 27A6- 407A- BCDC- BASEBCASBBBeEd
TCGA- BK- A13B- 91A- PR

(1W0
Immmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmled _ 938d? A“ ’K
IHMMMMWMWWHWWMWMW $hddmdNWvCS%l

INWWMWMWWWMWMMMMW

SPECIMEN \
A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes & ovaries
B. Left pelvic lymph node
C. Right pelvic lymph node
D. Periaortic lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Endometrial cancer

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh in a container labeled "uterus, cervix,
bilateral tubes & ovaries" is a 157 gm, 7.5 x 5.7 x 5.7
cm,
globoid uterine corpus, with contiguous 3 cm long cervix, and
bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries. The serosal surface is
smooth tan~pink to tan-red, with a few rubbery whorled to focally
calcified tan-white subserosal and intramural nodules compatible
with leiomyomas, up to 4.6 cm in greatest dimension, with the
largest leiomyoma located posteriorly. The annular 3 cm
tan—pink-red ectocervix surrounds a l x 0.3 cm ovoid patent os.
The
uterus is opened. The 6 x 4.8 cm endometrial cavity contains
fragmented friable pale—tan tumor which appears to be originating
from the posterior wall. The anterior portion of endometrial
cavity
is lined by flattened tan—pink endometrium 0.1 cm thick. The
posterior endometrial wall is completely covered by the friable
tumor, which is up to 3.2 cm thick, and grossly invasdes through
>50% of the myometrial thickness. The tumor appears to involve the
lower uterine segment, but not the cervix. The endocervical canal
is tan—pink and glistening, without focal lesions. Bilaterally,
the
tan-pink—gold ovaries average 2 x 1.4 x 1 cm. On cut surface, they
are tan and without focal lesions. The centrally discontinuous
tan—white right and left fallopian tubes end in fimbriae, and they
average 3.8 cm long x 0.5 cm in diameter. On cut surface, they
have
pinpoint to stellate lumina.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
BLOCK SUMMARY: Al - anterior cervix; A2 — anterior LUS (point of
continuity with cervix inked blue); A3-A6 - representative anterior
endomyometrium, sequentially from fundus to LUS; A7 — posterior
cervix; A8 — posterior LUS (point of continuity with cervix inked
blue); A9—Al4 — representative posterior endomyometrium, including
full thickness uterine wall, sequentially from fundus to LUS
(blocks
lO&ll, and 12&l3, are paired bisected sections, with point of
continuity between the sections inked, together making up complete
cross-sections); A15,Al6 - additional leiomyomas; A17 — right

fallopian tube and ovary; A18 — left fallopian tube and ovary.

B. Received fresh in a container labeled "left pelvic

node" is a 6.6 x 6 x 2.1 cm. aggregate of soft lobulated
yellow adipose tissue with interspersed soft tan-pink-gold lymph
nodes, up to 4 cm in greatest dimension. , with all lymph
nodes submitted.

BLOCK SUMMARY: Bl - four lymph nodes; B2 — one bisected lymph
node;

83,84 — one quadrisected lymph node; B5—B7 ~ one sectioned lymph

node; B8—BlO - one sectoned lymph node.

C. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic lymph node" is a
6.7 x 5.6 x 2 cm aggregate of similar-appearing tissue,
with lymph nodes up to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. , with
all
lymph nodes submitted.

BLOCK SUMMARY: Cl — three lymph nodes; C2—C4 — one sectioned lymph
node per block; C5—C8 - largest lymph node sectioned.

D. Received fresh in a container labeled "periaortic
lymph
node" is a 4.8 x 3.6 x 1.6 cm aggregate of
similar—appearing tissue, with lymph nodes up to 3 cm in greatest
dimension. . with all lymph nodes submitted.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

BLOCK SUMMARY: D1 — five lymph nodes; D2 - four lymph nodes; D3 —
one sectioned lymph node.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
The following template summarizes the findings in this
case:

Histologic type: ,Endgmetrigid adenocarcinoma present in the uterus

in part A. There are foci wiEB‘EEEEESﬁs differentiation.

Histologic grade: EIEQ/gradelﬁl

Myometrial invasion: There is invasion through greater than 50% of

the myometrial wall.

Cervix: Although tumor involves the lower uterine segment

posteriorly, the tumor does not extend to invade stromal connective
tissue of the cervix.

 

 

 

 

Primary tumor (pT) TNM (FIGO): ple [IB]. Tumor invades greater
than one-half of the myometrium.
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.
Lymph~vascular invasion: Identified focally.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO. The separately submitted lymph
nodes in parts B, C, and D are negative for malignancy.
Distant metastasis (pM): pMX
Other findings: The fallopian tubes and ovaries are negative for
malignancy.
Leiomyomas.
Note: Dr. has reviewed representative slides and
concurs.

4x3,5

DIAGNOSIS
A. Uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, excision
— Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with foci with squamous

 

differenti. ’ n,
FIGO"grade_3, invading through >50% of the myometrium, with
{a focal lymph-vascular invasion (see microscopic

description).
- Tumor extends to involve the lower uterine segment, but
there is no stromal connective tissue invasion of the cervix.

- Leiomyomas.
- Fallopian tubes and ovaries negative for malignancy.

B. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision
~ Eight lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

C. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision
~ Seven lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

D. Lymph nodes, periaortic, excision
— Ten lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

(Electronic Signature)

--- End Of Report ---

 

