-EBSO- H4345- BADO- 05D27BBZD86D
UUID: .4F1GS7_857- -A3R H- 0A1 _ PR dacted

IIIIIIIIIIII|I|||IIIIIII|IIII|III|II|IIIaIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIlIIlIIlIIlIIIIII IIII I (J? 0 3

IlIllIlIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII (LNG r7 oma Pa ,7: I I a V\{ 1

( 04)
Final Surgical Pathology Report F75 “I LUK (“r \ICL I +

8340/5
Procedure: éI‘IC ,W\‘mAII\IOS

 

  

Diagnosis .
A. Thyroid, total thyroidectomy: Papillary carcinoma, follicular ' 12 C") 3 q
variant of the left lobe, organ confined and completely resected. .5'q

single ipsilateral focus of papillary microcarcinoma also present.
Right lobe of thyroid with multinodular goiter.

E. Central cervical nodes, dissection: 3 lymph nodes all negative for
metastatic disease, 0/3.

Microscopic Description:

A, B. The. right lobe of this thyroid contains several benign nodules
consistent with multinodular goiter. The left lobe contains a
follicular variant of papillary carcinoma, measuring 1.7 cm in maximum
dimension. It discloses nuclear clearing, nuclear grooves and psammoma
bodies. It is mostly but not entirely encapsulated. Nearby, there is
a 0.3 mm satellite focus of papillary microcarcinoma. The tumor is
origan confined and completely resected.

Histologic type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant

Primary tumor (pT): ple

Margins of resection: Negative

Vascular invasion: Negative

Regional lymph nodes (pN): As per part B., all 3 lymph nodes are
negative for metastatic disease, 0/3, pNO

Distant metastasis (pM): pMO

Other findings: Multinodular goiter within right lobe. Within the left
lobe a 2nd focus of papillary microcarcinoma is noted.

Specimen
A. Total thyroid silk right upper pole
E. Central cervical node dissection

Clinical Information
Papillary cancer of thyroid

Gross Description

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "total thyroid" is an
11.7 g, roughly symmetrical total thyroidectomy with right and left
lobes averaging 3.9 X 3.1 x 1.2 cm. The capsule is delicate tan—pink
without identifiable lymphoid or parathyroid tissues posteriorly. The
right lobe is inked blue and the left lobe is inked black. A
well—circumscribed, 1.7 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm rubbery pale tan nodule is
present within the superior pole of the left lobe. The nodule extends
to within 0.1 cm of the capsular surface. A representative section is
submitted for Tissue Procurement. The remaining parenchyma throughout
the specimen is beefy red—brown with a few additional pale tan nodules
measuring up to 0.8 cm.

Summary: 1 through 4 — right lobe, superior to inferior; 5 through 9 —
left lobe, superior to inferior

B. Received fresh labeled "central cervical node dissection" is a 1.4

x l. 2 x O. 3 cm aggregate of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue 2
slightly rubbery tan- pink tiss“es in keeping with lymph nodes measuring
up to O. 3 cm are recovered.

Summary: 1 - 2 lymph nodes; 2 - residual adipose tissue

Criteri- Yes J {43 i;

Imgnosls DIsrwpancv lrj ‘,

 

IWMJEEEEEuéﬁiiw“AA7"""ﬁ
@A—[Ilsrrgpancy I»
SEVEEEEWEEV

Dual/Synchronous PIIU'ar/Noled
CAseistcircle): x \
lewewev Initials

  
 
 
   

 

 

 
 

