UUID:“521573-7387-4EBE-M23-4349466EBBAA
TCGA- 23-AABI- 01A- PR

Redacted
Iwmmmmnwmmmqimmuumm
lm HIHMWW

Surgery date: . Surgical Pathology
REVISED REPORT (Revised information underlined)

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Lymph nodes, duodenal colic, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue,
negative for tumor.

B. Lymph node, common hepatic artery, biopsy: A single (1) lymph
node is negative for tumor.

C. Soft tissue, pancreatic neck margin, biopsy: Negative for tumor

D. Soft tissue, common hepatic duct margin, biopsy: Negative for
tumor.

E. Head of pancreas, duodenum, common bile duct, and gallbladder;
Whipple resection: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, forming a
3.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm mass within the head of the pancreas. Tumor
extends beyond pancreas and involves peripancreatic soft tissue.
Perineural invasion is identiﬁed. Angiolymphatic invasion is not
identiﬁed. Multiple (17 peripancreatic, l periduodenal) lymph
nodes are negative for tumor. Gallbladder without diagnostic
abnormality. The uncinate margin contains a microscopic

focus of tumor. The portal vein groove is negative for tumor.

With available surgical material, [AJ CC pT3N0] (7th edition, 2010).

Seen in consultation with

AMENDMENTS: (Previous Signout Date:

Revision Description: Uncinate and portal vein groove margin
omitted from part E.

....Original Diagnosis...

A. Lymph nodes, duodenal colic, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue,
negative for tumor.

B. Lymph node, common hepatic artery, biopsy: A single (1) lymph
node is negative for tumor.

C. Soft tissue, pancreatic neck margin, biopsy: Negative for tumor

D. Soft tissue, common hepatic duct margin, biopsy: Negative for
tumor.

E. Head of pancreas, duodenum, common bile duct, and gallbladder;
Whipple resection: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, forming a

Ciﬁ,%%wwyﬁmi'

:ﬂﬂﬁ33

Catamawnwmanuos

EIQOLS

QQEO

Q43 ale/H

3.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm mass within the head of the pancreas. Tumor
extends beyond pancreas and involves peripancreatic soft tissue.
Perineural invasion is identiﬁed. Angiolymphatic invasion is not
identiﬁed. Multiple (17 peripancreatic, 1 periduodenal) lymph
nodes are negative for tumor. Gallbladder without diagnostic
abnormality.

With available surgical material, [AJCC pT3N0] (7th edition, 2010).
Seen in consultation with

* * *Signing Pathologist“ * *

PRELIMINARY FROZEN SECTION CONSULTATION:

A. Lymph nodes, duodenal colic, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue,
negative for tumor.

B. Lymph node, common hepatic artery, biopsy: A single (1) lymph
node is negative for tumor.

C. Soft tissue, pancreatic neck margin, biopsy: Duct margins are
negative for dysplasia with mucinous change.

AD. Soft tissue, common hepatic duct margin, biopsy: Negative for
tumor.

E. Head of pancreas, duodenum, common bile duct, and gallbladder;

Whipple resection: Invasive carcinoma, involving the head of the
pancreas.

Frozen section histologic interpretation of duodenal colic lymph
nodes and common hepatic artery lymph nodes performed by:

Frozen section histologic interpretation pancreatic neck margin
performed by: '

Frozen section histologic interpretation of common hepatic duct
margin, head of pancreas, duodenum, common bile duct, and
gallbladder performed by:

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A. Received fresh labeled "duodenal colic lymph nodes" is a 4.0 x

3.0 x 2.0 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue. Lymph nodes
submitted. Grossed by

B. Received fresh labeled "common hepatic artery lymph nodes" is a
2.2 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue. Lymph

nodes submitted. Grossed by

C. Received fresh labeled "pancreatic neck margin" is a 3.0 x 1.5 x

1.0 cm fragment of pancreas without orientation. Margin submitted.
Grossed by

D. Received fresh labeled "common hepatic duct margin" is a 0.9 x

0.3 x 0.3 cm portion of duct without orientation. Margin submitted.
Grossed by

E. Received fresh labeled “head of pancreas, duodenum, portion of
jejunum, gallbladder" is a Whipple specimen consisting of 29.0 cm in
length portion of duodenum, 6.0 x 4.5 x 4.3 cm portion of pancreas,
and 10.5 x 4.0 X 1.5 cm gallbladder. The pancreatic uncinate margin
is inked yellow and shaved. The portal vein groove is inked black
and submitted perpendicularly. There is a 3.5 X 3.0 x 2.5 cm

diffusely inﬁltrative mass within the head at the uncinate margin.

The mass is conﬁned to the pancreas. The gallbladder contains no
choleliths. Peripancreatic lymph nodes and periduodenal lymph nodes
are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted. Grossed by

BLOCK SUMMARY:

Part A: Duodenal colic lymph nodes
1 Duodenal colic LNs 4 (A1)
2 Duodenal colic LNs 3 (A2)

Part B: Common hepatic artery lymph nodes
1 Com hepatic artery LN2(B1)

Part C: Pancreatic neck margin
1 Pancreatic neck margin 1
2 Pancreatic neck margin 2

Part D: Common hepatic duct margin
1 Common hepatic duct margin

Part E: Head of pancreas, duodenum, portion of jejunum, gallbladder
1 Uncinate margin 1 top
2 Uncinate margin 1 bottom
3 Uncinate margin 2 .
4 Portal vein groove margin
5 Tumor l
6 Ampulla
7 Pancreatic duct
8 Tumor with bile duct
9 Peripancreatic LN 5 (E1)
10 Peripancreatic LN 1 (E2)
11 Peripancreatic LN 4 (E3)
12 Peripancreatic LN 3 (E4)

l3 Peripancreatic LN 1 (E5)
14 Peripancreatic LN 4 (E6)
15 Peripancreatic LN 5 (E7)
16 Periduodenal LN 1 (E8)
17 Gallbladder 1

l8 Gallbladder 2

 

