uum: aaAaAsaA- 0090- 493c- 9-m- EIB7ESA93e5EBc 1.0g; .0 3
TcsA- zz- A93M-01A- PR

ted
lllll'll'lllllllllllllllll'm ”will: llIllllIlIlIllII OWW W‘W
||||| lllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllll IIIIIIIIIIIIII ‘3
H Pathology Report» W m“ éﬁﬂé‘“ N03 6091?
. . . Q) 29/19l
F1na1 D1agnosu

A. LEFT KIDNEY:
Renal pelt carcinoma, papillary type “i, Fuhrman nuclear grade 2, two separate
foct,conﬁned to kidney measuring 0.7 cm and 2.5 x 2 x 1.? cm“ (See Key Pathological
Findings and See Comment)-
Resection margins (ureteral, vascular and peripheral soft tissue}, free of tumor.
Multiple papillary adenomas {1 7;
Acquired cystic disease of kidney.
Pathologic. stage (for both fool): pl’ia NX MX,

 

the attending pathologist: personally reviewed 5311
sliders and f or materials and rendered the final diagnosis. Electronically
Signed out; by

Comment:

i mm unohistochem ical stains performed on the larger renal cell carcmoma‘ shows the tumor cells to be
positive for vlrnentin, cylokeratin ?, AMACR, and focally positive for core. The immunoproﬁte
supports the above diagnosis~ lmmunohistochemical stains performed on papillary adenomas snow
positive staining for cytokeratin "I, AMAER, and focal positivity for CDlO.., lmmunohistochem‘lcal stains
performed on one at the cystic usions shows lining epithelial cells to be focally and weakly positive for
til-t? and negative for {3831.

Key Pathological Finrﬁngs

Tumor type: Renal cell carcinoma papillary type t, two separate toci

Nucleorgrade: 2

Pattern of growm: Papillary

Tumor size: 2.5 x 2 x 1.? an and 0.? cm

Renal capsule invasion: Not identiﬁed

invasion of pennephnlc adipose tissue: Not identiﬁed

Renal vein invasion: Not identiﬁed

Surgical margins: Free of tumor

Ureteral and vascular margins: Free of tumor

tymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Non-neoplastic kidney: Acquired cystic disease of kidney and changes consistent with
patient's history of end—stage renal disease

Adrenal gland: Not identified

Lymph nodes: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic stage: p‘i‘1a NX MX

Specimen“) Received

A LEFT KIDNEY

Clinical History
Endstage renal polyartentis nodosa with living related donor right renal transplant in

Preoperative Diagnosis
Left kidney mass.

Gross Description

A- The specimen received fresh labeled ”left kidney"- The specimen consists of an 82 gram. 5 x
3.5 x 2.8 cm kidney which is surrounded by perineptvic adipose tissue ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 cm in
thickness. Prior to sectioning the perinephric adipose tissue resection margin is inked black. There is
a 2% length of ureter attached to the kidneywhich is grossly unremarkable. The specimen is serially
sectioned to reveal an irregular to roughly soft-to—mbbery intraparenchymal tumor which measures 2.5
x 2 it 1 .7 cm. The tumor involves the cortex and medulla of the superior lateral aspect of the kidney.
The tumor bulges but does not appear to extend through the renal capsule and is within 0.3 cm of the
closest pennephric adipose tissue resection margin. The cut surfaoe of the tumor is pale-yellow to
pink. iobulated, without evidence of necrosis or hemorrhage. Netther polices nor renal pelvis are
involved by the tumor. The renal artery and vein and their branches do not appear to be involved by
the tumor. At least ti’ satellite i'ntraparenchymai and su bcapsular tumor nodules are identiﬁed ranging
from 0-1 to 6.? cm in greatest dimension. There are also several subcapsular and lnlraparenchymal
wists which range from 0.3 to no cm in greatest dimension. The cysts are tilled with transparent ﬂuid.
The remaining renal parenchyma is tan-redhrown. The atrophic potex ranges from 02 to 3.5 cm in
thickness. Urothelium of the collateds renal pelvis, and the portion of ureter, is tan. smooth and
glistening. . No lymph nodes are found within hilar adipose tissue. No adrenal gland is identiﬁed
Within superimpoie of the specimen. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted to the
Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in 16
cassettes as follows:

At: Resection margin at the renal artery

A2: Cross sections of the proximal portion of ureter

A3: Renal pelvis

MAS; Representative sections or the tumor overlying renal capsule and adjacent
perinephric adipose tissue

AQ»A16:Addltional sections oi the renal parenchyma with multiple satellite tumor nodules and
an bcapsular and intraparenchymal cysts.

MT: Resection margins of ureter and renal vein
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted to the ﬁssue Procurement Laboratory.

 

 

