uum: 37511200-F923-4452-9379-Faaa1eamasa
TCGA-HZ-ASTJ-OlA-PR Redaﬁlted

i“ “I"I'Iiii'llllllliiiillii'l'l'il'ii'l'u'i'l'l'nnl'illl'i'liiiiii'l'l'li'iiiiil'i'l'l'li 1 R°‘B"“”9 P“’S*°‘a“i
Illllllllll||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||I|||||||||||||||||||||||

L
DOB: Age: Gender; M

Refit: Hosp#: Provider Group :

 

Date of Service: Date Received: Inpatient Case #:

Date Reported:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis: ICE 0 .3

A. PERITONEUM, BIOPSY: MQWMLALCWiﬁ-J AIDS ‘5’"30’6
.METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA. {it}? WW W. (16209.

.— .;- L
B. UMBiLiCAL NODULE, Resecnon: 9%?) 9/0, ’ ’
- METASTATiC ADENOCARCINOMA.

C. LlVER, LEFT LOBE MODULE. EXCISIONAL BIOPSY:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

D. PANCREAS, SPLEEN AND LEFT ADRENAL GLAND, RADICAL ANTEGRADE
MODULAR PANCREATICOSPLENECTOMY:
- iNVASIVE PANCREATiC ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DiFFERENTIATED.
- Size 8.0 cm with direct invasion into left adrenal gland
and ﬁbrovascular bundle of spienic hilum.
- Tumor involves wail of stomach (see micro).
- Positive for perineural invasion.
- Suspicious for iymphovascular invasion.
- PANCREAHC MARGIN NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.

~ PANCREATSC INTRAEPITHEUAL NEOPLASIA (PaniN-lll).
- ONE BENIGN LYMPH NODE (011).

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGiNG SUMMARY:
Histologic type and grade: Pancreatic adenocarcinoma, Grade 2,

moderateiy differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3.

Regional lymph nodes: pNo.

Distant metastasis: pM1.

Pathologic stage: IV.

Lymphovascular invasion: Suspicious focus.
Perineural invasion: Positive.

Case #1

Page 1
Printed: ,

i his report continues... (FiNAL)

MR No
athoiogy ~ Page ‘i/B

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

E. TRANSVERSE MESOCOLON MODULE, RESECTION:
. METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

Tumor Staging information
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook, 7th Ed. and CAP protocol, June, 2012.

Case 1 Page 2
Printed: ' This report continues... (FINAL)

ethology - Page 2/6 age 2 Basil“!

 

 

Dakar..-

 

 

 

 

 

Case #:

Specimen: Distal pancreas, spleen, left adrenal gland and partial
stomach; peritoneal. umbilical, liver, and transverse
mesocoion nodules.

Procedure: Radical antegrade modular pancreaticosplenectomy
with local resection of mid transverse mesocolon
nodule, left lobe of liver nodule, peritoneal nodule and
umbilical implant.

Tumor site: Distal pancreas.

Tumor size: 8.0 cm.

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Grade 2, moderate.

Microscopic tumor extension:

Margins;

Treatment effect:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:

Lymph nodes:

Pathologic tumor staging Summary:
Primary tumor.
Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:
Pathologic stage:

Case #1
Printed:

my - Pag_

lnlo peripa ncreaiic soft tissue with invasion of left
adrenal gland and ﬁbrovascular bundle of splenic hilum’

!
metastasis lo stomach, peritoneum, umbilicus, liver and
transverse mesooolon.

Pancreatic margin negative.

Not applicable.
Suspicious focus.
Positive.

One benign peripancreatic lymph node (0/1).

pTS.
pNO.
pM‘l .
iv.

Page 3
This report continues... (FINAL)

Doc# 1

 

Patient:

 

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLO Y

  

signed a y

m M
Source of Specimen:

A. Peritoneal bx

B. Umbilical bx

C. Liver bx

D. Pancreaticospienectomy

E. Transverse mesocolon

Clinical History/Operative 93g
Pancreatic canccr

lntraogerative Diagnosis:

A. Peritoneal biopsy (FSAT):
~ Adenocarcinoma.

l3. Umbilical nodule. resection (F381):
- Adenocarcinoma.

Wa1i0n(s)waslwere performed and rendered at-

Gross Description:

A. Part A is designated as peritoneal biopsy. initially received in the fresh state for frozen section
evaluation is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm red-tan nodular piece of soft tissue. The specimen Is bisected and one
half is Submitted for frozen section evaluationThe residual frozen tissue is submitted in A1 for permanent
sections and the remaining half is submitted in A2 for routine histology. -

B. Part 8 is designated as umbilical biopsy. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section
evaluation is a lobuiar and tattered portion of fatty soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning
reveals a red—tan nodule. 1.7 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. One half of the nodule is submitted for frozen section
evaluation. The residual frozen tissue is submitted in Bi for permanent sections and the remaining half of
the nodule including attached fat is submitted in 82 for routine histology. -

C. Part C is designated as liver biopsy. Received in formalin is an irregular fragment of deep tan—brown
soft tissue consistent with liver parenchyma. meaSuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected

_ Case #:

Page 4
Printed:

This report continues... (FiNAL)

MR ND

ethology . Page 4/6 ~ P8964 Dooli‘l

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

 

case —

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

revealing a circumscribed, glistening, light gray nodule,,0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in its
entirety between two sponges bisected in (31 .

D. Part D is pancreaticosplenectomy. Initially received in a fresh state for harvesting tissue for
' is a pancreaticosplenectomy consisting of spleen. distal pancreas. adrenal gland.
and two attached pieces of stomach. The dimensions of the pancreas is difﬁcult to discern due to

replacement by tumor that invades the surrounding soft tissue; however, is up to 10.0 cm in length and 4.3
x 1.9 cm.

Sectioning through the stapled proximal margin of resection reveals tan pancreatic parenchyma without
gross tirmor involvement. Upon sectioning transversely, reveals a well-demarcated tumor mass, grossly 1.8
cm from the pancreatic-surgical margin and measuring upwards of 8.0 x 4.3 x 3.5 cm. The tumor mass is
dense, light gray and demonstrates obvious involvement into the peripancreatic soft tissue within 0.2 cm

of the anterior and posterior radial surfaces. The apparent adrenal gland is slightly distorted. measures
upwards of 4.0 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. and is partially encased and involved by tumor grossly (DH—£312). The
remaining length of the pancreas is grossly involved with tumor with the likely distal end of the tail

demonstrating poorly vi3ualized lobular, yellow—tan fat and possible pancreatic parenchyma (09010.
contiguous sections).

A smaller piece of attached stomach is 4.3 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm, deep red-tan and is incised to reveal
prominently wrinkled, deep tan mucosa without gross tumor involvement (013); A larger wedge-like piece
of stomach is 5.9 x 2.0 cm and is red-tan with submucosal tumor involvement (016). The grossly involved
area is greater than 1.0 cm away from the stapled Surgical margin. The tumor grossly invades the hilar fat
up to the spleen and encasing the splenic vessels. The spleen is 8.7 x ”(6 x 3.3 cm with a glistening, deep
purpletan intact capsule. The spleen is serially sectioned revealing deep red parenchyma without discrete
nodularity or grossly invasive tumor component. Lymph nodes searched within the hilar region and

superior pen‘pancreatic fat is hindered by tumor replacement. Representative sections are submitted for
microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary:
D1-DZ) proximal pancreatic margin of resection, contiguous sections.
03) proximal end of pancreas and adjacent tumor relationship,

04.010) representation of tumor replaced pancreas, submitted in a sequential fashion proximal towards
distal end,

0114312) adrenal gland ~ tumor,
Di 3) small wedge of stomachl, surgical margin, submitted,

014-015) larger wedge of stomach, surgical margin trimmed and submitted,
016) stomach wedge with tumor involvement,

{317018) spleen with hilum and tumor-

E. Part E is transverse mesocoion biopsy. Received in formalin is a 4 gram piece of lobular and slightly
tattered fatty soft tissue, 3.3 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm. A double suture denotes an area of palpable, poorly visualized
nodulan‘ty. This surface is now marked orange and the remaining margins black. Examination reveals
deep yellow-tan. dense nodularity measuring up to 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm surrounded by glistening. yellow fat.
The nodularity is within 0.3 cm of the likely surgical margin (black). The lesion is entirely submitted for

Case #: . . Page 5
Printed: This report continues... {FlNAL}

athology - Page 5/6 . 3:5 Docitt

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case it:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

microscopic evaluation in E1 and E2 with additional representation of the fat in E-

Microscogic Description:
A. Sections of the peritoneal biopsy show peritoneum with attached skeletal muscle partially involved by

metastatic adenocarcinoma forming irregular glands with surrounding desmoplastic stroma. No
lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed.

B. Sections of the umbilical nodule show adenocarcinorna involving ﬁbroadipose tissue. The tumor is at
the cauterized edge of the fragment. No lymphovascularinvasion is identiﬁed.

C. Sections of the liver biopsy show a subcapsular focus of metastatic adenocarcinoma. A portion of
benign liver tissue is present. No lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed.

D. Sections of the pancreaticosplenectomy show an invasive adenocarcincma involving the tail of the
pancreas. The tumor forms irregular small glands with a surrounding desmoplastlc stroma. There is a
minor cord and single cell pattern. The nuclei are enlarged with prominent nucleoli and there is
cytoplasmic mucin. Pen’neural invasion is present and there is a focus suspicious for lymphovascular
invasion. There are some dilated pancreatic ducts with severe dysplasia and carcinoma in situ. The
invasive tumor invades into the surrounding penpancreatic soft tissue with involvement of the left adrenal
gland and ﬂorovascular bundle of the splenic hilum without direct invasion into the splenlc parenchyma.
The larger wedge of attached stomach has tumor invading through the wall up to the mucosa, it cannot
be determined if this focus is due to direct extension or metastatic spread. A single benign peripancreatic
lymph node is present. The pancreatic margin is uninvolved.

E. Sections show mesenteric tissue with foci of adenocarcinoma composed of irregular small glands
surrounded by desmoplastic stroma. No lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed.

Case #'
Printed:

Diagnosis Discrepancy

Primary Tumor Site Discre- ancy
HlPAA Discrepancy
463‘

   
 

MR No. » Acct No - Batient Name ~
ethology - Page 6/6

 

