/CD-0'3

uum:.$gaGuA4_ag§-7:;3A19051CA513;-9oAFCA1Aa1aecdgm] mind Wm>726 [Km/,2) M
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII‘IIITIII W W ' W *0 W
IIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Jlﬁ -‘ W “W W

W? o
SPECIMEN

A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries
Vaginal cuff biopsy

Right pelvic biopsy

Periaortic lymph node

Left pelvic lymph node

Omentum

'TJE’JUOUJ

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Uterine cancer

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,

labeled
"uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries", is a 97
gram
uterus. The specimen is partially covered with pink—tan, smooth
and

glistening serosa and pink—tan, smooth and glistening ectocervix.
The specimen has attached bilateral adnexa. The specimen is opened
to show a pink—tan smooth and lush endometrial cavity, which is
filled with exophytic irregular endometrial tumor. The overall
‘ dimension is 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm. This appears larger on the
(:3 posterior wall than the anterior wall and comes within 3.5 cm. of
F the cervical os. The cut surface of the tumor shows no discrete
invasion into the myometrium on either side. The myometrial
thickness is 1.7 cm. The right ovary is 2.2 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. and is
pink—tan and cerebriform, with a pink-tan mottled cut surface. The
left ovary is 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm. and is pink~tan and cerebriform
with a pink-tan mottled cut surface. The fallopian tubes show
gross
evidence of previous ligation, both are fimbriated and average 3.5
X
0.7 cm. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as
follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Representative cervix; 2 — lower uterine
segment; 3 - right parametrial tissue; 4 - left parametrial tissue;
5—8 - full thickness endomyometrium; 9 — representative right tube

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION
and ovary; 10 — representative left tube and ovary. RS—lO

B. Received fresh labeled "vaginal cuff biopsy" is an
irregular, l x 0.8 x 0.25 cm soft tan white—pink portion

of
tissue which is inked, trisected and entirely submitted. AS-l.
C. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic node" is a 5.8 x
4
x 1.6 cm aggregate of soft, lobulated golden yellow
adipose
tissue. Several soft tan~pink to rubbery tan—white tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 3.3 cm in greatest
dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in seven blocks as labeled. RS-7.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 ~ Six whole nodes; 2-5 — one bisected node per
cassette;
6,7 — bisected largest node (one—half per cassette).
D. Received fresh labeled "periaortic lymph node" is a
9.2

x 7.5 x 3 cm aggregate of fragmented soft lobulated golden
yellow adipose tissue. Multiple rubbery tan—white to soft tan
pink—red tissues in keeping with single and aggregate clusters of
lymph nodes measuring up to 7.5 cm in greatest dimension are
recovered. The largest nodal aggregate shows grossly positive
tan—white cut surfaces (frank metastasis). Representative sections
including representative sections from the larges, grossly positive
lymph nodes are submitted in sixteen blocks as labeled. RS-l6.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1—3 - Six whole lymph nodes per cassette; 4-13 —
one

bisected lymph node per cassette; 14-16 — representative from five

largest grossly positive nodal aggregates (one represented per

cassette).

GROSS DESCRIPTION

in

E. Received fresh labeled "left pelvic lymph node" is a 4

x 3.8 x 1.5 cm aggregate of fragmented soft tan—gold
adipose tissue. A few soft to rubbery pale tan to tan-red tissues
in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 3.6 cm in greatest
dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in five blocks as labeled. RS—S.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Three whole nodes; 2,3 — one bisected node per
cassette;
4,5 — bisected largest node (one-half per cassette).

F. Received fresh labeled "omentum" is a 15.5 x ll x 4 cm

portion of soft, lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue in
keeping with omentum. No discrete mass lesion or abnormality is
identified grossly. Random representative sections are submitted

four blocks. RS-4.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

due

A. The following template applies to the uterus.

Histologic type: Mixed endometrioid and serous carcinoma.
Histologic grade: The endometrioid carcinoma is grade 1—2 and the
serous carcinoma is grade 3.

Myometrial invasion: Myometrial invasion is difficult to assess

to the extensive lymphovascular space invasion. Lymphovascular

space

invasion is present throughout the full thickness of the
myometrium. Use of immunohistochemical stain for endothelium
(factor VIII) was utilized in attempt to determine which was
true myometrial invasion. It appears that there is likely
full thickness involvement of the myometrial wall to a depth
of 2.2 cm.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Cervix: Extensively involved by serous carcinoma.

Vascular invasion: Extensive

Regional lymph nodes: See below

Other findings: Serous carcinoma is present within both the right

and

3x2,

left parametrial tissues. Additionally the left ovary shows
extensive serous carcinoma and there are tube—ovarian
adhesions with carcinoma adjacent to the left fallopian tube.

B. The vaginal cuff biopsy demonstrates no evidence of
malignancy.

C. The right pelvic lymph nodes demonstrate metastatic
serous carcinoma in 3 of 8 lymph nodes (3/8).

D. The paraaortic lymph nodes demonstrate metastatic
serous carcinoma in 29 of 32 lymph nodes (29/32).

E. The left pelvic lymph nodes demonstrate metastatic
serous carcinoma in 6 of 6 lymph nodes (6/6).

F. The omentum demonstrates no evidence of malignancy.

4x3, 5

DIAGNOSIS

A.

Uterus, cervix, biopsy:

Extensive stromal involvement by serous carcinoma.
Uterus, endomyometrium and serosa, biopsy: Mixed endometroid
and serous carcinoma, extensive myometrial involvement

(lymphatic spaces and myometrial invasion, by serous
carcinoma extending to serosal surface.)
Left ovary, resection: Serous carcinoma.
Left fallopian tube, resection: Serous carcinoma.
Right ovary, resection:
No tumor seen.
Right fallopian tube, resection:
No tumor seen.

DIAGNOSIS

Right and left parametrial tissue: Serous carcinoma.
Vaginal cuff, biopsy: No evidence of malignancy.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, resection:

Metastatic serous carcinoma in 3 of 8 lymph nodes (3/8).
Paraaortic lymph nodes, resection:

Metastatic serous carcinoma in 29 of 32 lymph nodes (29/32).
Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection:

Metastatic serous carcinoma in 6 of 6 lymph nodes (6/6).
Omentum, resection:

No evidence of malignancy.

, M.D, (Electronic Signature)

Tumor Site

HIPM

 

