SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name:

 

Med. Rec.#: Visit #: Servuce Date:

DOB: Sex: Female Received: —
Soc. Sec. #: Location: Client:

Physician(s):

UUID: 923A22A4- ABSE- 435E-5682-1827A84l39eEF2c
TCGA- RY- ASBZ- -01A- -PR

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Brain, "left frontotemporal tumor", biopsy: Anapiastic astrocytoma with
gemistocytic features, WHO Grade III.

3. Brain, "left frontotemporal tumor", biopsy: Anaplastic astrocytoma with
gemistocytic features, WHO Grade III. .

COMMENT: -

Sections show a hypercellular glial neoplasm composed of gemistocytic astrocytes and smaller elongate
cells with high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, and markedly hyperchromatic nuclei. Mitotic ﬁgures are
easily identified. There is no evidence of necrosis or microvascular proliferation. These features are
most consistent with an anaplastic astrocytoma with gemistocytic features, WHO grade III.

Immunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated at show that the tumor cells are
strongly positive for p53 protein and IDH1 (R132H) mutant protein, the latter of which is generally
associated with a genetically more favorable subtype of diffuse glioma. The GFAP stain shows patchy

positivity, especially in the gemistocytic cells. Neurofilament stains the entrapped neuropil. The Ki-67
labeling index is 18%.

Fluorescence in situ hybridization studies for EGFR amplification and PTEN deletion will be performed at
- and the results will be reported separately.

has reviewed this case and agrees with the diagnosis.

 

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 (A) Brain, left frontotemporal tumor, biopsy: Malignant glioma at least anaplastic astrocytoma.
Tissue section and cytologic prep.

Microscopic Description
Sections show a dense infiltrate of large atypical cells with overlapping, pleomorphic and
hyperchromatic nuclei, irregular nuciear contours and scant cytoplasm. No necrosis or endothelial cell

proliferation is present. 1 1:0.va 3
cw: 2 , [War/5 a‘liéwgﬁ‘a
Masai

WWWjW/‘L W3 W W%%*

<9“) io/a'olIB

 

.— —'_

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in two parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record
number.

Part A is labeled "left frontotemporal tumor," and consists of a fragment of unoriented, gelatinous,
tan-red soft tissue (1.0 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm). A portion of the specimen is submitted for frozen section
diagnosis 1, including a smear preparation. The frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette A1 and
the remainder of the specimen is submitted in cassette A2.

Part B, additionally labeled "L frontotemporal tumor (permanent),“ consists of one irregularly-shaped,
membranous fragment of soft, red tissue (0.8 x 0.7 x 0.1 cm), which is submitted intact in cassette Bl.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Clinical Histo ‘ “

The patient is a‘ ryeaiﬁpld female with a left insular grade III glioma (prior biopsy in outside hospital),
who undergoeskresectio .

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified to perform high—complexity cllnical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist following review of all
pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary interpretations performed by any resident
involved in the case and performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

Pathology Resident Pathologist

Signed:

 

‘rimary Tumorsite Discrepancy
"PM Di - i

 

