lob/0’3

53h» Maid, Nos C73 1‘?

 

 

A” 4/361“
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
Patient
Name: Accession #:
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Received:
Gender: M Location: Reported:
HCN: Facility:
Ordering
MD:
. UUID:SBFZEBFF-SSDB-AFAB-Aé -
00” T°- TCGA-EM-AZZP-BlA-PERB aunnAsonanesdacted

_ IH lliHllHllllllllHllilllHllilllllllllillillﬂllllllllllll
W l llHllHIIHlHiHlllllllllllllHlillllllllllllllllllllll“

Ill

1.Th 'dthIth 'd t'th rklft ' l

2. ”3:31 nodoe:a me‘iia‘iisuiéfno'g; z§nes{’/i’e"°' p° e I“ llllllllllllillilliilllillHllﬂlilllllllliliilllllllHll l iii
3. Neck: Right neck content zone 2, 3, 4, 5

 

Diagnosis
1. Multifocai papillary carcinoma, dominant widely invasive classical variant, 1.2 cm, right; with a papillary
microcarcinoma involving surgical margins, 1.0 cm, left; underlying mild nodular hyperplasia and
focal thyroiditis: Thyroid
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 2, isthmic and left perithyroidal
- Total thyroidectomy specimen

2. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 5 of 6
No pathological diagnosis: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Thymus
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid
- (Mediastinal zone VI) dissection specimen

3. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 4 (right neck level ll)
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 4 (right neck level lll)
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma with focal extranodal extension: Lymph nodes, 5 of 6 (right neck
level IV)
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 6 (site not specified; received as unoriented separate tissue)
No pathological diagnosis: Soft tissue (right neck level V)
- (Right neck levels 2, 3, 4 and 5) dissection specimen

Synoptic Data

Procedure: OtherzTotal thyroidectomy with right neck and mediastinal dissection
specimen
Received: Fresh
Specimen integrity: Fragmented
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
4.9 cm
2.3 cm
1.0 cm

Left lobe:

 

Specimen Weight:
Tumor Focaiity:

4.6 cm

2.0 cm

0.8 cm

isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:
2.0 cm

1.5 cm

0.5 cm

11.6 g

Multifocal, bilateral

--------------- DOMINANTTUMORu------------

Tumor Lateraiity:
Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Margins:
Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular invasion:

Perineurai invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:

Right lobe

Greatest dimension: 1.20m

Additional dimension: 0.5 cm

Additional dimension: 0.4 cm

Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)

Classical (papillary) architecture

Classical cytomorphoiogy

Not applicable

Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

None

Present, extent widely invasive
Not identified

Not identified

Not identified

--------------- SEQONDTUMORa-un---------

Tumor Laterality: ' Left, lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 1.0cm
Additional dimensions: 0.5 cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)
Papillary carcinoma, microcarcinoma (occult, small or microscopic)
variant
Classical (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margin(s) involved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perineurai invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Present, extent widely invasive
Not identiﬁed
Not identified
Cannot be assessed
m (multiple primary tumors)
pT1b: Tumor more than 1 cm but not more than 2 cm in greatest
dimension, limited to the thyroid
pN1b: Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervial
or superior medastinai lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 28
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 14
Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Present
Not applicable
Adenomatoid noduie(s) or Noduiar follicular disease
Thyroiditis, focal (nonspecific)
Parathyroid gland(s)
Other: additional follicular variant papillary microcarcinoma, 0.1 cm.
left lobe

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Comment

Since the surgical margins are involved by the tumor and no extrathyroidal tissue is included in this
specimen, evaluation of extrathyroidal extension cannot be reliably performed on this specimen. Clinical
correlation is required.

Electronically veriﬁed
by:

 

Gross Description

1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “Thyroid: Total thyroid stitch mark left superior
pole" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a stitch and weighs 11.6 g. The right lobe measures
4.9 cm Si x 2.3 cm ML x 1.0 cm AP, the left lobe measures 4.6 cm Si x 2.0 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP and the
isthmus measures 2.0 cm Si x 1.5 cm ML x 0.5 cm AP. The external surfaces have fibrous adhesions
and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid glands or no lymph nodes are identified grossly. The
upper right lobe contains a well delineated nodule that measures 1.2 cm SI x 0.5 cm ML x 0.4 cm AP. The
upper left lobe contains a nodular area that measures 1.0 cm Si x 0.5 cm ML x 0.4 cm. The remainder of
the thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of right and left lobe nodule and normal tissue are stored
frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

1A-D right lobe, superior to inferior

1E-F isthmus

lG-K left lobe, superior to inferior

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Mediastinal nodes zone Vi”
consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures 2.8 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm and contains multiple lymph
nodes that range from 0.5 cm to 1.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows.

2A multiple lymph nodes

28 multiple lymph nodes

ZC-D remainder of fatty tissue

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck: Right neck content zone 2, 3. 4, 5“
consists of right neck dissection with levels ll-V that measures 11.0 x 8.4 x 2.4 cm and a separate piece
of unoriented fatty tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.2 x 1.4 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified from all
the levels ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 3.0 cm. One piece of tissue from the largest nodule is stored
frozen. Representative sections are submitted.

3A one lymph node bisected level ll
3B multiple lymph nodes level ll
SC one lymph node bisected level iii
SD multiple lymph nodes level ill

3E-F largest lymph node trisected level lV
3G one lymph node bisected level lV
3H one lymph node bisected level IV

3i multiple lymph nodes level lV
3J soft tissue level V
3K multiple lymph nodes from the separate piece of unoriented fatty tissue

3L portion of unoriented fatty tissue

 

