   
  
 

Resident:
Pathologis

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN LABELED "RIGHT LIVER LOBE" (INCLUDING FSA):
Liver with fibrotic nodule with cystic change suggestive oﬁ solerosed

hemangioma.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

B. SPECIMEN LABELED "OMENTAL BX" (INCLUDING FSB):
Fibroadipose tissue with no tumor present.

C, SPECIMEN LABELED "SIGMOID AND RECTUM” (16.5 cm):

ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED (4.5 cm in greatest
dimension).
Tumor is located at the rectosigmoid junction, forms a fungating mass, is
ulcerative and has an infiltrating border.
Tumor invades through muscularis propria into pericolonic adipose
tissue.
Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor.
Invasive tumor is 9.5 cm from proximal resection margin, 6.5 cm from
distal resection margin, and 3.0 cm from radial resection margin.
Intramural and extramural lymphovasoular invasion is identified.
Extramural venous invasion is identified.
Perineural invasion is identified.
Peritumoral lymphoid response (involving Crohn 3— like infiltrate) is not
present.
Residual adenoma is absent.
Other polyps identified include: 1 adenoma (1.5 cm).
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES [POSITIVE/TOTAL) 4/11
AJCC Classification (6th Edition): T3 N2 MK
D. SPECIMEN LABELED "DISTAL DONUT":

Portion of colon with no significant pathologic change.

E. SPECIMEN LABELED "PROXIMAL DONUT":
Portion of colon with no significant pathologic change.

CLINICAL DATA:
History: Rectal Ca — on sigmoidoscopy. Liver cysts (multiple on CT) ? mets.

Operation: Low anterior resection.
Operative Findings: None given.
Clinical Diagnosis: Not provided.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:

A. Right live e-
B. Omental bxlﬁ)

C. Sigmoid + rectum

D. Distal donut

E. Proximal donut

O

S

.R. CONSULTATION:
PECIMEN LABELED "#1. RIGHT LOBE LIVER" {FSA}:
Liver with collapsed fibrous wall cyst with dystrophic calcifications.

Negative for carcinoma

 

Page:1 of3

 

 

  

eWWWMWW ms; ' ‘ .

SPECIMEN LABELED "#2. OMENTAL BX" (FSB):
Fat necrosis. _
Negative for carcinoma.

SPECIMEN LABELED mﬁB. RECTUM AND SIGMOID" (GROSS ONLY):
Tumor is 4.8 cm in greatest dimension and is located 9.5 cm from the

stapled margin and 6.5 cmfrom the open margin.

The senior physician certifies that he/she personally conducted a gross and/or
microscopic examination of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed
.the rapid diagnos(es) related thereto.

GROSS DESCRIPTION: -
The specimen is received fresh, in five parts, each labeled with the patients

name and unit number.

Part A, labeled "Right liver lobe", consists of one fragment of liver (1.2 x
1.0 x 0.5 cm) containing a white mass (0.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm). A representative
section is submitted as FSA. -

Micro Al: FSA remnant, l frag-
Micro A2: Non—frozen tissue, 1 frag, -

Part B, labeled "Omental biopsy“, consists of one fragment of adipose tissue
(0.4 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm) with no masses or lesions. The specimen is entirely

submitted as FSB.

Micro Bl: FSB remnant, 1 frag,-

Part C, labeled "sigmoid + rectum”, consists of segment colon (16.5 cm in
length x 4.5 cm in diameter) with attached pericolonic fat (3.5 cm in
thickness). The proximal stapled resection margin (4.5 cm) is inked blue and
the distal stapled resection margin (3.2 cm) is inked green. A fungating
ulcerative mass with rolled edges (4.5 x 2.5 x 0.6'cm) is present 9.5 cm from
the proximal stapled resection margin and 6.5 cm from the distal stapled
resection margin. Representative sections of tumor and normal tissue are
submitted to the tissue bank. The tumor is.located 3.0 cm from the radial
margin (inked orange). A single firm white nodule consistent with a replaced
lymph node is present abutting the radial margin (0.9 cm in greatest
dimension). The tumor focally invades into the underlying adipose tissue. In
addition a pedunculated polyp (1.5 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm)_is present 3.1 cm from the
proximal stapled resection margin.

Micro Cl—CZ: 10 candidate lymph nodes, 5 frags each, -

Micro C3: 1 lymph node trisected (close to margin), 3 frags, -

Micro Cd: 1 lymph node bisected, 2 frags,

Micro 05: 5 candidate lymph n des, 5 frag

Micro 06: margins, 2 frags, i

Micro 07—09: tumor and potential invasion int ose tissue, 1 frag,-
Micro (:10: tumoral to normal mucosa, l fragfil

Micro'Cll: polyp, l frag, -.

Part 0, labeled "Distal donut", consists of a fragment of colon (2.0 x 1.5 x
0.7 cm) , with a centrally stapled hole.

Micro Dl: distal donut, ‘l frag, -

Part E, labeled "Proximal donut", consists of anvil shaped donut maker with an
attached colon ring (2.0 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm).

Micro El: distal donut, l frag,-

 

 

Page: 2 of 3

 

 

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

 

 

Page: 3 of 3

 

