UID:SA6C1993-43D6-4E70-3623-1D3E81736362
U TCGA-CQ-AACE-e1A-PR Redﬁi‘itEd

wPH”NHHHHMHHMNHHWHNHHWHHHMN

mmmmmmmmmmmwml
.“HHMHHWHmHhunmumuumumnmuuum

Department of Pathology

 

 

Patient Name— Copath #-
MRN: Service: Otola gology Collected: _
DOB: Visit #: & Resulted: —
Gender: Location:

HCN: - Facility:

Ordering MD: —
, [Cb— a '5

 

éabukpnut,cvuwmpm¢I¢adr kautﬁm.pq,

NIL“ 877/1}
SNMH 1—W' was ¢o§_,q

SPECIMEN (S) RECEIVED

1. Oral—Cavity: Posterior Margin of Tongue /L’7%Aﬂo’
2. Oral Cavity :Right lateral tongue floor of mouth

3. Oral Cavity ;left lateral tongue floor of mouth

4. Oral Cavity :Deep posterior tongue margin

5. Oral Cavity :Dorsum of Tongue Right floor of mouth 1single stitch
anterior 2 double long posterior 1 single short lateral

6. Neck :Right neck contents

7. Neck ;left neck contents

8. Soft Tissue :Right external jugular tissue

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

DIAGNOSIS

1. Posterior margin of tongue.

Squamous mucosa with chronic inflammation and reactive changes.
Negative for high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma.

2. Right lateral tongue floor of mouth.
Squamous mucosa negative for tumor.

3. Left lateral tongue floor of mouth.
Squamous mucosa negative for tumor.

4. Deep posterior tongue margin.
Skeletal muscle negative for tumor.

5. Oral cavity; dorsum of tongue and right floor of mouth.
Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated. (Please
see comment)

a. Maximum tumor diameter 3.4 cm.

b. Tumor thickness 1.5 cm.

c. Positive for perineural invasion.

d. Negative for lymphovascular invasion.

e. The posterior and deep margins are positive for tumor. The
remaining margins are negative.

Status: complete ,

3

Patient, Name — Copath #
MRN- . Service: Otola gology Collected:

DOB: Visit 1*: & Resulted:

Gender: Location:

HCN: Facility:
Ordering Mn: —

 

6. Right neck contents.
Twenty-seven lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/27).
Submandibular gland with no pathologic changes.

7. Left neck contents.
Ten lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/10).
Submandibular gland with no pathologic changes.

8. Right external jugular tissue.
Soft tissues with no pathologic changes.
Negative for tumor.

COMMENT

Two of the specimen margins (specimen 5) are positive for tumor; however,
the separately submitted patient's margins were negative (see specimens
1—4).

SYNOPTIC DATA

Clinical History: No neoadjuvant therapy
Specimen: Dorsal surface of tongue, NOS
Received: Fresh
Procedure: Glossectomy: dorsum of tongue right

floor of mouth
Neck (lymph node) dissection: right

and left neck

Specimen Integrity: Intact

Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 4.2 cm
Additional dimension: 3 cm
Additional dimension: 1.8 cm

Specimen Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: Dorsal surface of tongue, NOS
Tumor Focality: Single focus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.4 cm

Tumor Thickness (pTl and pT2 tumors): ,
Tumor thickness: 16 mm

Tumor Description: Exophytic, Endophytic
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
Status: complete Page: 2 of 5

 

Patient Name“ Copath #-

 

MRN Service: Otola ology Collected
DOB: Visit #: & Resulted:
Gender: Location: '
HCN: Facility:
ordering MD: '-

carcinoma

Distance from closest margin: 0.1 cm

Margin(s): SEE COMMENT
Margin status for carcinoma in situ
is not applicable

Treatment Effect: Not identified

Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Perineural Invasion: Present

Lymph Nodes, Extranodal Extension: Not identified

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): - pT2:Tumor more than 2 cm but not
more than 4 cm in greatest dimension

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node
metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes

examined: 37
Number of regional lymph nodes

involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

____.._._.....___._-—_-—____—__——-..—--———._—___-......___—_....___...._

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

CLINICAL HISTORY
Tongue CA

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "posterior
margin of tongue". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.7 x
0.2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

1A frozen section control

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right lateral
tongue floor of mouth". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1

Status: complete Page: 3 of 5

 

Patient Name— eepath it:
MRN: _ Service: Otola gology Collected:
nos: u Visit #. ﬁll resumed:—

Gender :. - Locat ion:

HCN: Facility:
Ordering MD: —

 

x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
2A frozen section control

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “left lateral
tongue floor of mouth". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring
0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen
section.

3A frozen section control

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as "deep posterior
tongue margin". It consists of 2 fragments of tissue measuring 1 x 0.6 x
0.3 and 0.4x 0.3x0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen
section.

4A frozen section control

5. The specimen is labeled the patient's name and as "dorsum of tongue
right floor of mouth 1 single stitch anterior 2 double long posterior 1
single short lateral". It consists of an oriented portion of tongue
measuring 1.8 SI x 3 ML x 4.2 AP cm. There is a raised tumor involving
the dorsal surface of the tongue. The tumor measures 1.6 SI x 2.8 ML x
3.4 AP cm. The tumor is homogeneous and partly friable. It is located
at 0.3 cm from the lateral margin (double short suture), 0.7 cm from the

medial margin (opposite to double short), less than 0.1 cm from the deep
margin, 0.2 cm from the anterior margin, and close to the posterior
margin. Representative sections are submitted.

5A anterior margin

5B posterior margin

5C double short suture margin

5D opposite margin of double short
5E tumor and deep margin

5F tumor

6. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "right neck
contents". It consists of an oriented left neck dissection with overall
dimensions of 18 x 3 x 1 cm. There is a diagram indicating levels I—IV.
The submandibular gland measures 2.5 x 3 x 1 cm and is unremarkable.
Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 cm are identified in
multiple levels. Representative sections are submitted.

6A submandibular gland
GB ,level I, multiple lymph nodes
6C level II, one lymph node
Status: complete Page: 4 of 5

 

Patient Name— Copath #:—

  

 

MRN: Service: Otola ology Collected:
DOB: Visit #: & Resulted:
Gender . Location:
HCN: Facility:
Ordering MD: —

6D—6E level III, multiple lymph nodes

6F level IV, multiple lymph nodes

6G level IV, four lymph nodes

6H level IV, multiple lymph nodes

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "left neck
contents". It consists of an oriented left neck dissection with overall
dimensions of 11 x 6 x 1.2 cm. There is a diagram indicating levels
I—IV. The submandibular gland measures 2.5 x 3 x 1cm and is
unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 1.3 cm are
identified in multiple levels. Representative sections are submitted.
7A submandibular gland

73 level I, multiple lymph nodes
7C level II, one lymph node bisected
7D level III, 2 lymph nodes

7E level IV multiple lymph nodes

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as "right

external jugular tissue". It consists of one piece of soft tissue
measuring 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto.

8A vessel

8B remaining tissue

QUICK SECTION

1—4. Margins (posterior tongue, right lateral tongue/floor of mouth, left
lateral tongue/floor of mouth and deep posterior tongue).

- Negative for malignancy.

Called at

Status: complete Page: 5 of 5

No

  
   

-agi
_ 2_i

asp“

Initial:

' '5 unsounﬂﬁén
,

