 

 

TCGA-DH -5142

   

SPECIMEN S SUBMITTED PROCEDURES ORDERED:

  

CLINICAL HISTORY_ male, here for ieft side craniotomy for tumor.
GROSS DESCREPTION: Received the following specimens in the Department of Pathology, labeled with

the patient's name and -'

A. Brain tumor

8-. Brain tumor
A. The specimen is received fresh and consists of a dome—shaped portion of edematous beige to gray—

tan homogenous tissue that is 3.2 x 2.5 x 2.0cm._ A representative portion is submitted for frozen
section. Frozen section diagnosis is "lnfiltrating giioma, most likeiy astrocytic, with features suspicious
for anaplasia," by Dr.- The frozen tissue is submitted in cassette FSAl, and representative tissue
is submitted in cassettes A2-A4. A representative portion is submitted for the—

B. The specimen is received fresh and consists of a 3.6 x 3.3 x 0.9 cm portion of homogenous beige to
gray—tan soft tissue with focal areas of yellow to white softening. A representative portion is submitted

in cassettes 81-34, and a portion is submitted to—

DIAGNOSIS:

A. ”Brain tumor":

Anapiastic astrocytoma (WHO_ Grade ill) (see comment)
B. "Brain tumor”:
Anapiastic astrocytorna (WHO Grade lli) .

COMMENT: This highly infiitrative astrocytoma shows evidence of anaplastic transformation as well as
areas of diffuse low grade histology. Areas of increased cellularity and pleomorphism are
especiaiiy striking in slides A3 and A4. Aconspicuous gemistocytic appearance of the tumor ceils is
apparent throughout (GFAP-immunoreactive). Although only a few mitotic figures are apparent in this
well sampied giioma, the Ki—67 labeling index is around 9 % (range: 6—13%) in highly cellular areas. These
results support the diagnosis. l’l.,or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination and
description and l have personally reviewed the gross description and specimen preparations referenced
herein, and have personally issued this report.”

Resident/Prosector/Pathoiogist:
Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance characteristics determined by-

_. Some tests have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug

 

Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes and should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is
certified under the Clinicai Laboratory Improvement Amendments of- a qualified to
perform high compiexity clinical laboratory testing.

  

 

