CoPath

Anatomical Pathology

   

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

«6W

     

Final Diagnosis:
A. Omentectomy specimen showing:

1. Nodulo of metastatic high-grade (313) papillary serous adenocarcinoma
2. Abundant adipose tissue.

B. Lett salpingo-oophoreclomy specimen showing:

1. Large high-grade (3/3) papillary serous adanocarcinoma of the ovary,
with extension to ovarian surface and focal inlramucosal involvement

of taltopian tube.

2. The carcinoma has soiid, tubularigtandular and papillary patterns.
and there is an area of cyst formation.

3. No lymphatic or vascular invasion found.

4. Uninvolved fallopian tube mucosa, unremarkable.

5. Tube-ovarian adhesions.

C. Right salpingo-oophoreclomy specimen showing:

1. Surface ovarian implant of highgrade (313) serous adenocarcinoma, within adhesions.
2. Abundant toboovartan adhesions.

3. Failopian tube not involved by tumor.

4. Ovarian parenchyrna, not involved by tumor. cystic foilictes and

corpus luteum present.

5. No lymphatic or vascuiar invasion.

D. Specimen tabeiied "right pelvic sldewalt lymph node": One benign lymph
node, with abundant surrounding ﬁbrofatty tissue.

E. Peritoneal washings. cytology specimen (VOW-463}: positive for
high-grade papillary serous adenocarcinoma (numerous clumps of carcinoma
cells present).

 

Final Diagnosis Comment:
in my opinion, the overatl ﬁndings are most in keeping with a primary serous adenocarcinoma of the left ovary, with metastatic spread.

Clinical History as Provided by Submitu’ng Physician:
Research” issue Harvesting

ytology Repo

ilh hx renal cell ca.

Now with complex pelvic mass
Ovarian mass
A. Omentum -siitch on nodule (for frozen section)
B. Leﬂ ovary {for frozen section)
0. Right fallopian tube and right ovary
D. Right pelvic sldewalt lymph node

Specimens Received:
A: omentum

 

Jay/57

B: left ovary

0: right failopian tube t right ovary

D: ight pelvic side wall lymph node

Gross Description:

Specimen is received in four containers each labelled with the patient‘s name.

Container "A“ is labelled "omentum; stitch on nodule" and consists of fatty tissue fragments which measure 22 x 14 x 1 cm. A nodule marked by suture is
identiﬁed which measures 1 cm in maximum dimension. The rest of the fatty tissue appears unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

“A1"-from the nodule

"AS-A4" —representative from the rest of the fatty tissue.

Container "B" is labelled "left ovary" and consists of a cystic and solid mass which measures 10 cm in maximum dimension. The outer surface shows
attached fallopian tube which measures 9 cm in length and .7 cm in diameter. The rest of the outer surface shows a 4 cm tumour area which is not
covered by the ovarian capsule (?artiﬁcial ru ture . On cut sectionin . the lesion is composed of solid and cystic parts. The solid nodoie measures 6 x 4
X 3 cm. intraoperativo diagnosis done WH as consistent with papiltary serous ovarian carcinoma.

Representative sections are submitted as o ows:

"31.32" -frozen section

"53" -representative from the faltopian tube

"B4" -representative from the ?rupture area

“BS" -representative from the solid area

"BB" -representative from the cystic area.

Container "C" is tabetled "right fallopian tube and ovary". The ovary measures 3.5 x 2 x 1 cm. white the fallopian tube measures 2 x .6 cm. The outer
surface of the ovary is irregular. The cut surface shows multiple cysts, the largest one with a diameter measuring 1 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
in six cassettes [abetted as "Ct-CS" with fallopian tube in "CB".

Container “D" is tabelied "n'ght pelvic sidewail lymph node" and consists of a single ﬂbrofatty tissue fragment which measures 1.5 x1 x .3 cm. The
specimen is submitted in toto in one cassette tabelied as “D1".

tntraoperetive Consultation:

FSAM

Gross Description: 9 x 6 x 3 cm solid nodule with cystic component.

Two sections taken for frozen section.

Provisional Dlagnosls; Consistent with papillary serous ovarian carcinoma.

 

 

  
 

Copies to

 

