UUID: AECSFSDB- E697- “(28- 9654- FDEF524I§4eEF8
TCGA- H7- A6C4- 61A- PR

IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllRlﬁldlllallcllad
||||||||||||||||l||||l|l|||||||||||||l|||l|||||||||||||||lll|||| 1:68) ‘0 ”3

I“ llllllll |||| IIIIIII I III“ II I I ||||||I|||||| |I|| || | | |||||||| III W M
Operative Procedure: ’ , ‘ 2‘55 807”

Glossectomy, neck dissection.

Specimen Received:

Right vocal cord biopsy (FS)
Level 1 neck dissection- left Sly/I .7
Base of tongue at hyoid (FS) 9‘30

Distal lingual nerve margin (FS)

Left lingual artery biopsy (FS)

Deep tongue base margin #1 (FS)

Tongue base mucosa margin (FS)

Anterior mucosa margin (FS)
Anterior inferior mucosa margin (FS)

Posterior medial mucosa margin (FS)

Deep medial margin (FS)

Posterior deep base of tongue (FS)

Proximal lingual nerve biopsy (FS)

Left tongue lesion

Left neck dissection level 2-4

Left neck dissection 28

 

Pezsrﬁs=semmpon>

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
Left tongue, partial glossectomy:
Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, moderately

differentiated.
Histologic type/grade: Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma,
moderately differentiated
Tumor size: 3.0 cm (greatest dimension)
Depth of invasion: 0.8 cm (greatest dimension)
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present
Perineural invasion: Present
Tumor site: Left lateral tongue
Tumor focality: Single focus
Margins: Deep surgical margin transected by carcinoma on

the resected specimen (frozen section margins are negative).
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma in situ

Lymph nodes, extranodal extension: Left level 1-4 lymph node
dissection: Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (5/30 lymph nodes positive,
extracapsular spread present, maximal dimension 4.8 cm).

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary tumor (pT): pT2
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN2b " ’ ‘- . t \:

N m 3512
Prior liisrnrv

’AUI if?)

Reviewer

I‘—

 

Number examined: 30
Number involved: 5
Size of the largest positive lymph node: 4.8 cm (greatest
dimension)
Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Additional pathologic ﬁndings: None

Specimen: Tongue, lateral surface

Received: ln formalin

Procedure: Partial glossectomy with left neck dissection
levels 1-4

Specimen size: 5.6 x 4.9 x 2.3 cm (greatest dimensions)
Specimen laterality: Left

A. Right vocal cord biopsy:
Moderate epithelial dysplasia, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

B. Level 1 neck dissection, left:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (2/8 lymph nodes positive, maximal
dimension 2.7 cm, no extracapsular spread).

C. Base of tongue at hyoid, biopsy:
Detached fragment of squamous cell carcinoma, frozen section diagnosis
confirmed.

D. Distal lingual nerve margin (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

E. Left lingual artery biopsy (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

F. Deep tongue base margin #1 (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

G. Tongue base mucosa margin (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

H. Anterior mucosa margin (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

l. Anterior inferior mucosa margin (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

J. Posterior medial mucosa margin (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

No epithelium is present on the frozen or permanent sections.

K. Deep medial margin (FS):

No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

L. Posterior deep base of tongue (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

M. Proximal lingual nerve biopsy (FS):
No evidence of malignancy, frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

N. Left tongue lesion, partial glossectomy:
Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated (see
Synoptic Report for details).

0. Left neck dissection level 2-4:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (3/15 lymph nodes positive, maximal
dimension 4.8 cm, extracapsular spread present).

P. Left neck lymph node dissection levvel 28:
No evidence of malignancy (0/7 lymph nodes positive).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

FSA: Right vocal cord biopsy:
Low grade squamous dysplasia with focal moderate dysplasia.
F/S TAT: 6 mins.

FSC: Basal tongue at hyoid:

Detached fragment of squamous mucosa with at least mild to moderate
dysplasia. Carcinoma in situ cannot be excluded (poor orientation).

F/S TAT: 19 mins.

FSD: Distal lingual nerve margin:
Negative for tumor.

FSE: Left lingual artery biopsy:
Negative for tumor.

FSF: Deep tongue base margin #1:
Negative for tumor.

FSG: Tongue base mucosa margin:
Mild squamous dysplasia.

FSH: Anterior mucosa margin:
Negative for tumor.

FSI: Anterior inferior mucosa margin:
Negative for tumor.

FSJ: Posterior medial mucosa margin:
Negative for tumor (squamous mucosa not present).

FSK: Deep medial margin:
Negative for tumor.

FSL: Posterior deep base of tongue:
Negative for tumor.

FSM: Proximal lingual nerve biopsy:
Negative for tumor.
F/S TAT: 30 mins.

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in sixteen parts, each labeled with the patient’s name

Part A received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "right vocal cord
biopsy" and consists of a 0.2 cm in greatest dimension irregular, gray-tan soft
tissue, which has been submitted in toto for frozen section diagnosis and the
residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette A. Note, it is
questionable as to whether this specimen will survive processing.

Part B received in formalin labeled ”level 1 neck dissection, left" and consists
of a portion of irregular, ragged, focally fragmented, gray-yellow to red-brown,
focally cauterized fibrofatty tissue, which has dimensions of 8.5 x 5.2 x 2.8

cm. The fat contains a gray-yellow, lobulated salivary gland, which has
dimensions of 4.8 x 2.7 x 1.6 cm. There are no focal lesions identiﬁed within
the salivary gland. Sectioning through the remainder of the fat reveals eleven
probable lymph nodes that range from 0.4 to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The
largest lymph node is grossly positive.

Representative sections are submitted as labeled:
B1 salivary gland;
B2 four lymph nodes submitted in toto;
BS one bisected lymph node;
84 one bisected lymph node;
BS a representative section of the largest grossly positive lymph node;

86 one bisected lymph node;
B7 one bisected lymph node;
BS one bisected lymph node;
BQ one bisected lymph node.

Part C received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "base of tongue at
hyoid" and consists of three irregular, gray—tan soft tissues, which have

greatest dimensions of approximately 0.3 cm each, which have been submitted in
toto for frozen section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent
sections in cassette C.

Part D received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled “distal lingual
nerve margin" and consists of a 0.4 cm in greatest dimension irregular gray—tan
soft tissue, which has been submitted in toto for frozen section diagnosis and
the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette D.

Part E received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "left lingual
artery biopsy" and consists of two irregular, gray-tan soft tissues, which have

greatest dimensions of 0.2 and 0.6 cm, which have been submitted in toto for
frozen section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in
cassette E.

Part F received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "deep tongue base
margin #1 " and consists of a 0.8 cm in greatest dimension irregular, gray-tan
soft tissue, which has been submitted in toto for frozen section diagnosis and
the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette F.

Part G received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "tongue base
mucosa margin" and consists of two irregular, gray-tan soft tissues, which have
greatest dimensions of 0.3 and 0.7 cm, which have been submitted in toto for
frozen section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in
cassette G.

Part H received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "anterior mucosa
margin" and consists of three irregular, gray—tan soft tissues, which have
greatest dimensions of 0.3, 0.7 and 0.9 cm, which have been submitted in toto
for frozen section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections
in cassette H.

Part i received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "anterior inferior
mucosa margin" and consists of an irregular, gray-tan soft tissue, which has a
greatest dimension of 1.0 cm. The specimen has been submitted in toto for frozen

section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette
I.

Part J received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "posterior medial
mucosa margin" and consists of an irregular, gray-tan soft tissue, which has a
greatest dimension of 1.1 cm, which has been submitted in toto for frozen

section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette
J.

Part K received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "deep medial
margin" and consists of an irregular, gray-tan soft tissue, which has a greatest
dimension of 0.6 cm. The specimen has been submitted in toto for frozen section
diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette K.

Part L received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "posterior deep
base of tongue" and consists of three irregular, gray-tan soft tissues, which
have greatest dimensions of 0.1, 0.6 and 0.8 cm, which have been submitted in
toto for frozen section diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent
sections in cassette L.

Part M received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "proximal lingual
nerve biopsy" and consists of a 0.7 cm in greatest dimension irregular, gray-tan
soft tissue, which has been submitted in toto for frozen section diagnosis and
the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette M.

Part N is received in formalin labeled "left tongue lesion" and consists of a
previously inked and incised portion of left tongue, which has dimensions of 5.6
x 4.9 x 2.3 cm. The specimen was initially received fresh with tissue submitted
to the Tissue Bank. The deep surface is irregular, gray-brown and focally
cauterized. The mucosa is gray-tan and diffusely granular. The lateral border of
the tongue is remarkable for an ulceration, which has dimensions of 1.8 x 1.2
cm. This ulceration extends to within 0.2 cm of the nearest inferior lateral
mucosal edge. The specimen is further sectioned to reveal a gray-white, granular
indurated mass, which has dimensions of 3.6 x 2.2 x 1.3 cm. This mass is
contiguous with the aforementioned ulceration. This mass extends to the soft
tissue edge at numerous sites. There is some loosely attached soft tissue at the
inferior lateral aspect of the specimen, which has dimensions of 3.0 x 2.6 x 0.8
cm. This tissue is sectioned to reveal a gray-tan, lobulated cut surface that is
grossly suggestive of salivary gland. Also, the soft tissue is remarkable for

focal granularity, fibrosis and induration. These foci are highly suspicious.

Representative sections are submitted as labeled:
N1—4 mass to include ulceration and close mucosal edges in cassettes N1
and N2, as well as deep soft tissue edges in
cassettes N3 and N4;
N5 apparent salivary gland;
N6 associated soft tissue with suspicious appearing foci.

Part 0 received in formalin labeled "left neck dissection level 2-4" and

consists of a portion of irregular, ragged, gray-yellow to red-brown, lobulated
fibrofatty and ﬁbromuscular tissue, which has dimensions of 11.4 x 4.0 x 1.8
cm. The fat contains 16 probable lymph nodes that range from 0.3 to 4.8 cm in
greatest dimension. The largest lymph node is grossly positive.

The lymph nodes are submitted as labeled:
01 six lymph nodes submitted in toto;
02 three lymph nodes submitted in toto;
03 ﬁve lymph nodes submitted in toto;
04-5 one trisected lymph node;
06 representative section of the largest, grossly positive lymph node.

Part P received in formalin labeled "left neck dissection level 28" and consists
of a portion of irregular, ragged, gray-yellow to red-brown, focally cauterized,
lobulated fat, which has dimensions of 2.6 x 2.2 x 0.9 cm. The fat contains

eight probable lymph nodes that range from 0.6 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension.
The lymph nodes are submitted in toto in cassettes P1 and P2.

Microscopic Description:

Histologic examination reveals a left glossectomy specimen and left neck
dissection specimen. The glossectomy specimen is notable for a deeply invasive
keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma exhibiting moderate differentiation. Both
perineural and lymphovascular invasion are prominent. The neck dissection
demonstrates multiple metastatic nodes, the largest of which is 4.8 cm with
extracapsular spread.

END OF REPORT

Taken: DOB: (Age: , Gender: F

