UUID: 803D1782- 4F1E- 4061- 821D- -434DSFBBSF9e7d
TCGA- F7- ASBI- BIA- PR

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllelllllallcllte
Ill l lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Gross Description: Specimen F is designated "total laryngectomy." The specimen
consists of a total laryngectomy (9.5 x 8.7 x 7.2 cm), including hyaloid

bone (9.2 cm in length x 1.2 cm in diameter), anterior skin with a

tracheotomy site (3.1 x 2.0 cm), and anterior strap muscles. The ”A- 0 '3
WW M NO;
external surface is inked black. The specimen is opened from the 3” 70/3
posterior midline revealing a tan—pink infiltrative mass (6.2 x 5.1 x .S’r-h ~ Ami/tux] My;
. . . . . . 63-2 '7
5.8 cm) located in the preepiglottic, glottlc and subglottic regions.
This mass crosses the midline and involves the true and false vocal W
/ é/ar/u.

cords bilaterally and extends into the tracheostomy site. Sectioning
the mass demonstrates extension into the underlying soft tissues and
comes within 0.8 cm of the vallecula margin, 0.2 cm from the skin, 0.3
cm from the anterior strap muscles, and 0.2 cm from the anterior
surface. This mass involves the thyroid cartilage and cricoid

cartilage. This mass appears to extend to the distal tracheal ring
margin grossly. The surrounding mucosa is pink tan. No additional
lesions are present. Representative sections are submitted as F1-F20.
Representative tissue was procured for potential future studies.
Photographs were taken.Specimen F is designated "total laryngectomy." The specimen
consists ofa total laryngectomy (9.5 x 8.7 x 7.2 cm), including hyaloid
bone (9.2 cm in length x 1.2 cm in diameter), anterior skin with a
tracheotomy site (3.1 x 2.0 cm), and anterior strap muscles. The
external surface is inked black. The specimen is opened from the

posterior midline revealing a tan-pink infiltrative mass (6.2 x 5.1 x

5.8 cm) located in the preepiglottic, glottic and subglottic regions.
This mass crosses the midline and involves the true and false vocal
cords bilaterally and extends into the tracheostomy site. Sectioning
the mass demonstrates extension into the underlying soft tissues and
comes within 0.8 cm of the vallecula margin, 0.2 cm from the skin, 0.3
cm from the anterior strap muscles, and 0.2 cm from the anterior
surface. This mass involves the thyroid cartilage and cricoid
cartilage. This mass appears to extend to the distal tracheal ring
margin grossly. The surrounding mucosa is pink tan. No additional
lesions are present. Representative sections are submitted as F1-F20.
Representative tissue was procured for potential future studies.
Photographs were taken.
Microscopic Description: N/A
Diagnosis Details: Larynx, total laryngectomy:

- Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, invasive,
arising in a background of squamous cell carcinoma in situ.

- Tumor involves supraglottic, glottic and subglottic regions
involving the true and false vocal cords bilaterally, right epiglottic
fold and piriform sinus, right arytenoid, with extension to the
tracheostomy site.

- Tumor size: 6.2 x 5.8 x 5.1 cm.

Invasion of thyroid cartilage and cricoid cartilage.

Lymphovascular invasion identified.

Margins: Radial margin at left tracheal margin (slide F2) and

anterior margin (slide F20)positive for invasive squamous cell

carcinoma.

- All other margins negative for tumor.
Comments: N/A
Formatted Path Reports: LARYNX TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Total laryngectomy
Tumor site: Larynx
Tumor size: 6.2 x 5.8 x 5.1 cm
Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
Tumor extent: Major thyroid cartilage erosion
Lymph nodes: Not specified
Margins: Involved
Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified

Comments: Tumor also invades cricoid cartilage

 

