 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

2.

Soft tissue. "psuedocapsuIe/Iateral" (excision): Fibroadipose tissue. no tumor seen.

Soft tissue, "anterior perirenal fat" (excision): Adipose tissue, no tumor seen.

. Soft tissue, "perirenal fat - upper pole" (excision): Adipose and fibrous tissue, no tumor seen.

. Soft tissue, "scar tissue" (excision): Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

8.

9.

. Kidney, left, "solid #1" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
. Kidney, left, "solid # " (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

. Kidney, left, "solid #3" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

Soft tissue, left perirenal, "scat tissue #4“ (excision): Scar tissue and ﬁbroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

Kidney, left, "solid #5" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

10. Kidney, left "solid #6" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

11. Kidney, left "solid #7" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

12. Kidney, left "solid #8" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

13. Kidney, left "solid #9" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

 

Patient Identification

, l

 

 

14. Kidney, left "solid #10" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

15. Kidney, left "solid #11" (excision): Benign kidney parenchyma with sclerotic glomeruli and inflammation, no
tumor seen. '

16. Kidney, left "solid #12" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

17. Kidney, left "upper pole cyst wall #13" (excision): Cystic lesion with irregular ouboidal lining, benign kidney
parenchyma and fat, no tumor seen.

18. Kidney, left "solid #14" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
19. Kidney, left "solid #15" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
20. Kidney, left "solid #16" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
21. Kidney, left "solid #17" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
22. Kidney, left "solid #18" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.
23. Kidney, left "solid #19" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

24. Kidney, left "normal tissue adjacent to #19" (excision): Benign kidney parenchyma with sclerotic glomeruli and
inflammation, no tumor seen. '

25. Kidney, left "#20" (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

26. Kidney, left ”solid #21" (excision): Small focus of renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

27. Soft tissue, left perirenal, "perirenal fat" (excision): Adipose tissue. no tumor seen.

28. Soft tissue, left perirenal, "perirenal fat lower pole" (excision): Adipose tissue. no tumor seen.
29. Skin, not otherwise specified (biopsy): Skin, no tumor seen.

30. Rib. left 11th (excision): Bony fragment consistent with rib, gross diagnosis only.

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation
l

 

    

CLINICAL INFORMATION: HISTORYzRENAL TUMORS * EXAM IS RELATED TO ORDERING PROTOCOL
Ordering Protocol:

PROCEDURE: PREOP DX:#LEFT RENAL TUMORS POSTOP DX: SAME OPERATIVE FINDINGS: MULTIPLE
LEFT RENAL LESIONS

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1) TUMOR. Pseudo capsule lateral (1FS)
2) FAT, Anterior perirenal (2FS)
3) FAT, Peri renal - upper pole (3FS)
4) SOFT TISSUE, NOS. Scar (4FS)
5) KIDNEY, Solid # 1
6) KIDNEY, Solid # 2
7) KIDNEY, Solid # 3
8) KIDNEY, Scar tissue
9) KIDNEY, Solid # 5
10) KIDNEY, Solid # 6
11) KIDNEY, Solid # 7
12) KIDNEY, Soild # 8
13) KIDNEY, Solid # 9
14) KIDNEY, Solid # 1O
15) KIDNEY, Solid # 11
16) KIDNEY. Solid #12
17) KIDNEY, Upper pole wall tumor # 13
18) KIDNEY. Solid # 14
19) KIDNEY, Solid # 15
) KIDNEY, Solid # 16
) KIDNEY, Solid #17
) KIDNEY, Solid # 18
23) KIDNEY, Solid # 19
) KIDNEY, Normal tissue adjacent to # 19
) KIDNEY. Solid # 20
) KIDNEY, Solid # 21
27) FAT, Perirenal
) FAT, Perirenal lower pole
29) SKIN BIOPSY
) RIB, 11th left

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSLILTATION

 

Patinnf Identiﬁnofinn

 

 

 

 

 

Frozen Section Diagnosis ‘IFS: Benign fibrous tissue. (Diagnosis render

-)
Frozen Section Diagnosis 2FS: Benign fibroadipose tissue. _)
Frozen Section Diagnosis 3FS: Benign fibroadipose tissue _.)
Frozen Section Diagnosis 4FS: Benign fibrous tissue. _

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

1. Received fresh for frozen labeled with the patient's name. medical record number, and
"pseudocapsule/lateral tumor" is a fragment of wispy red and tan, soft tissue measuring 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm.,
which is frozen in its entirety as 1FS1.

2. Received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number, and as "anterior
peri-renal fat" consists of a yellow, light/tan fragment of soft tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm., which is
frozen in its entirety as 2FS.

3. Received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient’s name. medical record number. and as "peri-renal
fat - upper pole" consists of a single fragment of yellow fatty tissue. measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm., which is
frozen in its entirety as 3FS.

4. Received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient's name. medical record number, and as "scar
tissue" is a single tan/red fragment of soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.7 X 0.3 cm.. which is frozen in is entirety
as 4FS.

5. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and "solid #1"
is an off—white to tan nodule measuring 4 x 4 x 3 cm. Sectioning of the specimen demonstrates light tan to
golden-yellow soft tissue. Portions of the specimen are procured by-- lab. A representative portion
of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology and is placed In a single cassette marked

6. Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient’s name. medical record number, and as "solid #2" is a

single tan nodule measuring 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. A portion of the specimen is rocured by I-Iab.
The remainder of the Specimen is placed in a single cassette marked-p

7. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and as "solid
#3" consists of two off-white fragments of soft tissue, measuring in aggregate 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Half of the
specimen is procured byI-ab. The remainder of the specimen is placed in its entirety in a single

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

 

 

 

cassette marked- The specimen is placed in a biopsy bag before hand.

8. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number, and as "scar
tissue #4" are two red fragments of soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is
divided and portions are given to -- lab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical
Pathology is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

9. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and "solid #5"
are two fragments of light tan soft tissue measuring in aggregate 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm.. which are placed in their
entirety in a single white cassette marked

10. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and as "solid
#6" consists of a tan nodule of soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. The specimen is sectioned to reveal
red and gold soft tissue. Half of it is procured b lab and the remainder of the specimen is
placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

11. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and
as "solid #7" consists of a single light tan fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. , which is
submitted in its entirety in a white cassette marked

12. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name. medical record number, and as "solid
#8" consists of two tan fragments of soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. Half of the

specimen is procured by I lab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology
is placed in a single cassette marked

13. Received in a single formalin-ﬁlled container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and
as "solid #9" is a single irregularly shaped fragment of light tan soft tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm., which
is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

14. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient’s name, medial record number, and
"solid #10" are multiple fragments of light tan soft tissue measuring in aggregate 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm., which are
filtered through a biopsy bag and submitted in their entirety in a single cassette marked

15. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient's name. medical record number, and
as "solid #11" is a single irregularly shaped fragment of Ii ht tan soft tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. which
is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked i

16. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and as "solid
#12" are multiple fragments of light tan soft tissue. measuring in aggregate 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm, which are

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

 

wrapped in lens paper and submitted in entirety in a single cassette marked-

17. Received in a single formalin-ﬁlled container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and
as "upper pole cyst wall #13" consists of light tan and fibrofatty soft tissue measuring in aggregate 2 x 1 x 0.
cm., which are placed in their entirety in a single cassette marked

18. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and
as "solid #14“ consists of multiple fragments of light tan and gold—colored soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.2
x 0.8 x 0.4 cm., which are filtered through a biopsy bag and submitted in their entirety in a single cassette
marked

19. Received in a single formalin—filled container labeled with the patient's name. medical record number, and
as "solid #15" is a single fragment of light tan soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. which is wrapped in
lens paper and submitted in its entirety in a single cassette marked

20. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and as "solid
#16" is a gold/red fragment of soft tissue measuring 5 x 5 x 4.5 cm. It is sectioned to reveal yellow—gold tumor
in a nodular mor holog . Some of the tumor is soft with areas of hemorrhage. Portions of the tumor are
procured by I“ lab. The specimen is then forwarded to Surgical Pathology. A representative portion
of this specimen is placed in a single white cassette marked

21. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and as "solid
#17" is a small tan nodule measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. A portion of the specimen is given tc-

lab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology is placed in its entirety in a single
cassette marked

22. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number. and "solid
#18" is a small light tan, soft tissue nodule measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Half of the specimen is procured by

lab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology is placed in its entirety in
a single white cassette marke

23. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and "solid
#19" is a sin le light tan soft tissue nodule measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. One-half of the specimen is given to

diab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology is placed in its entirety in
a single cassette marke

24. Received in a single formalin—filled container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and
as "normal tissue adjacent to #19" is a single nodular fragment of light tan soft tissue measuring 1 x 0.7 x 0.4
cm., which is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

 

 

 

25. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and as "#20"
is a single red/brown fragment of soft tissue in a nodular shape. measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. One-half of the
specimen is given to I-lab. The remainder of the specimen is forwarded to Surgical Pathology is
placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

26. Received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and as "solid
#21" is a small Ii ht tan soft tissue fragment measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. One—half of the specimen is
procured by .hlab. The remainder of the tissue is forwarded to Surgical Pathology is placed in its
entirety in a single cassette marked

27. Received in a single formalin-ﬁlled container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and
as "perirenal fat" is a single fragment of fibrofatty tissue measuring 4 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen has areas
of fibrosis along with fibrofatty tissue. The specimen is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked-

28. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and
as "perirenal fat lower pole" consists of multiple fragments of yellow fibroadipose tissue, measuring in aggregate
2.5 x 2 x 1.0 cm. The specimen is submitted in its entirety in toto in three cassettes marked

29. Received in a saline in a single container labeled with the patient’s name, medical record number, and as
"skin biopsy" is an ellipse of skin measuring 2.2 X 1.0 x 0.7 cm. A fragment of the specimen is kept by
Surgical Pathology and the remainder is given to -- lab for fibroblastic culture. That portion
forwarded to Surgical Pathology is placed in its entirety in a single cassette marked

30. Received in a single formalin-filled container labeled with the patient’s name. medical record number. and
"11th rib - left" is a bony fragment in a shape consistent with segment of rib. It measures 6 cm. in greatest
length. The proximal end measures 1.4 x 0.5 cm. and it tapers off to a caitilaginous end. There is a small
amount of ﬁbrous tissue and skeletal muscle associated with the specimen. This specimen is described for a
gross diagnosis only.

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

I

 

