Clinical Diaqnosls 3: History:

-ilh left renal mass: hro chordoma.

Sgecimens Submitted: ‘

1: SP: Kidney and adrenal gland, left, radical nephrectomy-
2: SP: Lymph nodes, pare-aortic, excision

3: SP: Lymph nodes, suprahiiar, abrcision

4'. SP: Lymph nodes, interaortacairal, excisior-

 

 

 

Ref. Source:

 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
Date of Report:
Account#:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

.TCGA—BP—4985

 

DlAGNOSiS:
1. SP: Kidney and adrenal gland, left, radical nephrectomy-

Tumor Type: E
Renal cell carcinoma — Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrmen Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade IVIIV

Tumor Size: ;
Greatest diameter is 12.0 cm.

Local Invasion (for renai cortical types):
involves renal sinus fat

Renal Vein Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins: l
Free of tumor "

Non-Neoplastic Kidney: l
Mild interstitial ﬁbrosis and tubular atrophy

Adrenal Gland:
Not involved

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomaloncocyioma:

pT3a Tumor inyades the adrenal gland or perinephrio tissues but not beyond Gerote‘s fascia

u-._..—..—.a--u~v.—.—.._.,--__. ........ l. .................

2. SP: Lymph nodes, para-aortic, excision-
Lymph Nodes: ‘

 

Page 1 of 4

 

 

Not involved
Number of nodes examined113

3. SP: Lymph nodes, suprahila'r, excision-
Lymph Nodes: 5
Not involved
Number of nodes examinedzo
...................................... l--.----.--...--.

I
4. SP: Lymph nodes, interaorta‘oaval. excision-
Lyrnph Nodes: ‘
Not involved
N umber of nodes examined:3

i
I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DLAGNOSJS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (ANDIOR OTHER WTERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED TRIS REPOfST.

 

 

Sgecial Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment

CHR

SYN

CHR

SYN

NEG CONT

NEG CONT

IMM RECUT

lMM RECUT

Gross Description:

i.) The specimen is received fresh labeled "left adrenal and kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels
and perinephric tat weighing 983 g in total. The kidney measures 14.0 x 10.5 x 7.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 6.5 cm in
length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 8.0 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland ls identiﬁed, measuring 6.0 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning through the
adrenal gland reveals central hemorrhage. The specimen is int-red black posierioriy and anterioriy, and bivalved to reveal a
Iobuiated golden yellow solid and pystic tumor, with multiple ﬁbrous bands, areas of hemorrhage and necrosis, measuring 12.0 x
9.5 x 7.0 cm. The tumor extensively Involves the renal sinus and hilar fat. The tumor penetrates through the renal capsule into
perirenai fat. The tumor extendslto within 0.2 cm of Garcia's fascia. Extension of tumor into the renal vein is not identiﬁed.
Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink broWn parenchyma, with a well-defined cortico-meduiiary junction. The
cortex measures 1.0 cm and the calyces appear normal. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed In the perinephric fat. The Specimen is
photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections: .

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margin

Tn tumor .

TCF - tumor penetrating renal capsule into perironai lat
THF-- tumor with hilar lat

TSF —- tumor with sinus fat

TPlvi - tumor in relation to posterior margin

TGF - tumor In relation to Gerota‘s fascia

TK ~— tumor with adjacent kidney E

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

Not involved ‘
Number of nodes examined:13

3. SP: Lymph nodes, suprahtlar,excision-
Lymph Nodes: .
Not involved _
Number of nodes examinedz6

..._---.---..-..-...._-......~ .......... .3 ................

4. SP: Lymph nodes, lnteraortacaval excision-
Lymph Nodes. .
Not involved ‘
Number of nodes examined:3

 

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE oIAGNOSIa is ensue UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMENATION or THE suoes (neuron OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THls REPORT

 

 

 

Special Studies: 3
Result 3 Special Stain Comment

CHR
SYN
CHR
SYN
NEG CONT
NEG CONT
iMM RECUT
lit/EM RECUT

t. ) The specimen is received fresh labeled "left adrenal and kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels
and perinophric fat weighing 983 g in total The kidney measures 14. 0 x 10. 5 x 7. 0 cm. The attached ureter measures 6. 5 cm in
length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 8.0 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is identiﬁed. measuring 6 0 x 2. 5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning through the
adrenal gland reveals central hemorrhage. The specimen is inked black posteriorly and anteriorly, and bivatvod to reveal a
lobuiated golden yellow solid and cystic tumor,w with multipleI ﬁbrous bands, areas of hemorrhage and necrosis measuring 12. 0 x
9. 5 x 7.0 cm. The tumor extensively involves the renal sinus and hilar fat. The tumor penetrates through the renal capsule into
perirenal let The tumor extends to within 0.2 cm of Gerota' s fascia. Extension of tumor into the renal vein is not identiﬁed.
Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma with a Well- defined cortico- medullarylunction. The
cortex measures 1 0 cm and the calyces appear normal No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric fat The specimen is
photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Gross Description:

Summary of sections:

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins

T-- tumor

TCF tumor penetrating renal capsule into perirenal tat
Ti-iFw tumor with hilar fat

TSF —— tumor with sinus fat

TPM - tumor in relation to posterior margin

TGF - tumor in rotation to Gerota‘s fascia

TK -- tumor with adjacent kidney

Page 2 of 4

 

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections
K .- representative sections kidney
AD -- adrenal giand 5

2). The specimen is received in formalin. Eebeted “Paraaortic lymph node" and consists of 11 possible lymph nodes ranging from
0.1 to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. Ali possible tymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN—lyrnpn nodes submitted whole
BLN —— bisected lymph node

   

3). The specimen ls received in iiormeir'n. a e e - uprs er ymp o e and consists of two possible lymph nodes measuring
0.2 and 0.4 cm in greatest dimension with attached hemorrhagic rough tan soft tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U-meiesignated

4). The specimen is received in fprmalin. iebeted "lntereortaoavel lymph node" end consists of three fatty appearing lymph nodes
ranging from 0.3 to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension, which are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections: i
LN-iymph nodes submitted whoiel
BLNt ~- bisected lymph node number one
BLNZ ~~ bisected lymph node number two

Summam of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Kidney and adrenal giend, left, radical nephrectomy-

Block Sect. Site PCs

1 AD '
K

RP i

T

TCF i

TGF 3

THF

TK

TPM

TSF

UVM

4MAAnA-AHANN...‘
ANAAAAJMMﬁne

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, pare-aortic, excision-

Block Sect. Site PCs
‘i bin j , ‘i
3 In 3

Part 3: SP: Lymph nodes, suprahiiar, excision-

Block - Sect. Site PCs
1 u i

Part4: SP: Lymph nodes. Interaortacevai, excision-
Block Sect. Site PCs

Page 3 of 4

 

 

i blni “i
i . bin2 i
i u t

 

Page 4 of 4 END OF REPORT

 

