k3
.

2
i
i
i

I

I
i

 

naranramr orriiraoeoer '
SURGICAL i’A'I‘IIiMﬂQGY serum 1 m-

”‘5’” ’ 3 “Fr/draw, M4 wr-

9

iii :31 {éi’iéii CWM,

 

,., s . . ' . . fW/3
{stiﬂij‘sixirﬁﬁz} I Right breast tissue. ‘7
‘ PM' 3%, C094, , W
Li! iiCS‘J ' MW ﬁmM (13%.? "
313.52. ‘3‘?! i
l I/n/ll
Clinic‘s} i W
Magnesia i
Griereting ; CQcF: W, M0 5 C50 - 4 Pathology Numbe-

 

 

Gmes Examination:

The specimen is received in a single containe' labeled with the patient’s name, history
number, date and "right/breast tissue". Received is a right breast weighing 982 grams. The
breast measures 19.0 x 17.0 x 4.0 cm. in greatest dimensions and there is an axillary tail
that measures 11.0 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm. in greatest dimensions. The skin ellipse on the surface of
the breast is unremarkable. There is no evidence of induration or ulceration. The nipple is
likewise unremarkable with no retraction of the nipple, induration or ulceration. There is no
incision noted on the skin ellipse. Palpation of the breast reveals a firm nodule in the upper
ou_tﬂf“qua_grant of the breast that measures 2.0 x 2.1! XLS cm. in greatest dimensions. The
nodule is located in The approximately ten o'clock position with relation to the nipple and
measures 5.5 cm. from the nipple. On sectioning the mass is revealed to be firm and
whitish-tan. The tumor comes to within 3.5 cm. of the deep margin of the specimen. The
deep margin is grossly not involved by tumor. A section of the deep margin underneath the
tumor is taken and placed in Block L The tumor comes to within 0.5 cm. of the skin.
Sections of the tumor are taken and placed in Blocks ii, iii, and iV. A section througn the
nipple is placed in Block V. Serial sectioning of the remainder of the breast tissue does not
reveal any other firm masses. A representative section from the lower outer quadrant is
tan-zen and placed in Block Vi. A section from the lower inner quadrant is placed in Block Vii
and a section from the upper inner quadrant of breast tissue is placed in Block VI". A
section if skin overlying the tumor is placed in Block IX. The axillary tail is divided into
the standard three areas and lymph nodes from the first area are placed in Block X. Lymph
nodes from the second level are placed in Block Xi. Lymph node candidates from the third,
level are placed in Block Xii. Adderwlum: it. Should be noted that tissue has been mt from
the tumor for FIR/2’15? receptors.

no=:zt’rszzise‘ii‘iﬂ’i“Hmﬁi‘iﬁililtad

ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
illllllillIllulllillllilllliillllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

ll llllllIllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllll|||
n; e ;-.: ears;- “itiGi n' BREAST", mnsrac'ron y:
A.) BREAST wm: mrnADucrAt. AND maturnm'mc
DUC’l‘AL CARCINOMA nanny. NUCLEAR GRADE POORLY

{Vii-"FERENTIATKD lilS‘I‘OLO‘GiC GRADE 3 OF 3. MARGiH’S
A it“: F'tiiiii 0F TUMOR.

ii.) SEVERE DUCTAI. EPi’I‘HHLlAL HYPERPLASM.

C.) FOURTEHN AXlidiAil‘Y LYMPH NOD88.
N0 CARCER SKKN.

Tumor Site
HIPM

Case is

 

