  

CGA—ﬁﬁ-2792

Material examined:

Left lung, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Left central bronchial carcinoma, originating from lower lobe (squamous cell carcinoma), probably massive
exposure to radiation during

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

l.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed left lung measuring 14 x 9 cm at the base and up to 27 cm high, central bronchus resection
plane located 2.5 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus. Main bronchus largely
skeletonized. Pleural ﬁssure shows dorsal cord—shaped area of obliteration, ID x 5 cm dorsal area of parietal
pleura over segment 6 in parts extensively adhesive, in parts loosely attached. At the hilus a 0.5 cm mobile
grayish-black node. Lower lobe bronchus constricted at bifurcation and in the proximal section by a central hard
pale brown to whitish tumor, max. 5 cm in size, with unclear demarcation and the main mass located in the
lower lobe, extending right up to the hilar resection surface and into the main bronchus, whose mucosa
proximal to the ostium of the lower lobe shows an irregular protrusion over a section of 1.5 cm and is partly
cracked. Tumor distance from central bronchus resection plane at least 2 cm. Involvement of some grayish—
black nodes up to 1.5 cm by the tumor. Crossing of pleural ﬁssure and inﬁltration of adjacent upper lobe. In
segment 4, at least 1.2 cm from tumor margin, a 0.6 cm pale brown to gray area, with relatively clear
demarcation, suggestive of tumor, distance from pleura at least 1.5 cm. Parenchyma close to tumor in segment 6
indurated and brownish-gray in patches. Extension of lesion to the pleural adhesion zone. Apical parenchyma in
segment 1 shows coarsely cystic rarefaction with lacunae or lacuna systems of up to 2.5 cm. Diffuse
solidiﬁcation of iower lobe parenchyma. Subpleural ventromedial area in segment 3 shows a 0.5 cm disk—
shaped blackish node. Subpleural ventral area in segment 6 has a similar node 0.9 cm in size.

2.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.3 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

3.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) left: 1 cm fatty tissue specimen, containing a 0.4 cm blackish node.

4.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 2.3 cm node part with surrounding tissue.

5.) Paraaortic LN (station 6) left: 1 cm fatty tissue specimen with a 0.4 cm node.

6.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): two lesioned nodes with some surrounding tissue, 1.2
and 1 cm.

7.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: two nodes with some surrounding tissue, 0.9 and 0.6c1n.

8.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 1 cm lesioned node part.

Examined:

1.) a: Tumor with rest of parenchyma, b: tumor with pleural ﬁssure (upper lobe part color—marked), c: tumor
with hilar resection surface (color—marked), (1: main bronchus + 2nd tumor focus (peribronchial resection
surface color—marked), e: 86 with pleural adhesion + node in S3, f: Segment 8 + node in S6 (halved), g: Si
apical, h: central bronchus resection plane, resection margins of vessels, mobile hilar node, i: 2nd tumor focus ,
j: tumor with peribronchial node,

2.) — 5.) and 7.) and also 8.) All material (in 3. + 5. nodes isolated in each case, in 4. + B. preparations
lamellated in each case),

6.) node (halved),

17 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS.

 

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological findings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Locally advanced, central bronchopuhnonary, histologically poorly differentiated, nonkeratinizing squamous
cell carcinoma of the right upper lobe of the lung.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT3 le pMX R0, stage BIA.

C 34.3; M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Active chronic and focal organizing pneumonia at the tumor margin. Cicatricial zone or chronic atelectasis
peripherally in 86 with overlying adhesion of pleural layers. Subpleural bullous pulmonary emphysema in the
apex of the upper lobe. Alternately marked intraalveolar accumulation of brown and anthracotic pigment-
storing macrophages (sample 1.)). Lymph nodes with reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits
(samples 2.) — 8)).

Remarldaddendum:

The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels, the hilar resection surface and the small intrapulmonary
lymph nodes of the main preparation and the lymph nodes of sample 2.) are tumor—free.

2. Additional report
An error in the primary diagnosis has to be improved. It is a bifocal bronchopulmonary carcinoma with the
main location in the leii lower lobe.

1. Additional report
An error in the TNM classiﬁcation has to be corrected. It is pT2(2) le pMX R0, stage IIB.

 

