quD:csrssuoa-ercs-47aa-A -
TCGA-FD- scs mmassm

muumuuumImliiliiiiii'i'immmIiIlliﬁll'llﬁiiad
mHuluummnHulmmmuuum
mmulllmmmluHumImlluIImillliiiiilllilllim

Gender: Male
DOB:
Race:
Report Date: -

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

 

 

 

A. Right distal ureter; biopsy:

- Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor or dysplasia.
B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:

- Two of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(2/8) with extranodal extension.
C. Right pelvic lymph nodes:

- Two of thirteen lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(2/13) with extranodal extension.
D. Left distal ureter; biopsy:

- Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor or dysplasia.
E. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:

- One of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(1/8).
F. Bladder, prostate, seminmal vesicles, vas deferens; radical
cystoprostatectomy:

— High-grade urothelial carcinoma, see pathologic parameters.

- Ulcerated mucosa with marked granulomatous reaction consistent with
therapy effect.

- Adenocarcinoma of prostate, see below.

Urothelial Carcinoma ’ CD ”0/ 3
1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma WCg'nOrm ' lAJOH‘xcl fool ,v’JOS
2. Grade of tumor: High-grade
3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular fat {IZOIg
4. Tumor distribution: Sl~l€x
Solitary, 3.8 cm in size , ' , g
left lateral wall Pugh" . HQCHZI’, D 0 q
posterior wall C” CD 3‘
5. Ureteral Margins: Negative (Q U: . 04c r
6. Distal urethral margin: Negative I ’Otaacg'ef’ H ’ I a i
7. Lymph nodes: Five of 29 lymph nodes positive for metastatic urothelial C (0‘) , Z.
carcinoma
8. pTNM: pT3a, N2, MX V442.

'Zo

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

1. Gleason' s Grade: 6 (3+3)
2. Perineural invasion: Absent
3. Tumor location:

Peripheral zone - right
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: 1%

5. High-grade P.I.N.:- Multifocal

6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor

7. Fibromuscular capsule: Tumor conﬁned to the prostate

8. Peripheral margin: Negative for tumor

9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor

10. Proximal (basilar) margin: Negative for tumor

11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostatic tumor
12. pTNM: pT2a, N0, MX

xxx
[], M.D.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident or Fellow.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD.

Clinical History:
The patient is a year-old male with bladder cancer who undergoes radical
cystectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection.

Specimens Received:

A: Right Distal Ureter

B: Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes

C: Right Pelvic Lymph Nodes

D: Left Distal Ureter

E: Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes

F: Bladder, Prostate, Seminmal Vesicles, Vas Deferens

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in six containers, each labeled with the patient name
and medical record number.

A. Part A is further designated as "1. right distal ureter." Received fresh

for frozen section is a 0.7 cm segment of pink-tan tissue with a 0.5 cm lumen,
consistent with a ureter. The specimen is serially sectioned and partially
submitted for frozen section, which is read as "segment of ureter, no evidence
of tumor and no dysplasia" per Dr. []. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted in cassette A2.

B. Part B is further designated as "2. left pelvic lymph nodes." Received

fresh for frozen section is a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of pink-tan,

fibrofatty tissue. Two lymph nodes are submitted for frozen section and read as
"one lymph node with microscopic focus (<2 mm) of metastatic urothelial
carcinoma, another lymph node is benign, reactive" per Dr. [] The frozen
section remnant is submitted in cassette BlF S. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted entirely as follows:

BZ: one large lymph node, bisected
B3: one large lymph node, bisected
B4: three small lymph nodes

BS-B6: remaining fibroadipose tissue

C. Part C is further designated as "3. right pelvic lymph nodes." Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm aggregate of fibrofatty

tissue. Multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed upon dissection, the largest
measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 0.2 cm. The lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

C1-C11: one large lymph node in each cassette, some are bisected and/or
serially sectioned
C12: four lymph nodes

D. Part D is further designated as "4. left distal ureter. " Submitted fresh

for frozen section is a 0.9 cm length of pink-tan, rubbery tissue with a 0.6 cm
external diameter and a 0.3 cm lumen. The specimen is bisected and submitted
for frozen section. The frozen section is read as "ureteric segment with no
evidence of tumor and no dysplasia" by Dr. [] The remainder of the frozen
section is submitted in cassette D1 F S. The remaining specimen is submitted in
cassette D2.

E. Part E is further designated as "5. left pelvic lymph nodes." Received in
formalin is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm aggregate of soft, ﬁbrofatty tissue, which is
dissected to reveal multiple lymph nodes. The specimen is submitted as follows:

E1-E4: one large lymph node in each cassette, bisected
E5: four possible lymph nodes
E6: four possible lymph nodes

F. Part F is further designated as ”6. bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas
deferens." Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 9.5 x 8.0 x 5.5 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric fat. The attached prostate
measures 4.0 x 3.8 x 2.9 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 4.0 x 1.5 cm and
the left vas deferens measures 9.5 cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.5 x
1.8 cm and the right vas deferens measures 9.0 cm. The entire specimen is inked
blue. The prostate is opened along the urethra and reveals tan-brown, wrinkled
mucosa. The bladder itself measures 6.0 x 5.0 x 3.8 cm. The right ureteral
stump measures 2.4 cm and has a patent lumen. The left ureteral stump measures
2.0 cm and also has a patent lumen. There is a 3.8 x 2.6 cm ulcerated, red—tan
lesion on the left posterolateral wall, reaching from the left trigone to the
bladder dome. Grossly, the mass extends into the prostatic urethra and the left
half of the prostate. The right ureteral oriﬁce at the trigone can be probed,

the left cannot. Sectioning of the mass shows gross tumor invasion of the
mucosal wall, 1.0 cm from the deep margin. The mucosa of the anterior wall is
glistening and pink-gray in color. Sectioning of the prostate reveals
trabeculated, pink—tan periurethral nodularity. No lesions are grossly

identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

F 1: distal resection margin

F 2-F4: representative section of lesion from left posterolateral wall
F5: representative lesion in bladder dome

F6: right posterior bladder wall

F7: right anterior bladder wall

F9: anterior bladder wall

F10: right inferior bladder wall

F11-F15: representative sections of the left prostate
F16-F 20: representative sections of the right prostate
F21: seminal vesicles and vas deferens

F22: distal ureter

F23: distal vas deferens

XX

[] M.D.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

AlF S. Right distal ureter: Segment of ureter, no evidence of tumor and no
dysplasia.

BlFS. Left pelvic lymph nodes: One lymph node with microscopic focus (<2 mm)
of metastatic urothelial carcinoma, another lymph node is benign, reactive.

DIFS. Left distal ureter: Ureteric segment with no evidence of tumor and no
dysplasia.

