UUID: 40F557AB— 987A- 422A- 3283- ll11F2119EE3eFd
TCGA- DK- A212- 01A- PR dca

|IllIlllIll||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||l|||lIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIlllted .
l ||||llllll llll|||||||ll|||l||||l|||||l||lll|||| |||||| '

 

 

PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name: Accession #:
Med Ron ﬂ- Date of Procedure:
DOB: _ , Location: Date of Receipt:
Gender: F Service: urorogy Date of Report:
Ref. Physician: Account #:
Patient Address: Billing Type: INPATIENT

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8- Histog:

Bladder carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:

SP: Right ureter; segemental excision

SP: Left ureter segmental excisior

SP: Lymph nodes, right comon iliac; dissection

SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection

SP: Lymph nodes, left common iliac; dissection

SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection

SP: Bladder. uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries, cervix; resection
SP: Left ureter #2; segmental excision

.°?§‘.°?F’.‘§S€’N:‘

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. SP: Right ureter; excision " I c5, 0 -5
- Benign segment of ureter.

 

2. SP: Left ureter, excision I a
- Segment of ureter with urothelial carcinoma in situ. 9/ 90/

Jib: awry», was 6 1.7- 7
3. SP: Lymph nodes, right comon iliac; dissection: '
Lymph Node Dissection: 5/5”,"

Metastatic urothelial carcinoma

Number of lymph nodes examined: 4

Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 4

Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.7cm.

Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.2 cm.

Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

4. SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 10

  

Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2 .

Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.7cm. W, ,.. ___.._._—— "‘ -
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.6 cm. Wnn- w ""
Extranodal extension is identified M” ’—

  

 

 

5. SP: Lymph nodes, left common iliac; dissection: ——,—--/-0 11/514] 1 l;
Lymph Node Dissection:

a

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 6

 

 

6. SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:

Metastatic urothelial carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 12
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.6cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.4 cm.
Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

7. SP: Bladder, uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries. cervix; resection:

Tumor Type:
Urgtheli‘alacarcinoma with mixed histologic features, includi rig: NOS, squamous and sarcomatoid features

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:
Flat (in situ carcinoma)
CIS is extensive

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
\ Inﬁltrating

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

 

Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesical soft tissues

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Right ureter involved
Left ureter involved
Urethra involved

Vascular Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Tumor present at left ureteral margin

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting chronic cystitis

Female Genital Organs:
The vagina shows no pathologic abnormalities
The endometrium shows atrophy
The myometrium shows leimyomata
Remaining genital organs are unremarkable

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
LN Not involved 3
43% Metastatic carcinoma present in 5 nodes

 

Page 2 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Extracapsular extension is present

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicie soft tissue};

 

8. SP: Left ureter #2; excision:
- Urotheiial carcinoma in situ.

| ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out "" 1

 

Gross Description:
Olca

1)The specimen received fresh, labeled “right ureter“ and consists of 0.7x0.6x0.3 cm tan pink issue fragment. At the center, a
ureter with 0.3 cm lumen is seen. Entirely submited for frozen section.

Summay of sections:
FSC- frozen section control

Olca

2)The specimen received fresh, labeled “left uretef' and consists of 1.2x0.5x0.3 cm tan pink issue fragment. At the center , a ureter
with 0.4 cm lumen is seen. Entirely submited for frozen section.

Summay of sections:
FSC- frozen section control

3.) ' The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Right common iliac lymph node" and consists of a 4.6 x 2.5 x 0.9 cm aggregate of
adipose tissue, which Is sectioned to reveal four, ﬁrm, ovoid, tan-pink lymph nodes, ranging from 0.6 to 2.1 cm greatest dimension.
All four lymph nodes are bisected and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

4. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes" is a 7.0 x 4.0 x 1.7 cm aggregate of ﬁbroadipose soft tissue
with multiple embedded lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 x 3.0 cm greatest dimension. One of the lymph nodes measuring 1.7
cm in greatest dimension has a ﬁrm cut surface. One half of this lymph node is submitted to the TPS. All identiﬁed lymph nodes
are submitted.

Summary of sections:

FLN- one half of the 1.7 cm ﬁrm lymph node
MLN1- one multisected lymph node

MLN2- one multisected lymph node

BLN- bisected lymph node

LN- lymph nodes

1|.

5. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Left common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of a 3.1 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm aggregate of
adipose tissue, which is sectioned to reveal six, ﬁrm, irregular to ovoid, tan-pink lymph nodes, ranging from 0.4 to 1.0 cm in
greatest dimension. The largest lymph node is bisected and all lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

 

Page 3 of 6

 

 

a

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes
BLN -— bisected lymph node

6. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Left pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an 8.1 x 4.3 x 1.1 cm aggregate of adipose
tissue, which is sectioned to reveal 12, ﬁrm. irregular to ovoid, tan-pink lymph nodes, ranging from 0.7 to 1.7 cm in greatest
dimension. All 12 lymph nodes are bisected and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
BLN — bisected lymph nodes

7. The specimen is received fresh. labeled "Bladder, uterus, bilateral ovaries and tubes, cervix". It consist of a 503.0 g, Bladder.
uterus, bilateral ovaries and tubes, cervix measuring 16.0 cm from superior to inferior, 10.5 cm laterally and 6.5 cm from anterior to
posterior. The bladder measures 6.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm, the uterus measures 12.0 x 7.0 x 4.5 cm, the right ovary measures 2.5 x 1.5 x
1.3 cm, the previously ligated right fallopian tube stumps collectively measure 5.0 cm, the left ovary measures 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm,
and the previously ligated left fallopian tube stumps collectively measure 4.5 x 0.3 cm. The portion of vaginal cuff measures 3.0 x
2.0 x 1.8 cm. The distal urethra and the vaginal cuff margin are shaved and submitted. The right ureteric stump measure 4.8 cm in
length and 0.5 cm in average diameter and shows no gross lesion, the left ureter stump measures 4.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in
average diameter and shows no gross lesions. The specimen is inked as left - black. right-blue and the bladder is opened
anterioriy to reveal a previously incised, 6.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm poorly deﬁned, ulcerated lesion,ch_ated at thegtrigpne, circumferentialiy
engulﬁng both ureteral oriﬁces, occupying a portion of therightposterior walland slightlyﬂencroagching on the left posterior wall. On
sectioning, the tumor extends to a depth of 1.7 cm, and 2.0 cm to extend into the penvesical'fat gfossry’I'The“Féma”ining bladder
mucosa is congested and tan-purple. The uterus is bivalved to reveal an 8.0 x 6.0 x 0.2 cm triangular endometrial cavity containing
a 0.1 cm thick, ﬂat, tan-pink glistening mucosa, devoid of a grossly identiﬁable lesion. The trabeculated tan-pink myometrium varies
from 0.7 to 1.0 cm in thickness and has multiple, rubbery, whorled, homogenous white whorled nodules, ranging from 0.7 to 5.9 cm
in greatest dimension. The ovaries and fallopian tubes show no gross lesions. The remaining specimen is submitted for lymph
node dissection and any identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted. Tissue has previously been submitted for 9y Dr.

(including right trigone oriﬁce). Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:

UTHM - urethral margin

RUM - right ureter margin

LUM -Ieft ureter margin

L -iesion, (full thickness cut in half x2)
RUO -right ureteric oriﬁce with tumor
LUO -Ieft ureteric oriﬁce with tumor
LP-ieft posterior wall with tumor
LA -ieft anterior wall

RP-right posterior wall with tumor
RA -right anterior wall

TRI —trigone with tumor

DOME -dome

F -perivesical fat with tumor

EMM -endomyometrium

CX-cervix

DVM -distai vaginal margin, shave
RT — right tube

RO — right ovary

LT -— left tube

LO - left ovary

BLN-bisected lymph node
PLN—possible lymph nodes

8. The specimen is received in formalin labeled "left ureter" is a 1.1 cm in length by 0.4 cm in average diameter segment of an
unoriented tubular structure with surrounding fat. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U- undesignated

Summay of Sections:

Page 4 of 6

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Part1:

Block

Part 2:

Block

Part 3:

Block

Part 4:

Block

NN-K—‘OJ

ANNAA—aﬁp—ngd—hé—L-xdgj—kN—b—kN—L

SP: Right ureter; segemental excision (fs)

Sect. Site PCs
Sc 1

SP: Left ureter, segmental excision (fs)

Sect. Site PCs
Sc 1

SP: Lymph nodes, right comon iliac; dissection

Sect. Site PCs
BLN 8

SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection

Sect. Site PCs
bin 3
ﬂn 1
In 1
m|n1 2
mm2 2

SP: Lymph nodes, left common iliac; dissection

Sect. Site PCs
BLN 2
LN 5

SP: Lymph nodes. left pelvic; dissection

Sect. Site PCs
BLN 24

SP: Bladder, uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries, cervix; resection

Sect. Site PCs
BLN
CX
DOME
DVM
EMM

m—L—lAm-AQQ—INN

A

m
_'
ANNAAmu—t—t—AAA

UTHM

 

Page 5 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Part 8: SP: Left ureter #2; segmental excision

 

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 u 1

Intraogerative Consultation:

1. SP: Right ureter ' Benign.
Permanent diagnosis: Same.

2. SP: Left ureter ' Carcinoma in situ.
Permanent diagnosis: Same.

 

 

Page 6 of6 END OF REPORT

