  

CGA-44— 3918

 

SPECIMEN

Left upper lobe FS
Node level 5

Node level 1

Left upper lobe
Node level 7

Node level 4

Node level 9

G’TJHUOUJCD‘

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung mass.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
FSA} Left upper lobe - Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Submitted fresh for frozen and tissue procurement
labeled ”left upper lobe" is a wedge resection of
pulmonary
tissue, which has a small incision previously made within it. The
wedge measures maximally 7 x 4 x 3 cm. Next to the incision site
there is some puckering of the pleura, which overlies a palpable
lung mass. Sutures are removed from the specimen and is then
serially sectioned. Sections through the specimen reveals a
puckered firm tan tumor mass immediately below the pleural surface
measuring maximally 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. Per request, a
portion of tissue is submitted for tissue procurement. A portion
of
tissue is submitted for frozen section. RS—tl. _
B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"node level 5" is a 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm blackhred irregular
soft tissue fragment which is bisected and entirely submitted in
ORE
cassette. ASwl.
C. Received in formalin labeled "node level 1” is a 1.5 x
1.5 x 0.6 cm pink black, irregular tissue fragment which
15

GROSS DESCRIPTION
bisected and entirely submitted in one cassette. ASHl.
D. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"left upper lobe" is a 20.0 x 6.5 x 3.5 cm remainder of
lobe. The specimen is partially covered with violaceous smooth
glistening pleura and shows multiple staple lines present
throughout
the specimen. The specimen is sectioned showing a pink—red spongy
cut surface with no discrete gross lesions identified. Multiple
black~red hilar nodes are grossly identified. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted as follows:

 

 

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — possible hilar lymph node; 2 — vascular and
bronchial margins; 3—4 — representative normal. RS—4.
E. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"node level 7" are two blackured irregular soft tissue
fragments which average 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimens
are entirely submitted in one cassette. ASHl.
F. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"node level 7" is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm gray—pink—black
irregular soft tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one
cassette. AS—l.
G. Received in formalin labeled "node level 9" is a 1.2 x
0.7 x 0.5 cm black-gray irregular soft tissue fragment
which is bisected and entirely submitted in one caesette. AS—l.

-
MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor pr): Tumor measures maximally 2.2 cm in size and is
confined to the lung {ple).

Margins of resection: Bronchial and vascular margins are free of
tumor.

   

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Hilar lymph nodes and all sampled

mediastinal
lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma (pNO).
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed (pr).

5,3x5,14

 

DIAGNOSIS

A. and D. Lung, left upper lobectomy:
Moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

The tumor is confined to the lung without involvement of the
visceral pleural surface.

Bronchial and vascular margins of resection are free of
tumor.

Seven bronchial lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/7).

E. Lymph node, level 5, resection:
Negative for malignancy.

C. Lymph node, level 1, resection:
Negative for malignancy.

E. Lymph node, level 7, resection:
Negative for malignancy.

F. Lymph node, level 4, resection:
Negative for malignancy.

G. Lymph node, level 9, resection:

DIAGNOSIS
Negative for mali nanc

    

——— End Of Report -—-

 

