MA, 0-3
4mm I‘M/”“47 N“ 9450/3
I
51%;:ﬁL/W/Wwv Cit/J
A} Wow/Ir

UUID:979388A8-CC61-4C03-BADC-BEF9ECSOC4BA
TCGA-BK-A26L-B1A-PR Redacted
Illlllllll

Ill |||||llllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||
lllllHllllllllllllllllllIlllIIIHIIIIIIIIHllllllllllllll
llHllHlllllllHl lHlllHlll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

INE

tal

   

Date Coll:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN

Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries.
Omentum

Left pelvic lymph node

Right pelvic lymph node

Para-aortic lymph node

Right peritoneal biopsy

Left peritoneal biopsy

OWMUOFDJ’

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Endometrial cancer
POST—OP DIAGNOSIS: Same.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh for tissue procurement, labeled "uterus,

cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries" is an 80 gm, 5.3 x 4.8
x 4.2 cm symmetrical uterine corpus with attached 3 cm cervix and
bilateral adnexa. The serosa is smooth tan-pink-red with a few
delicate tan—pink fibrous adhesions along the posterior aspect. The
annular 2.6 cm tan—pink ectocervix surrounds a 0.5 x 0.25 cm ovoid
patent os. Endocervical mucosa is mildly trabecular tan—pink. The
triangular 4 x 3.6 cm uterine cavity is lined by focally
papilliferous tan-pink endometrium. No tissue procurement is
performed. On sectioning, the papilliferous portion of the
endometrium appear in keeping with a lesion with a maximal thickness
of 1.4 cm, grossly extending greater than 2/3s of the endometrium
posteriorly. The remaining presumptively uninvolved endometrium is
flat and averages 0.1 cm in thickness. The myometrium is smooth,
pale tan and measures up to 2 cm in thickness. A few
wellecircumscribed, rubbery whorled tan-white leiomyomata measuring
up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension are present. Bilaterally, the
cerebriform pale tan—gold ovaries average 2.1 x 1.5 X 1.1 cm.
Stroma of both ovaries is pale tan with identifiable corpora
albicantia. The left ovary contains a single, smooth-lined cyst
measuring 0.7 cm. No tubal tissue is identified grossly.
“c“resentative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labeled.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Anterior cervix; 2 — anterior LUS (point of
continuity with the cervix inked blue); 3-6 — representative
anterior endomyometrium full thickness sequentially from fundus to
LUs; 7 - posterior cervix; 8 — posterior LUS (point of continuity
with the cervix inked orange); 9-12 - posterior endomyometrium
sequentially from fundus to LUS; l3 — leiomyoma not previously
represented; 14 — right ovary; 15 - left ovary.

B. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"omentum" is a portion of omentum which is yellow lobular
and fatty. This has an aggregate measurement of 14 x 10 x 7 cm.
The specimen is sectioned and palpated to show no discrete gross
lesions identified. Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted in 8 cassettes.

C. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"left pelvic lymph node" is a 5.5 x 5.5 x 3.0 cm. aggregate
of yellow lobular fatty tissue fragments which are palpated to
identify possible lymph nodes which ranged from 0.8 cm. to 5.5 cm.
in greatest dimension. Lymph nodes are entirely submitted as

 

follows: block 1 — two possible lymph nodes; block 2 and 3 - one

possible lymph node bisected, one half in each; 4 and 5 - one
possible lymph node bisected, one half in each; 6-8 - one possible
lymph node sectioned.

D. Received rrssu subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"right pelvic node" is a 6.5 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. aggregate of
yellow lobular fatty tissue fragments which are palpated to
identify. Lymph nodes range from 0.7 cm. to 4.0 cm. in greatest
dimension and are entirely submitted as follows: block 1 — four
possible lymph nodes; block 2 — one possible lymph node bisected;
block 3 and 4 — one possible lymph node bisected, one half in each;
block 5—7 — one pOSSible lymph node trisected one-third in each.

E. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"para-aortic nodes" are multiple yellow lobular fatty tissue
fragments which have an aggregate meaSurement of 4.0 x 3.5 x 2.2 cm.
The specimens are palpated to identify in 3 cassettes. AS—3.

F. Received in formalin labeled "right peritoneal biopsy"

is a 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.2 cm. yellow lobular fatty tissue
fragment. The specimen is bisected to show a yello 1obular fatty
cut surface is entirely submitted in one cassette. L.

G. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"left peritoneal biopsy" is a 3.5 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm. yellow
lobular fatty tissue fragment which is bisected to show yellow
lobular fatty cut surface, no discrete gross lesions identified.
The specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A-G. Microscopic examination of the hysterectomy specimen
with staging specimens reveals:

Histologic type: Serous adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.
Histologic grade: FIGO III.
Myometrial invasion: Present.
12 mm depth of invasion
15 mm depth of myometrial thickness
80% of myometrial wall
Cervix: Negative for tumor.
Primary tumor (pT) TNM (E‘IGO): ple (FIGO IIICl).
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.
Vascular invasion: Very prominent lymphatic and venous space
invasion is
identified best seen in blocks All and A12.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Metastatic serous carcinoma is
identified in
slide C3. This metastatic tumor measures 3 mm in greatest
dimension.
No extranodal tumor is identified. In the left pelvic lymph
nodes, one
of three lymph nodes is positive for metastatic tumor. In the

right
pelvic lymph nodes all seven lymph nodes are negative for
metastatic
tumor. In the periaortic lymph nodes, all three lymph nodes
are
negative for metastatic tumor. (le).

Distant metastasis (pM): Could not evaluate. (pMX).

Other findings: The omentum is negative for metastatic tumor and

the right and left peritoneal biopsies are negative for metastatic
tumor. The bilateral ovaries are negative for metastatic
tumor and are notable for adhesions and dilated cortical
inclusion glands. No fallopian tubes are identified. Benign
hyalinized leiomyomata are present.

5xl,3x3,4x3

 

DIAGNOSIS

A.

Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries, excision:
Serous carcinoma of the endometrium, invasive of 80% of the
myﬂﬁﬁeffiiﬁﬁTI”I"‘ﬂ'"‘ﬁ ""I I”’“m‘m' '"
Cervix negative for tumor.
Benign leiomyomata, benign serosa, benign bilateral ovaries.
No fallopian tube tissue present.
Prominent lymphovascular space invasion present.
Omentum, resection:
Negative for malignancy.
Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
Metastatic serous carcinoma identified in one of three lymph
nodes
(1/3).
Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
Seven lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/7).
Periaortic lymph nodes, dissection:
Three lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/3).
Right peritoneal biopsy:
Negative for malignancy.
Left peritoneal biopsy:
Negative for malignancy.

Comment: Overall staging ple Nl (FIGO IIICl).

:tronic Signature)

—-- End Of Report —~-

  
 

Criteria Va; V
“S ‘-

magnum Dmrepmrv

Pl .mary Tumnr Site Dizcrepanry

HIMA Discrepancy
5
Prmr Malmnamy History

  
 

tr Nomi

EQUALTIEZ /

__nm Rel/it wed:

Dad/Symmonog i‘rirn

       
  

