UUID: BTEIIEDB- “CS- 43(0- A78D- FBDSIZSRBTSSA
TCGA-WT-AB44-01A- PR

edacted
lllllllllllllll Illlllllllllll l|| ”llllll llll l||| R|||| |||||
lllllllllllllll llllllllllll lll llll II II II III llll ll
IlllllllllIIIlIlIllIIlllll|l|l|lllll|lllllllll|l|lllllll|ll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #2 SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #1
LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: F DATE RECEIVED:
DOB: TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:
4“:st (3 1:3
W CQLILLALEY)% «I Mustang '1 N05 6 Solo/5’
A: left breast SLN #1 time out mil
B: left breast SLN #2 time out @111 05 05¢

C: left breast SLN #3 time out w :MC J’

D: left breast SLN #4 time out . ' . . - g, l jig

E: leﬁ breast lumpectomy time out CZ) yeum; “(W A (( m,-

F: additional anterior left breast tissue ‘ . (.750 1’
a); may it)

year—old female with history of invasive Iobular carcinoma of the breast.

 

 

A. Lymph node (1 ), "left breast SLN #1". biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in one lymph node. (0/1)
Deeper sections and a pancytokeratin immunostain are negative in support of the above diagnosis.

B. Lymph node (1). "left breast SLN #2“, biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in one lymph node. (0/1)
Deeper sections and a pancytokeratin immunostain are negative in support of the above diagnosis.

C. Lymph node (1). "left breast SLN #3", biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in one lymph node. (0/1)
Deeper sections and a pancytokeratin immunostain are negative in support of the above diagnosis.

D. Lymph node (1), "left breast SLN #4", biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in one lymph node. (0/1)
Deeper sections and a pancytokeratin immunostain are negative in support of the above diagnosis.

E. Breast, "left breast lumpectomy", lumpectomy:
Invasive Iobular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. See comment.
Lobular carcinoma in—situ and atypical Iobular hyperplasia.
Previous biopsy site changes.

F. Breast, "additional anterior left breast tissue", excision:
Microscopic focus of invasive Iobular carcinoma. See comment.
Lobular carcinoma in-situ and atypical Iobular hyperplasia.

 

MR #: Page 1 of 4

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Number:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #1 ALT ID #:

comment.
INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST
Specimen Type: Lumpectomy
Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: 1:00, 6 cm FTN
Histologic Type: Invasive Iobular carcinoma
Size of Invasive Component: 1.5 cm in greatest dimension in the main lumpectomy. 0.3 cm in greatest dimension in the separately
submitted "additional anterior left breast tissue".
Tumor Multicentricity: Yes
Surgical Margins: The carcinoma is focally 1.5 mm from the anterior margin and focally 1.75 mm from the inferior margin in the
main lumpectomy (Specimen E); all other margins are greater than 0.2 cm away. In specimen F ("additional anterior left breast
tissue") which is unoriented, carcinoma is present at one shave margin/tissue edge while all other margins are 0.2 cm or greater
away.
Histologic Grade (Nottingham Histologic Score): Il/III

Tubule Formation: 3

Nuclear Grade: 2

Mitotic Count (40x objective): 1

Total Nottingham Score: 6/9
Ductal Carcinoma ln-situ (DCIS): Absent
Lobular Carcinoma ln-situ (LCIS): Present
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Tumor Necrosis: Absent
Nipple Involvement: Not applicable
Skin Involvement: Not applicable
Lymph Node Sampling:

Sentinel lymph node(s) only

Total number of involved nodes/total nodes found: 0/4

Non—neoplastic Breast Tissue: Focal atypical ductal hyperplasia. Fibrosis and prior biopsy site changes.
Prognostic markers: Ordered on prior biopsy. See for addendum
Time between tumor removal and placement into formalin g 1 hour: Yes
Fixation Time between 6-48 hours: Yes
Pathologic Staging:

pT1c an0(i-)

Primary Tumor (Invasive Carcinoma) (pT)
pT1c: Tumor >10 mm but d20 mm in greatest dimension

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
Modiﬁer(required only if applicable)

(sn): Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are removed, this modiﬁer
should not be used.

pN0 (i-): No regional lymph node metastases histologically, negative IHC
Distant Metastasis (M)
Not applicable

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reﬂects only current pathologic data and does not
incorporate full knowledge of the patients clinical status and/or prior pathology.

In Specimen F, immunohistochemical stain for smooth muscle myosin supports the diagnosis.

Amgtatlgn;

By this signature, I attest that l have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.

mElectronically Signed Out By***
Interpreted by:

MR #: Page 2 of 4
Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #2 ALT ID #2
Resident
A. Received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name "left female breast sentinel lymph node #1 out at " are two tan-pink

lymph nodes measuring 0.9 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm and 1.4 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm. The smaller lymph node is inked black. Both lymph nodes are
serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette A1.

B. Received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name "female left breast sentinel lymph node #2 time out " is a 2.3 x 1.8 x
0.6 cm aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbroadipose tissue that is palpated to reveal two possible lymph nodes measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.4

cm and 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The smaller lymph node is inked black. Both lymph nodes are sen‘ally sectioned and submitted
entirely in cassette B1.

C. Received in fcrrnalin labeled with the patient's name and “female left breast sentinel lymph node #3 time out is a 3.2 x
1.7 x 0.9 cm aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbroadipose tissue that is palpated to reveal two possible lymph nodes measuring 0.5x 0.5 x

0.3 cm and 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The smaller lymph node is inked black. Both lymph nodes are serially sectioned and submitted
entirely in cassette C1 .

D. Received in formalin labeled with the patients name and "left female breast sentinel lymph node #4 out at , is a 2.2 x 1.1
x 0.8 cm aggregate of yellow—tan ﬁbrcadipose tissue that is palpated to reveal one possible lymph node measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3
cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette D1.

E. Received fresh labeled with the patient’s information and “female left breast lumpectomy" is a 35 gm lumpectomy specimen
measuring 7.0 x 5.5 x 1.0 cm. The specimen has already been inked by the surgeon as follows:
Orange — Lateral

Yellow — Medial

Red — Superior

Blue — Inferior

Green - Anterior

Black — Posterior.

The specimen is serially sectioned from lateral to medial into twelve slices. In slices 6 through 8. there is a 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm ﬁrm
white well circumscribed mass that is:
0.1 cm from the anterior margin.

1.8 cm from the posterior margin.

1.5 cm from the superior margin.

2.2 cm from the inferior margin.

2.0 cm from the lateral margin.

1.6 cm from the medial margin.

The remainder of the breast parenchyma is yellow-white adipose tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:
E1 Slice #1 (lateral margin).

E2 Slice #2.

E3—4 Slice #3 bisected.

E5-7 Slice #4 trisected.

E8-9 Slice #5 bisected.

E10-12 Slice #6 trisected.

E13-14 Slice #7 bisected.

E15-17 Slice #8 trisected.

E18-20 Slice #9 trisected.

E21-22 Slice #10 bisected.

E23-24 Slice #11 bisected.

E25 Slice #12 (medial margin).

The specimen was removed from the patient at and placed in formalin at ' ‘ on and not removed from formalin until

F. Received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and “additional anterior left breast tissue" is a 2.7 x 1.9 x 1.0 cm piece of
yellow Iobular adipose tissue. The outer surface is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a yellow
homogeneous cut surface with no discrete lesion or abnormalities identiﬁed. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes

 

MR #:
Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #2

MR #: ALT ID #:
F1-F3. The breast was removed from the patient at , and placed in formalin immediately in the OR and not removed from
formalin until on today's date.

If immunohistochemical stains and/or in situ hybridization are cited in this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the

g ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ’ ' in compliance with CLIA’88
regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of “analyte speciﬁc reagents" and are subject to speciﬁc labeling requirements by the FDA. Known
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the

It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary.

 

 

MR #: Page 4 of 4
Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

