V's—r

10> - 0 - 3 I
UUID: .gZGGFABDEE- SifgxﬂaszAsgég- -D2DE85FF754ead 0 MA ‘ \W M05 8 ‘ 90 _'
, 9 IIII|IIIII|||||I|||||||I|||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIaIIIIEd w. ‘
“ III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII PM
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I II I "III III II IlIIIII ""

Jib: bIMIAW, NOS CV14

SPECIMEN

Right ureter

Left ureter

Urethral margin

Bladder, uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries.
Left pelvic node

Right pelvic node

Appendix

0 m m O O m w

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Bladder cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Right ureter, margin: Negative for malignancy.
B. Left ureter, margin: Negative for malignancy.
C) Urethral margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section
labeled "A - right ureter" and consists of a 0.4 cm in
diameter, 0.3 cm in length, piece of tubular tan tissue with a

pinpoint lumen. The specimen is entirely frozen as frozen section.
AFS-l.

 

B. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "B — left

ureter" is a 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm piece of tubular tan
tissue

with a pinpoint lumen. The specimen is entirely frozen as frozen
section

C. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "urethral
margin" and consists of a piece of pink soft tissue

measuring 1.2 x I x 0.2 cm. The specimen is dissected and
submitted

for frozen section diagnosis.

D. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "bladder,
uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries" and consists of a

GROSS DESCRIPTION
urinary bladder with attached uterus and bilateral adnexa. The
uterus measures 7 x 4 x 2 cm. The right ovary is tan—white and

measures 4.2 X l x 0.2 cm. Right uterine tube is pink and measures

 

7 cm. in length and 0.3 cm. in diameter. The left ovary is tan—white
and measures 3.5 x 1 x 0.4 cm. The left uterine tube is purple to
pink and measures 8 cm. in length and 0.3 cm. in diameter. The
ectocervix is white and measures 2.7 x 3 cm. The external 03
measures 0.2 x <0.1 cm. There is an adjacent cuff of vaginal tissue
measuring 6 x 3.5 cm. The urethra is identified and is inked. The
bladder is opened without inflation for tissue procurement. There
is a red tumor measuring approximately 2 x 1.2 x 2 cm. The tumor is
in the superior posterior right side of the specimen. There is
stenosis of the internal os. The uterine cavity is not well seen

on
initial sectioning. There is a polyp in the high endocervical

canal
measuring 1 cm. x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Sections after fixation.

Block summary: Dl left ovary; D2 left uterine tube; D3 right ovary;

D4 right uterine tube; D5,D6 vaginal cuff; D7, D8 uterine cervix;

D9, D10 endocervical polyp; D11, D12 endomyometrium; D13-D16
bladder

tumor; D17 right trigone; D. 18 right bladder wall up to tumor;
D19

left trigone; D20 left bladder wall; D 21 dome of bladder; D22
right

side of bladder; D23 left side of bladder; D 24—D26. Perivesicle
fat

E. Received unfixed labeled "left pelvic nodes" and
consists of multiple pieces of yellow soft tissue
measuring
4.5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm. Sections after fixation.
F. Received unfixed labeled "right pelvic node" and
consists of white pelvic nodes and consists of multiple
pieces of yellow and red soft tissue measuring 37x 2.5 x 1.4 cm.
Sections after fixation.
G. Received in formalin labeled "appendix" and consists
of

a thin white vermiform appendix measuring 5.2 cm. in
length

GROSS DESCRIPTION

and 0.3 cm. in diameter. There is an attached mesoappendix
measuring 2 x 4.5 x 1 cm. No serosal exudate is seen.

 

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Sections of the right ureter negative for malignancy
B. Sections of the left ureter negative for malignancy
C. Sections of the urethral margin are negative for malignancy
D.
The patient's tumor is unusually high grade. Since the surrounding
bladder is relatively normal appearing, the possibility of a
metastasis was considered — including metastatic melanoma.
Immunostains show no keratin staining. There is weak MART—l
staining of uncertain significance, but HMS—45 is negative. S—lOO
is equivocal with possible focal tumor cell staining. The
immunostain results are equivocal; in the absence of any history of
another tumor, the tumor probably represents a high grade
urothelial “__“”_‘~"'"
cell carcinoma.
I¢_*‘_._._______
Tumor grade: 4 (out of 4), WHO grade: High grade
Tumor size: 2 cm
Mitotic rate: 30 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.196 sq mm)
Multicentricity: Absent
Depth of invasion: Carcinoma invades through the
muscularis propria into perivesical soft tissue
Vascular invasion: Absent
Perineural invasion: Absent
Ureteral margins: Negative for malignancy
Urethral margin: Negative for malignancy
Adjacent bladder mucosa: Unremarkable
pTNM Stage: T3 N0

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Sections of the uterus show benign endocervical polyp and other
otherwise unremarkable. Sections of the ovaries and uterine tubes
are unremarkable. The vaginal cuff is unremarkable.

Antibody Results Comment
AEl-AE3 Negative

CK7 Negative

CK20 Negative

EMA Negative

MARTl Weakly positive
HMS-45 Negative

8—100 Eguivocal

 

Paraffin sections; 10% neutral buffered formalin

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified

as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.]
D. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 7 lymph nodes
F. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
G. Sections of appendix show fibrous obliteration of the
appendiceal
lumen.
3x3, 2, 5, 4x2 , 20x7
DIAGNOSIS

A. Ureter, right, biopsy: Negative for malignancy
B. Ureter, left, biopsy: Negative for malignancy
C. Urethral margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy

D. Bladder, uterus and bilateral adnexa, resection:
Urinary bladder: Poprly differentiated malignant tumor (see

/ -}a’tp§

 

 

 

micro) ”Va/1141’ .r(9in'\..
Uterine cervix: Benign endocervical polyp Lujnulnf
Endometrium: Inactive—type endometrium my

Myometrium: No pathological diagnosis
Ovaries, left and right: No pathological diagnosis
Uterine tubes, left and right: No pathological diagnosis

E. Lymph nodes, left pelvic biopsy:

There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 7 lymph nodes
F. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, biopsy:

There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
G. Vermiform appendix, resection: Negative for malignancy.

(Electronic Signature)

——— End Of Report -——

 
   
     
 
   
 

marl:
'vimary Tumor Site D‘m

IIPAA

is
Ichsz InI'I'aI'.

 

 

,_« mm: ',A

 

