UUID:ABD19558-3519-47D7-ABF1-84D83EA8
TCGA-AF-ASGK-BIA-PR 68A:

lllllIlllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll “da‘ted
HunuumulutlltmmrmullmlilullllllllliillllﬂlliHI!m

I
ll lllllllIllIIIIIIIIIHHIHHll“I”!"IIHIIIIHNHHImm

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN

A. sigmoid and upper rectum
B. Appendix

CLINICAL NOTES

PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancerous tumor

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Received are two containers labeled with the patient's name

and medical record number.

Container A is additionally labeled "sigmoid and upper

rectum." The specimen contains a 25 cm segment of large
intestine. Approximately 4 cm from one end of the specimen there is
a folded red tumor measuring 6.5 x 5.5 x 5 cm in greatest
dimensions. The remainder of the mucosal surface is unremarkable.
The tumor is sectioned to show an invasion through the muscular wall
and into the surrounding adipose tissue. The proximal and distal
margins of resection are grossly free. Lymph node dissection is
performed and lymph node candidates are submitted as per block
summary.

BLOCK SUMMARY: A1, A2 - proximal and distal margins: A3‘A5 - tumor
with deepest invasion; A6, A7 — representative sections of tumor; A8
— tumor in normal mucosa; A9 — normal mucosa; AlO~A22 — lymph

nodes.

B. Container B is labeled with the patient's name, medical

record number and "appendix." The appendix demonstrates a
single tan tubular structure measuring 9 cm. in length and up to 0.5
cm. in diameter. The serosal surface is tan smooth and glistening.
The mucosa is pink and glistening. The thickness of the appendiceal
wall is up to 0.3 cm. RS Bl, BZ

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately—differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): Invades through the muscularis propria and into
the pericolonic adipose tissue (pT3).

Proximal margin: Uninvolved
Distal margin: Uninvolved
Circumferential (radial) margin:
Vascular invasion: Not identified
Regional lymph nodes (pN): No metastasis is identified in 44 lymph
nodes (pNO).

Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor:
Distant metastasis (pM):
(pMX)-

Other findings:

Uninvolved

Not identified
Cannot be evaluated by the specimen

The appendix is unremarkable.

5, l

1'62) 0 —3

Mmacammm N05
3040/3
51 {'61 CID/am/‘ECbS/qmﬁ
C 19. 9
(Ma/z 7/1.;

DIAGNOSIS

A. sigmoid colon and upper rectum, resection:
— Adenocarcinoma, moderately—differentiated, 6.5 cm. and with
invasion through the muscularis propria into the pericolonic

adipose tissue.

— Surgical margins uninvolved.
— No evidence of metastasis in 44 lymph nodes (0/44).

E. Appendix, appendectomy:
~ No pathologic diagnosis.

_—— End Of Report ___

 
    

Cvkerla

‘
Dmgnosus Dasutpauty

Primary Tumur sue Ducyepmw

    

 

