  
 

BGA—AK—SMB

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right Renal Mass

Source of Specimen(s):
1: Right kidney
2: Portion of tight adrenal

Gross Description:
Received in two parts.
Source of Tissue: l. Labeled #1, "right kidney"

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled " light kidney". it consists of a
right kidney Weighing 850

grams and measuring 15.0 x 11.0 X 10.5 cm. The kidney is markedly
distorted from numerous bulging areas and it is grossly enlarged.

Superiorly at the hilum is some residual adrenal gland measuring 1.5 x 1.0
x 0.6 cm that is otherwise unremarkable. Also at the hilum are a few tan

to brown rubbery to fiim nodes measuring from 0.7 up to 1.5 cm. The nodes
have tan to brown cut surfaces. A segment of ureter measures 6.0 x 0.3 cm
and is grossly unremarkable. Also at the hilum the vessels are
unremarkable however, there is multiple bulging areas from the kidney.
Perinephric fat is only present in a few areas ranging from 0.1 up to 0.5

cm. Some of the fat that is Wei-lying some of the nodules will be

submitted for histological impression. Elsewhere, the capsule overlying

the presumed tumor nodules are inked black and will be submitted in
relationship to the kidney lesion. The specimen is bivalved disclosing a
yellowish—orange soft tumor measuring 12.0 x 9.0 x 9.5 cm comprising
approximately 80% of the kidney. The tumor markedly distorts the calyceal
system and is pushing into the renal pelvis and capsule. No gross

invasion into the aforementioned areas is identified. Fresh tissue was
prepared for_ in the mass there is
some white fibrous possible scar and an appreciable amount of hemorrhage.
The adjacent uninvolved parenchyma has slight scarring and well—defined
cortical—medullary junctions. Representative sections are submitted in

lA—P.

Designation of Sections: lA— ureter and vascular margins, IB- tumor in
relationship to renal pelvis, lC-«lD» tumor in relationship to capsule, IE"
center of tumor, lF— tumor in relationship to adjacent uninvolved kidney
parenchyma, lG— tumor overlying fat, 1H— residual adrenal gland, II—IJ-
—lP— additional section of tumor

 
  

 

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2, ”portion of right adrenal”

Gross Description: Received fresh labeled,

portion of right adrena " is a 6 gram, 5.0 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm portion of

adrenal gland. It is sectioned to reveal golden—yellow—orange unremarkable
cut surfaces. Representative sections are submitted in two blocks.

Designation of Sections: 2A-2B

Summary of Sections: multiple

Final Diagnosis:

1. Right kidney and adrenal gland, nephrectomy and partial adrenalectomy:
» Renal oncocytic neoplasm, 12 cm, confined to renal parenchyma (see
note).

— Vascular and ureteral margins, free of tumor.

— Adrenal gland, no tumor seen.

- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/7).

Note: Immunohistochemical stains show the tumor is positive for E—Cadherin
(membranous staining), many cells positive for CK7, and weakly positive

for Vimentin, whereas negative for ,CD10, CK903, and CD1 17 (only
cytoplasmic staining). Special stain colloidal iron shows many cells with
strong, granular cytoplasmic staining. Mucicarmine special stain is

negative. Differential diagnosis includes low grade chromophobe carcinoma
versus atypical Oncocytoma. Cytogenetic study is pending, and the result
may assist the differential diagnosis.

2. Portion of adrenal, completion of adrenalectomy:
- Adrenal gland, no tumor seen.

Procedures/Addenda
FC Cytogenetics Solid Tumor

Results—Comments
CYTOGENETIC ANALYSIS REPORTS

DIAGNOSIS: Right Renal Mass

KARYOTYPB: Normal male karyotype: 46,XY[20]

RESULTS: The renal mass was harvested after thirteen days in culture.
The chromosomes from twenty metaphases were counted and analyzed, and

three of these metaphases were karyotyped by G—banding. The modal
chromosome number was 46, and the cells appeared to have a normal

 

karyotype. These normal results may reflect an overgrowth of normal
interstitial tissue rather than tumor.
Procedures/Addenda

Addendum

Addendum Diagnosis
The cytogenetic analysis (_ reveals a normal. karyotype.

The histomorphology is that of an atypical oncocytoma, however, foci of
the tumor are strongly positive for colloidal iron, and many cells are
positive for CK'l. Thus, an oncocytic neoplasm with low malignant
potential is favored, which is a borderline neoplasm between oncocytoma
and chromophobe carcinoma.

 

