UUID: 2D5F749F-4DBS-4CDE-9EA2-1FB‘E3C894AeCd
TCGA— EM- A4FH- 01A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIII||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIed
IIHIH IIIIII IIIIIIII IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH IIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

III
III”"'
LABORATORY MEDICINE PRL

DE '5‘!

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

* Addended *
PatientName: - I .. , ,.._ . Accession'il; I I *1
MRN: . -arvice: 1" ° “ Collected:
DOB; r Visitil: _ Received: a
Gender. Location: ‘ - Reported:
HCN: Facility: --='
Ordering MD. ri—I-I‘
CopyTo: i

 

Smimenie) Received
1. Thyroid: Right Hemithyroidectomyancllsthmue)
2. Skin- anten'or neck

3. soﬂ tissue mass right anterior chest

 

Diagnosis

1. Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant. 4.7 cm. and papillary microcarcinoma. 0.2 cm: Thyroid, right hemiihyroidectomy
specimen

2. irritated and inflamed seborrheic keratosis: Skin (anterior neck) biopsy

3. Spindle cell lesion: Soft tissue (right anterior chest) excisional biopsy See Comment

Comment ‘
3. The spindle cell lesion of the anterior chest wall will be reported by after special studies are
completed. '

Synoptic Data

Procedure: Right hemithyroidectomy
Received: Fresh I C I) ’ 0 ’3 .,
Specimen Integrity: intact r . i .
Specimen Size: Right lobe: Wm. P61) I II WI. WM” “WI”!-
6.1 cm 6 3 1/6 / 1
3:; 3m] -M,¢,,r,~u 073.9
Isthmus +l- pyramidal lobe: (w
2. 6 cm :4 :7
1.2 cm ’0/
1.0 cm
Specimen Weight: 24 9
Tumor Focaliiy: Multifocai, ipsilateral
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR-----u-—————~
Tumor Laterallty: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.7crn

Additional dimension: 3.5 cm
Additional dimension: 1.7 cm

 

m Page1ota'

Ii

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant ) 9‘4 9, (m, 1’?!
Follicular architecture ’
Classical cytomorphoiogy

Histologic Grade: Not applicable _

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Present, extent minimal

Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural Invasions . Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension; Not identiﬁed

--------------- SECOND TUMOR----~------~—

Tumor Laterality: ., Right lobe

Tumor Size: " M "
Histologio Type; , ,3...

Histologic Grade:
Margins:
Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perinaural Invasion:
Extramwoidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Greatest dimensignz, 0.20m

,<.i '

Papillary carcrn‘oma, follicularyariant ' .. .. t. ,
Papillary carcinoma, micromjnoma (occult, small or microsecpic) variant
Papillary carcinoma, onco'c'ytic or oxyphiiic variant
Follicular architecture ,
Gnoccytic or oxyphilic cytomorphology . a... 1
Not applicable .- . .,.... >
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Partially encapsulated
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
m (multiple primary tumors)
pTS: Tumor more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid or with minimal" extrathyroidal extension
(eg, extension to stemothyroid muscle or perithyroid soft tissues)
pNX: Regional lymph n‘ddes cannot be assigned
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 0
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Not applicable
None Identiﬁed

 

*Pathoiogic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Clinical Histogy

STITCH MARKS UPPER POLE

Gro_sg Description
1. The Specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Thyroid: Right hemithyroidectomy (including isthmus)" consists

of a right hemithyroidectomy specimen that is oriented with a suture and weighs 24.0 g. The lobe measures 6.1 cm SI x
3.6 cm ML x 1.8 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.6 SI x 1.2 cm ML x 1.0 cm AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous
adhesions. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly. The external. surface is painted with Siiver
nitrate. The upper mid to lower pole of the lobe contains a well delineated nodule that measures 4.7 cm SI x 3.5 cm ML x
1.7 cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of nodule and normal tissue are stored frozen.
The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

1A—I
1J-L

lobe, superior to inferior

isthmus

Electronically veriﬁed by:

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Skin: Anterior neck" consists of a fragment of pink-tan tissue
measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.

 

W

“- Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ~

2A submitted in

 

3. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s‘ name and as "Soft tissue mass right anterior chest" consists of a piece of red-
yellow soft tissue that measures 2.8 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm and weighs 6.9 9 received in 10% buffered formalin. On sectioning,
there is a well-circumscribed nodule within the soft tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm.

3A‘D serially sec’a‘oned and submitted in

Addendum Status: Signed 'Out
Date Reported?”

..r

Addendum Diagnosis
3. Soft tissue (right anterior chest), excisional biopsy:

- Intravascular fasciitis —- please see Addendum Comment

Addendum (:0me

Sections examined show a well-circumscribed, encapsulated lesion within the skeletal muscle of this excisional biopsy.
The capsule shows areas of entrapped smooth muscle ﬁbres, reminiscent of a large muscular vessel. The intravascuiar
lesion is heterogenous with multiple lobules of variable cellularity. There is palisading of the hypercellular areas around
central areas of pauci-cellulaﬁty. Some of the central areas show ﬁbrin collections. At the periphery of the lesion, there
are many anastomosing thin-walled vessels surrounded by a myxoid spindle-cell proliferation with tissueuculture pattern.
There is extensive mixed inflammation throughout the lesion including predominantly small lymphocytes and plasma cells.
The spindle cells are bland with dispersed chromatin. Occasional multinucleated cells are noted. Throughout the, lesion,
there are only rare mitotic ﬁgures (<1 per 10 HPF). A previous scar with hemosiderin deposition and reparative changes
is present, consistent with previous biopsy procedure. Movat pentachrome stain highlights the remnant large vessel and
the myxoid change within the lesion. ‘

On immunohistochemistry, the cells are positive for SMA and negative for caldesmon, desmin, and CD34. hows
focal areas with some entrapped positive spindle cells but is negative in the main spindle cell population. PGP 9.5 shows
weak nuclear and cytoplasmic staining of scattered spindle cells. -

The overall morphology is consistent with intravascular fasciitis, which is considered a variant of nodular fasciitis. The
lesion is completely excised in the plane of sections examined.

 

  
 
 
 

‘ Diagnosis
_Prim.ir'v TumcISlte Discrepancy

lliPAA Distrnpancy
.._F.___t_.._

    
 

 

\rX

 
 
 

(as: is

  

.2 . Page3of3

 

