 

UUID: 4BBDBCEB- 2593- 44F7- A1E4- C4D6CCDRE584Bac mhé/B
TCGA- P3-A6T6-01A- PR

‘ udll
'willllama.iisll:militia?l"" WW
Bulb m M W

CASE: RECEIVED: £03 7
CLINICAL DATA: Q40 9/9/l3
Maxillary cancer. Per patient is a history of squamous cell

carcinoma of the maxilla.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A) Received fresh in a container labeled "m for intraoperative
consultation" designated "right buccal margin" is a 2 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm portion
of pink- -tan soft tissue. The specimen is inked blue. The specimen is
bisected and then submitted entirely for frozen section, and following frozen
section evaluation, the residue is submitted entirely in cassette AFSl.

B) Received fresh in a container labeled "m", designated "right

maxillary tumor" is a 5.6 cm ML x 4. 2 cm AP X 3. 6 cm SI portion of maxillary
bone, hard and soft palate, floor of ethmoid sinus, and single tooth. The
anterior soft tissue and bony margin is inked blue, the lateral bone and soft
tissue margin is inked black, the posterior soft tissue and bone margin is
inked orange, and the medial soft tissue margin is inked green. The mucosa
of the palate is tan— pink and focally hemorrhagic with a focal area (2.1 x
2.0 cm) that is granular and has an irregular appearance with dark brown
discoloration. Margins are taken for the anterior, lateral, medial, and
posterior soft tissue margins, and then the specimen is serially sectioned
from medial to lateral to reveal a 2. 0 x 2. l x 2. 6 cm, white, firm, ill—
defined mass that is eroded through the maxillary bone. After serial
sections through the mass are taken, the remaining specimen consists of two
thin bones, and a tooth. Cassette list: Bl — anterior soft tissue margin;
82 — lateral soft tissue margin; B3 - posterior soft tissue margin; B4 —
medial soft tissue margin; B5 - posterior portion of the mass; 86 —
representative section through the mass; B7 — additional representative
section through the mass; B8 - additional section through the mass. The bony
anterior, posterior, and lateral margins are submitted for decalcification
prior to further processing, and then submitted in cassettes BB-BlO.

C) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, deep margin" are
fragments of dark red soft tissue admixed with fragments of bone measuring
4.5 X 1.5 x 1 cm in aggregate dimension. Representative sections of soft

tissue are submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in
block CFSl.
D) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, posterior margin"

are 2 dark red fragments of soft tissue measuring 1.5 x l x 0.2 cm in
aggregate dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen
section residue is submitted in block DFSl.

E) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, lingual nerve" is a
0.5 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with blue ink and entirely
submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in block

F) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, superior margin" is
a 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with blue ink
and entirelv submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in
block

G) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, lateral margin" is
a 0.8 x 0.5 X 0.1 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with black
ink and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted
in block

H) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, anterior margin" is
a 0.6 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with orange

ink and entirelv submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted
in block

I) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, deep margin" is a
0.5 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with blue ink

and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in
block

J) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, medial margin" is a
1.2 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with black ink and entirely
submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in block

K) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, posterior deep
margin" is a 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked
with black ink and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is
submitted in block

L) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, deep medial

margin" is a l X 0.6 X 0.1 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with
orange ink and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is
submitted in block

M) Received in a container of formalin labeled "m, right maxillary
mucosa" are multiple hemorrhagic, rubbery fragments of soft tissue admixed
with a portion of cartilage. Specimen measures 2 X 2 x 0.5 cm in aggregate

dimension. Soft tissue minus the cartilage is entirely submitted in cassette
Ml.

N) Received in a container of formalin labeled "m, tooth #5" is a 2.2 x 0.6
x 0.2 cm premolar designated as "#5." There is silver amalgam on the

lateral side of the crown. No soft tissue is received. Specimen is reviewed
by Dr. Gross only.

0) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, new medial

mucosa margin" is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is
marked with black ink and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section
residue is submitted in block

P) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, new superior
margin" is a l X 0.3 X 0.3 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with
blue ink and entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is
submitted in block

Q) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled "m, new deep margin" is
a 0.6 cm tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with black ink and
entirely submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in block

R) Received fresh in a container for frozen labeled ”m, palate" is a 0.6 cm
tan, irregular soft tissue which is marked with blue ink and entirely

 

 

 

submitted for frozen. Frozen section residue is submitted in block

8) Received in a container of formalin labeled "m, repeat medial
resection" are a few variegated, hemorrhagic, rubbery portions of soft tissue
measuring 2.6 x 2 X 0.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are congested,
friable cut surfaces. No obvious masses are identified. Specimen is
entirely submitted in 2 cassettes.

T) Received in a container of formalin labeled "m, medial maxillary

wall" is a 2 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm tan, firm, irregular fragment of cartilage with a
scant amount of attached apparent bone. Specimen is sectioned and has dark
red cut surfaces and no masses are appreciated. The specimen is entirely
submitted in cassette T1 following decalcification.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

AFS) No carcinoma identified (cautery artifact present)
CFS) Deep margin positive for carcinoma

DFS) Posterior margin positive for carcinoma

EFS) Lingual nerve positive for carcinoma

FFS) Superior margin positive for carcinoma; bone involved
GFS) Lateral margin negative

HFS) Anterior margin negative

IFS) Deep lateral margin negative

JFS) Medial margin positive for carcinoma

KFS) Posterior deep margin positive for carcinoma

LFS) Deep medial margin negative

OFS) New medial mucosal margin negative

PFS) New superior margin negative ‘

QFS) New deep margin negative

RFS) Palate negative

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A) Right buccal margin, excision: Squamous mucosa with no evidence of in
situ or invasive carcinoma.

B) Right maxillary tumor, maxillectomy: Poorly differentiated invasive
squamous cell carcinoma with the following features:
1. 2.6 cm.

2. Extent: Carcinoma erodes through the maxillary bone.
3. Margins: ‘
a. Carcinoma involves the orange—inked posterior specimen margin, the

green—inked medial specimen margin and the black—inked lateral specimen soft
tissue margins; see comment.

b. The anterior soft tissue margin is negative for carcinoma.

c. Carcinoma involves the medial maxillary bone margin (hard palate);
anterior maxillary bone margin and bones

of the maxillary sinus are negative for carcinoma.

4. Extensive lymphovascular invasion is identified.
5. Focal perineural invasion is present.
6. The minimum pathologic stage is pT4a,pNx,pr (AJCC,2002, 6th edition).

C,D,E,F,J,K) Mucosa, sites as designated, biopsies: Multiple designated
margins positive for poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma,
including:

1. Deep margin.

Posterior margin.

. Lingual nerve.
Superior margin.
Medial margin.
Posterior deep margin.

ONU‘InbLAJN

G, H, I, L, M, O, P, Q- T) Mucosa, sites as designated, biopsies. Multiple
designated mucosal margins with no evidence of in situ or invasive carcinoma,
including:

1. Lateral margin.

Anterior margin.

Deep lateral margin.

Deep medial margin.

Right maxillary mucosa.

New medial mucosal margin

New superior margin.

New deep margin.

9. Palate.

10. Repeat medial resection.

11. Medial maxillary wall.

.

msJChU‘lstJN

N) Tooth #5, extraction (gross only): Tooth with silver amalgam and no
gross diagnostic alterations.

COMMENT:

Evaluation of the maxillectomy specimen (B) was supplemented by
intraoperative evaluation of multiple surgical margins by frozen section
Although several specimen margins are positive (see above), final surgical
margins should be based on a correlation of all examined specimens in the
surgical context.

Procedures used to establish the diagnosis:
Routine

  
    

  
 

Diagnnsh Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site DASCVEpirICV
HAPAA DMCIEpBHCY
Wiar Malignancy Hutu

a”

  

 

'
%‘J‘ ﬁgs—fig;

     

 

 

Dual/Synchronnu' ‘13”-

     
      
 

