 

ice.~ a. 3,
CW mow, N05 2130/3 alga/,0

3.1g, cw: 5ItMu, Nos CW9

----- SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med. Rm- ﬂ- Date of Procedure:

DOB: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: F Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: " Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: iNPATlENT

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8. History:

Bladder cancer T2 disease.

Specimens §ubmltted:

1: SP: Bladder. urethra. uterus, ovaries. fallopian tubes. perivesicle nodes and anterior vaginal wall; radical cystectomy, total
hysterectomy with bilateral saipingo-oophorectomy

2: SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection

3: SP: Lymph nodes: left pelvic; dissection

4: SP: Ureter, distal, right; resection

5: SP: Ureter, right; resection

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. SP: Bladder, urethra, uterus, ovaries. fallopian tubes, periveslcle nodes and anterior vaginal wall; radical cystectomy,
total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma. NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-invasive component:
Flat (in situ carcinoma)

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
lnﬁltrating

Tumor Multicentricity:
Identiﬁed

Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesicai soft tissues

Extravesicai Tumor Extension:
Right ureter uninvolved
Left ureter uninvolved

Urethra “"'"V°'Ved uum: ss'mm- -6ADF- 46A: eraz- Aimzezssnezd

TCGA- DK- A1AF- 01A- PR

Vascular invasion:
Identified Illllillllllllllllllilllillillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllelldllllcllled
Ill ll|l|||ll Ill l|ll|lll|||ll|llll||ll|li|||||lll|ll|||||||l|||lll
Permeu'a' "was“ ill lllllli | illllllllllillllllll lllllllllllillll | Hill ll l|l

Not identified

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

    
 
    

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:

Page 1 of 5

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Exhibiting ulceration
0 Exhibiting foreign body reaction

Female Genital Organs:
Show no pathologic abnormalities

Perivesicai Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

 

2. SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 6
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.1cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.5 cm.
Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

3. SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 8
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 3
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 12cm.
. Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.2 cm.
Extranodal extension is identified

 

4. Ureter. distal. right; resection:
- Partially denuded urothelium with mild to moderate urothelial atypia

5. SP: Ureter. right; resection:
- Segment of benign ureter

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

"* Report Electronically Signed Out *"

 

Special Studies:
Result Speci al Stain Comment
RECUT

Gross Description:

1. The specimen is received fresh labeled, " Bladder. uterus, cervix. urethra. bilateral tubes and ovaries. anterior vaginal wall,
perivesical lymph nodes". It consists of a cystohysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen measuring 20 cm
from superior to inferior. 10 cm laterally and 5.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The uterus measures 6.5 cm superior to inferior, 5.5
cm from cornu to cornu, and 3.0 from anterior to posterior. There is a subserosai calciﬁed nodule at the fundus of the uterus
measuring 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The right ovary measures 2.3 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. There is an adherent clear thin walled cyst
a measuring 4.2 x 3.8 x 2.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 7 cm in length with a normal ﬁmbriated end and a pinpoint lumen.

 

Page 2 of 5

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

The left ovary measures 2.5 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. The left fallopian tube measures 7.5 cm in length with a normal ﬁmbriated end and a
pinpoint lumen. The right aspect of the bladder is inked green and the left aspect of bladder is inked blue. The uterus is inked
black posteriorly. The cervix measures 2 cm in length. The ectocervix measures 4.5 cm in diameter. The bladder is opened along
the anterior midline to reveal an oval. ulcerated, fungating lesion measuring 2.0 x 1.5 cm in the trigone area and the posterior wall.
The lesion appears to be involving the both ureteral oriﬁces. Both ureters are probed and appear blocked. The lesion is sectioned
and revealed that the lesion is invading deeply into the muscularis layer. Extension to the inked fat is grossly not identiﬁed. The
remaining bladder mucosa is pink and edematous. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are grossly not identiﬁed. The entire lesion is
submitted and the representative sections from the rest of the bladder are submitted. TPS is submitted. Photographs are taken.

Summary of sections:
RUM - right ureter margin
LUM ~ left ureter margin
UTHM - urethral margin

L — lesion

LUO — left ureter oriﬁce
RUO - right ureter oriﬁce
LP - left posterior wall

LA - left anterior wall

RP - right posterior wall
RA - right anterior wall
DOM - dome

F - perivesical fat

AC — anterior cervix

PC - posterior cervix
AEM - anterior endometrium
PEM — posterior endometrium
RO - right ovary and cyst
RT — right tube

LO - left ovary

LT - left tube

VCM — vaginal cuff margin

2.) The specimen is received in forrnaiin. labeled "Right pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of a 3.8 x 3.0 x 1 .0 cm aggregate of
lobulated. focally hemorrhagic, yellow adipose. which is sectioned to reveal seven. ﬁrm. tan-pink lymph nodes. ranging from 0.3 to
2.2 cm, in greatest dimension. The larger lymph nodes are bisected and all lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes
BLN — bisected lymph nodes

3.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of a 5.3 x 3.8 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
lobulated. focally hemorrhagic. yellow adipose. which is sectioned to reveal nine. ﬁrm. tan-pink lymph nodes, ranging from 0.3 to
2.0 cm. in greatest dimension. The larger lymph nodes are bisected and all lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

4.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Right distal ureter" and consists of an unoriented, 0.3 cm length and 0.6 cm in
diameter portion of ureter, which is submitted in toto.

Summary of sections:
RDU - right distal ureter

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

5.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Right ureter, clip and is proximal margin" and consists of an oriented. 2.3 cm in
length and 0.4 cm in diameter portion of ureter surrounded by a 0.4 cm thick adipose tissue. A clip marks the proximal margin.
which is inked in blue and the opposite margin is inked in black. The specimen is serially sectioned from the proximal margin to the
opposite margin and is entirely submitted in sequential order.

Summary of sections:
PM - proximal margin
SS — sequential sections
OM — opposite margin

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Bladder, urethra. uterus. ovaries, fallopian tubes, perivesicle nodes and anterior vaginal wall; radical
cystectomy, total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
AC
AEM
DOM

1
1
1
5
1
1
1
1
1
1 PC
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

AAA—LA—I—I—l-I—A—I—k—l—JJJUIA—lJ—L

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 BLN 6
1 LN 4

Part 3: SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
7 BLN 14
1 LN 2

Part 4: SP: Ureter, distal, right; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 R DU 1

Part 5: SP: Ureter, right; resection

 

Page 4 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

3 Block Sect. Site PCs
1 OM 1
1 PM 1
1 SS 3

   
   
   

Criteria
Dialnosis Discrepach
Primary Tumor Sité Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy

Prior Mali nancy History
Dual/Synchronous Primary Noted
can is (circle): . '
eviewer Initials

 
 

 
  
  
   
  
 

 

Page 5 of 5 END OF REPORT

