SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

  

Accession number: - Final Report

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1-11) SKIN, NERVE, TONGUE AND ORAL MUCOSA, VARIOUS SITES AS LISTED, BIOPSY:
NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY AT EACH SITE.

12) LYMPH NODES, LEVEL 1A, DISSECTION: TWO LYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR
MALIGNANCY (0/2).

13) LYMPH NODES, LEVEL 2, DISSECTION: 10 LYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR
MALIGNANCY (0/10).

14) LYMPH NODES, LEVEL 3, DISSECTION: 13 LYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR
MALIGNANCY (0/ 13).

15) LYMPH NODES, LEVEL 4, DISSECTION: EIGHT LYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR
MALIGNANCY (0/8).

16) TONGUE, JAW, FACIAL SKIN, BUCCAL MUCOSA, EXCISION: INVASIVE SQUAMOUS

CELL CARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, 4.2 CM IN GREATEST EXTENT, WITH
INVASION INTO MANDIBLE; SURGICAL MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY, CLOSEST
MARGIN POSTERIOR AND MEDIAL 0.3 CM; SUBMANDIBULAR GLAND WITH NO SIGNIFICANT
HISTOPATHOLOGIC CHANGE; TWO LYMPH NODES INVOLVED BY SQUAMOUS CELL
CARCINOMA. (SEE COMMENT).

COMMENT: These findings correspond to AI CC stage p4a (pT4a,pN2,erMa)

Upper Aerodigestive Tract and Minor Salivary Glands Carcinoma
Summary of Findings:
Incisional and Excisional Biopsy, Resection

Note: Check 1 response unless otherwise indicated.

MACROSCOPIC

Specimen Type
_ Incisional biopsy

_ Excisional biopsy

X Resection (specify type): composite resection of tongue, jaw, neck,
ﬂoor of mouth.

_ Other (specify):

 

_ Not specified

Tumor Site (check all that apply)
_ Lip

X Oral cavity

_ PharynX, oropharynX

_ PharynX, hypopharynX

_ PharynX, nasopharynX

_ Larynx, supraglottis

_ Larynx, glottis

_ Larynx, subglottis

_ Paranasal sinus(es), maxillary
_ Paranasal sinus(es), ethmoid
_ Other (specify):
_ Not specified

 

Tumor Size

Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm

*Additional dimensions: 3.5 X 0.8 cm

_ Cannot be determined (see Comment)

MICROSCOPIC

Histologic Type

Carcinomas of the Upper Aerodigestive Tract
X Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional

Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Variant
_ Verrucous carcinoma

_ Spindle cell squamous carcinoma
_ Adenosquamous carcinoma

_ Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma
_ Papillary squamous cell carcinoma

_ Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (non-nasopharyngeal)

Sinonasal Carcinoma

_ Keratinizing sinonasal carcinoma

_ Non-keratinizing sinonasal carcinoma (Transitional type)
_ Sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (SNUC)

Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma

_ Keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma

_ Non-keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma

_ Non-keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma, differentiated

_ Non-keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma, undifferentiated
(lymphoepithelioma)

_ Non-keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma, mixed differentiated and
undifferentiated

_ Adenocarcinoma, salivary gland type (specify type):

 

Adenocarcinoma, Non-salivary Gland Type

_ Papillary adenocarcinoma

_ Intestinal-type adenocarcinoma

_ Adenocarcinoma not otherwise specified (NOS), low grade
_ Adenocarcinoma NOS, intermediate grade

_ Adenocarcinoma NOS, high grade

Neuroendocrine carcinoma

_ Typical carcinoid tumor (well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma)
_ Atypical carcinoid tumor (moderately differentiated neuroendocrine
carcinoma)

_ Small cell carcinoma (poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma)

 

_ Other (specify):
_ Carcinoma, type cannot be determined

Histologic Grade
_ Not applicable
_ GX: Cannot be assessed

_ G1: Well differentiated

X G2: Moderately differentiated
_ G3: Poorly differentiated
_ Other (specify):

 

Pathologic Staging (pT NM) (see appropriate site below)

Note: The phrases in italics include clinical findings required for A] CC
staging. This clinical information may be unknown to the pathologist. It is
included here only for the sake of completeness.

Primary Tumor (pT): Oropharynx

_ pT X: Cannot be assessed

_ pT0: No evidence of primary tumor

_ pT is: Carcinoma in situ

_ pT 1: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest dimension

_ pT 2: Tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest
dimension

_ pT 3: Tumor more than 4 cm in greatest dimension

X pT 4a: Tumor invades larynx, deep/extrinsic muscle of tongue, medial
pterygoid muscles, hard palate, or mandible

_ pT 4b: Tumor invades lateral pterygoid muscle, pterygoid plates,
lateral nasopharynx, or skull base, or encases carotid artery

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): All Aerodigestive Sites Except Nasopharynx
_ pNX: Cannot be assessed

_ pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis

_ le: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node, 3 cm or less in
greatest dimension

_ pN2a: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node, more than 3 cm
but not more than 6 cm in greatest dimension

X pN2b: Metastasis in multiple ipsilateral lymph nodes, none more than
6 cm in greatest dimension

_ pN2c: Metastasis in bilateral or contralateral lymph nodes, none

more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
_ pN3: Metastasis in a lymph node more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
Specify: Number examined: 35

Number involved: 2

*Extra-capsular Extension of Nodal Tumor
* X Absent

*_ Present

*_ Indeterminate

Distant Metastasis (pM)

X pMX: Cannot be assessed

_ le: Distant metastasis
*Specify site(s), if known:

 

Margins (check all that apply)
_ Cannot be assessed
X Margins uninvolved by tumor
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 3 mm
Specify margin, if possible: posterior and medial
X Carcinoma in situ absent
_ Carcinoma in situ present
_ Carcinoma in situ, not applicable
_ Margin(s) involved by tumor
Specify margins(s), if possible:
_ Not applicable

 

*Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L)
* X Absent

*_ Present

*_ Indeterminate

Perineural Invasion
X Absent
_ Present

*Additional Pathologic Findings (check all that apply)
*_ None identified

_ Carcinoma in situ

_ Inﬂammation (specify type):
_ Epithelial hyperplasia

_ Epithelial dysplasia

_ Other (specify):

 

9999999999

 

*Comment(s)

Data elements with asterisks are not required for accreditation purposes

for the Commission on Cancer. These elements may be clinically important,
but are not yet validated or regularly used in patient management.
Alternatively, the necessary data may not be available to the pathologist

at the time of pathologic assessment of this specimen

**Electronically Signed Out by —**

 

CLINICAL DATA

Clinical Features: received on towel with orientation to
superior

Operator: _

Operation: Unspec1 1ed

Operative Findings: Unspecified

Operative Diagnosis: Unspecified

Tissue Submitted: 1) anterior inferior skin margin, 2)
anterior superior skin margin, 3)
posterior inferior skin margin, 4)
posterior superior skin margin, 5)
lingual nerve, 6) ﬂoor of mouth, mucosal
margin, 7) ventral tongue, mucosal
margin, 8) retromolar trigone mucosal
margin, 9) soft palate mucosal margin,
10) buccal mucosal margin, 11) lip mucosa
margin, 12) level A1 neck dissection, 13)
left neck level 2, 14) left neck level 3,
15) left neck level 4, l6) tongue, jaw,
level 1B, facial skin and mucosal margin

INSTRUCTIONS TO PATHOLOGIST: High risk HPV ISH and P16 IHC on permanent
section.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
1) SOURCE: Anterior Inferior Skin Margin

Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient's name is a single
portion of skin measuring 7.0 x 0.1 cm and excised to a depth of 0.3 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis, following
inking for orientation: blue at superior or black at inferior.

Summary of sections: lAFSC, 1/1.

2) SOURCE: Anterior Superior Skin Margin

Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient's name is a single
portion of skin measuring 5.0 x 0.1 cm and excised to a depth of 0.2 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis, following
inking for orientation: blue at superior or black at inferior.

Summary of sections: 2AFSC, 1/1.

3) SOURCE: Posterior Inferior Skin Margin

Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient's name is a single
portion of skin measuring 4.6 x 0.2 cm and excised to a depth of 0.3 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis, following
inking for orientation: blue at superior or black at inferior.

Summary of sections: 3AFSC, l/l.

4) SOURCE: Posterior Superior Skin Margin

Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient's name is a single
portion of skin measuring 5.2 x 0.2 cm and excised to a depth of 0.3 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis, following
inking for orientation: blue at superior or black at inferior.

Summary of sections: 4AFSC, 1/1.

5) SOURCE: Lingual Nerve

The specimen labeled "lingual nerve" is received fresh for intraoperative
consultation and consists of a 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm segment of ﬂat, tan to
yellow tissue. The specimen is submitted en entirety for frozen section
analysis.

Summary of sections: 5AFSC, lingual nerve, l/ 1.

6) SOURCE: Floor of Mouth Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "ﬂoor of mouth mucosal margin" is received fresh for
intraoperative consultation and consists of a ﬂat segment of tan to red
tissue measuring 2.6 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm segment. The sample is received with a
mark denoting the inferior portion of the sample. This area is marked in
black. The sample is received on a cloth towel. The specimen is submitted
in entirety for frozen section analysis.Summary of sections: 6AFSC, 1/1.

7) SOURCE: Ventral Tongue Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "ventral tongue mucosal margin" is received fresh for
intraoperative consultation on a cloth towel and consists of a ﬂat, tan
segment of tissue measuring 3.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm segment. The specimen is
received with a mark denoting the inferior portion of the sample. This area
is inked black. The specimen is submited in entirety for frozen section
analysis. A portion of the specimen was destroyed during frozen section
processing. The remainder of the specimen is submitted for permanent
section.

Summary of sections: 7AFSC, 1/1.

8) SOURCE: Retromolar T rigone Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "retromolar trigone mucosal margin" is received fresh
for intraoperative consultation and consists of a ﬂat tan segment of

tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is received on a cloth
towel. The sample is received with a mark denoting the inferior aspect.

This portion of the specimen is inked in black. The sample is submitted in
entirety for frozen section analysis.Summary of sections: 8AFSC, retromolar
trigone mucosal margin, 1/ 1.

9) SOURCE: Soft Palate Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "soft palate mucosal margin" is received fresh for
intraoperative consultation on a cloth towel and consists of a ﬂat section
of tan to pink tissue measuring 1.8 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is
received with a mark denoting the inferior aspect of the specimen; this
portion is inked in blue. The specimen is submitted in entirety for frozen

section analysis.Summary of sections: 9AFSC, soft palate mucosal margin,
1/ 1.

10) SOURCE: Buccal Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "buccal mucosal margin" is received fresh for
intraoperative consultation on a cloth towel. The specimen measures 5.7 x
0.3 x 0.2 cm segment. The sample is received with a mark denoting the
inferior portion of the sample; this portion of the specimen is inked in
blue. The specimen is submitted in entirety for frozen section
analysis.Summary of sections: 10AFSC, 1/ 1.

11) SOURCE: Lip Mucosal Margin

The specimen labeled "lip mucosal margin" is received fresh on a cloth
towel and consists of a segment of tan ﬂat tissue measuring 3.8 x 0.2 x
0.2 cm segment. The sample is received with a mark denoting the inferior
aspect of the sample; this area is inked in blue. The opposite end of the
specimen has a focal black discoloration. The specimen is submitted in
entirety for frozen section analysis.Summary of sections: 11AFSC, lip
mucosa margin, 2/1 (sample separated during frozen section processing).

12) SOURCE: Level 1A Neck Dissection

The specimen labeled "level 1A neck dissection" is received fresh and
consists of a 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm portion of lobulated fibroadipose tissue

with two palpable lymph node candidates. The first is removed from the
specimen that measures 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. A second larger candidate lymph
node is palpated measuring 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The remainder of the
specimen is lobulated fibroadipose tissue. The specimen is submitted in
entirety.Summary of sections: 12A, small candidate lymph node, 1; 12B,
larger candidate lymph node #1, 1/ 1; 12C, remainder of tissue, 3/ 1.

13) SOURCE: Left Neck Level 2

The specimen labeled "left neck level 2" is received fresh and consists of

a segment of lobulated fibroadipose tissue with candidate lymph nodes
measuring 5.5 x 4.7 x 0.3 cm. The sample is examined revealing multiple
candidate lymph nodes, the largest of which measures 3.1 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm.
All candidate lymph nodes are submitted in entirety.Summary of sections:
13A, four distinct candidate lymph nodes, 4/ 1; 13B, two distinct candidate
lymph nodes, 2/ 1; 13C-13D, sections of largest candidate lymph node, 13C,
4/ 1, 13D, 3/ 1; 13E, additional candidate lymph nodes (two) with
representative sections of lobulated fibroadipose tissue.

14) SOURCE: Left Neck Level 3

The specimen labeled "left neck level 3" is received fresh and consists of

a segment of lobulated fibroadipose tissue with candidate lymph nodes
measuring 6.3 x 4.3 x 0.3 cm. Numerous small candidate lymph nodes are
identified, the largest of which measures 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.2. The majority of
the specimen is submitted.Summary of sections: 14A-14C, candidate lymph
nodes, 4/1 each; 14D, candidate lymph nodes with fibroadipose tissue, 4/ 1;
14E, representative section of fibroadipose tissue with possible lymph

nodes, 1/1.
15) SOURCE: Left Neck Level 4

The specimen labeled "left neck level 4" is received fresh and consists of

a 6.0 x 4.5 x 0.3 cm segment of lobulated fibroadipose tissue with

candidate lymph nodes. The largest identifiable candidate lymph node is 1.0
x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Only one distinct candidate lymph node is identified. The
specimen is submitted in entiretySummary of sections: 15A, candidate lymph
nodes, 3/1; 15B-E, remainder of tissue, 15B, 2/1, 15C, 1/1, 15D, 2/1, 15E,

3/ 1.

16) SOURCE: Tongue, Jaw, Level 1B, Facial Skin and Buccal Mucosa

The specimen labeled "tongue, jaw, level 1B facial skin and buccal mucosa"
is received fresh and consists of an 8.0 cm from anterior to posterior, 7.0
cm from superior to inferior and 5.0 cm from medial to lateral resection
including mandible, skin, salivary gland and buccal mucosa. Within the
buccal mucosa, there is an ill-defined necrotic, red-tan ulcerating mass,

4.2 x 3.5 x 0.8 cm. Along the superficial surface of the specimen, there is

an attached 6.5 x 5.5 cm roughly ovoid excision of tan wrinkled skin. The
specimen is marked with inked as follows: anterior-orange; posterior-black;
medial-red; lateral-blue; superior-yellow; and inferior- green. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing the lesion to extend through the mandible
towards the anterior skin surface, with a maximum of the tumor 2.8 cm. The
lesion extends into the dermis and is 0.3 cm from the skin surface. Within
the inferior aspect of the mandible, just overlying the salivary gland,

there is a 1.8 cm in greatest dimension grossly positive lymph node
candidate. Sectioning through the salivary gland reveals a normal lobulated
surface with no discrete, grossly suspicious lesions identified. The lesion
also extends into the muscular tissue and lies 0.5 cm from the red medial
margin. The lesion is 0.7 cm from the anterior margin, 0.9 cm from the
posterior margin, 1.2 cm from the blue inked lateral margin and greater

than 3.0 cm from the nearest green inferior margin. No additional lymph

node candidates are identified. Re resentative sections are submitted. A
portion of tumor is submitted” and placed in
glutaraldehyde and within the - reezer on 0 or possible future
studies.

Summary of sections: 16A, buccal mucosa and lesion upon approach to
superior and anterior margins, 1/ 1; 16B, lesion and muscular tissue upon
approach to medial and posterior margins, 2/ 1; 16C, nearest superior
margin, 1/ 1; 16D, nearest medial margin, 2/ 1; 16E, salivary gland and
portion of lymph node candidate, 1/ 1; 16F, skin upon approach to blue inked
lateral margin, 1/ 1; 16G, skin and lesion upon approach to posterior
margin, 1/ 1; 16H, lesion and skin upon approach to anterior margin, 1/ 1;
161, lesion and vessel mucosa upon approach to superior margin, 1/ 1; 16],
lesion with posterior and superior margin, 1/ 1; 16K, positive lymph node
candidate and salivary gland, 1/ 1; 16L, additional section of medial margin
with lesion, 1/ 1; 16M, 16M, mandible with surrounding lesion, 1/1 each;
160, anterior bone margin, 1/ 1; 16P, posterior bone margin, bisected, 2/ 1.

Dictated bV

    

1 es and report reviewed by Attending Pathologist.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION
1) SOURCE: Anterior Inferior Skin Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: DYSPLASIA, NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - I
2) SOURCE: Anterior Superior Skin Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - I

3) SOURCE: Posterior Inferior Skin Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - I

4) SOURCE: Posterior Superior Skin Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - I

5) SOURCE: Lingual Nerve

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. .I

6) SOURCE: Floor of Mouth Mucosal Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: KERATOSIS AS DISCUSSED, NEGATIVE FOR HIGH GRADE
DYSPLASIA.

7) SOURCE: Ventral Tongue Mucosal Margin
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. -J
8) SOURCE: Retromolar T rigone Mucosal Margin
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. -
9) SOURCE: Soft Palate Mucosal Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. -
10) SOURCE: Buccal Mucosal Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. -
11) SOURCE: Lip Mucosal Margin

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: BENIGN. -

 

The following special studies were performed on this case and the
interpretation is incorporated in the diagnostic report above:
1xDECALCIFICATION

In some tests, analyte specific reagents (ASRs) are used. In the case of
an ASR, this test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by this laboratory. It has not been cleared or approved by the
US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary. This test is used for clinical
purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of - (CLIA I as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

ADDENDUM FINDINGS:

HPV analysis as performed by“
Reference Laboratories shows the tumor to e P negat1ve y
immunohistochemistry and HPV-16 negative by in-situ hybridization.
Electronically signed by _

Slides and report reviewed by Attending Pathologist

