, .. . UUID:28754343-DA25-4608-A666-B4E41852F6
3,. v’ CGA-GV—A4BG- 1A-PR FF

muumﬁu nu ll nun” Redacted
uumuum il n In i lnui'li'i'li'iii'i'ii'iiiii'i'li'm"""'""

llHllHlllllllHllll llllllllHlllHlﬂlillllllllllllllil "

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

uuu ‘1.-

 

De—ldentiﬁed Specimen Code
i c 0/04

; 1, 05
Patient Age/Sex I carcinoma , WWI a» M ﬁlZo/S
SPECIMEN SUBMITTED: '

- - . 05 , 4
Part A: BLADDER AND PROSTATE SHL. yet-H“ bladder; "I 50,305 0;, a;
Part B: PELVIC LYMPH NODES #1 cc» (5:: L )aéckr, com i l '

Part C: PELVlC LYMPH NODES #2

1 J5 , n a)
Part D: RIGHT DISTAL URETER

Final Diagnosis

1. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (A) - Invasive high grade urotheiiai carcinoma
is identiﬁed involving the previous biopsy site. The tumor focally invades into the muscularis propria.
Associated urotheiiai carcinoma in situ is present.

- Right ureter margin is positive for urotheiiai carcinoma in-situ. Theurethra margin and sgfttissue
margins are negative for tumor.

- The prostatic urethra shows involvement by urotheiiai carcinoma in situ. The prostate parenchyma
shows benign prostatic hyperplasia.

- One lymph node negative for neoplasm (0/1).
— See comment.

2. Pelvic lymph nodes #1, excision (B) - Fifteen lymph nodes negative for neoplasm (0/15).
3. Pelvic lymph nodes #2, excision (C) - Three lymph nodes negative for neoplasm (0/3).

4. Right distal ureter. excision (D) Urotheiial carcinoma in situ is present at the margin.

 

 

Page 1 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:

BLADDER TEMPLATE

Procedure:

Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Size (greatest dimension): 5 cm (including previous biopsy site changes)
Histologic Type: Urotheiial carcinoma

Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed

H istologic grade:

Urotheiial Carcinoma (WHO . ): High-grade

Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma:

GX: Cannot be assessed

Margins:
Margin(s) involved by carcinoma in situ

Specify margin(s): right distal ureter
Venous lymphatic invasion: Absent
Direct extension of invasive tumoerone identiﬁed
Pathologic Stage (TNM); pT_1.pN0 pMX
Number lymph nodes examined: 19
Number lymph nodes involved (any size): 0
Primary Tumor (pT)
pT2a: Tumor invades superﬁcial muscularis propria (inner half).
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Distant Metastasis (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed

Seen in consultation with Dr. Frozen section slides were reviewed on the re-excision of the right
ureter. The cytologic atypia borders on dysplasia and urotheiiai carcinoma in situ. but review of the permanents

favors urotheiiai carcinoma in situ.

Clinical Diagnosis:
BLADDER CANCER
STITCH MARKS MARGiN

 

Page 2 of 4

..... . “EDAMLH

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received already ﬁxed, inked, and opened labeled "bladder and prostate" is a specimen that
consists of urinary bladder, right ureter, prostate, attached seminal vesicles and vas deferens. The right
ureter is probed but there is no probe identifying the left ureter and the left ureter oriﬁce in the trigone
area could not be seen or probed and after dissection a possible 3cm segment of left ureter is seen.
The bladder measures 19 x 11 x 5 cm. The adhered surface of the bladder is covered by a smooth
serosai lining at the dome and ﬁbroadipose tissue at the remaining portion. After the bladder is opened,
a mass measuring 5 x 4 x 1 cm is identiﬁed and is located on the anterior well, right lateral wall. left
lateral wall, posterior wall and the trigone area. The mass is 4 cm from the right ureter margin. 3.5 cm
from the urethral margin, and 3.5 cm from the possible left ureter margin, and appears to invade 1 cm
deep. The mass is principally papillary. On sectioning, the mass extends to roughly 1 cm grossly into
the wall but does not grossly appear to go through the muscularis propria. it does not appear to involve
the perivesicular adipose tissue. The bladder mucosa is erythematous near the urethra. A 4 cm
segment of right ureter and is patent. and the mucosa appears unremarkable. The left ureter was very
difficult to locate as there is no probe within it for ﬁxation and the orﬁce in the trigone area could not be
identiﬁed. A possible 3 cm segment of left ureter is identiﬁed after dissection. its mucosa appears
unremarkable. The prostate measures 4 x 4 x 4 cm cranlocaudally, anteroposteriorly, and transversely.
The apex of the gland is conical. The capsular surface is smooth. On palpation, an area of ﬁrmness is
not identiﬁed. The gland is inked blue on the right, and yellow on the left. After ﬁxation, the gland is
serially sectioned at 3 mm intervals and the cross sections do not reveal a mass lesion. Rubbery ’
nodularity is present. The seminal vesicles appear unremarkable. Representative sections are
submitted as follows: FSA1 urethra, FSA2 suture, FSA3 left vas deferens. FSA4 right vas deferens.
FSA5 right ureter, FSAG left ureter, A8 anterior wall with mass, A9 right trigone area and right ureter
with mass, A10 right lateral with mass, A11 dome, A12 left lateral wall with mass, A13 possible left
ureter distal margin, A14 left trigone area with mass, A15 mass in relation to right seminal vesicle, A16
bladder mucosa near urethra, A17 posterior wall with mass, A18 possible mid left ureter, A19 right mid
ureter. A20-A21 possible lymph nodes, A22 right apex, A23 left apex, A24 3 mm right, A25 3 mm left,
A26 mid prostate right anterior, A27 mid prostate left anterior, A28 mid posterior right posterior, A29
mid prostate left posterior, A30 base of prostate right anterior, A31 base of prostate left anterior, A32
base of prostate right posterior, A33 base of prostate left posterior, A34 right seminal vesicle, A35 iett
seminal vesicle.

B. Received fresh labeled "pelvic lymph nodes #1" are multiple segments of yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue
aggregating to 10 x 5 x 1.5 cm. Palpation reveals 17 yellow ﬁrm nodules ranging in size from 0.5 to 4.0
cm in greatest dimension. The nodules are totally submitted as follows: B1 four nodules, 82 four
nodules, B3 four nodules, B4 two nodules, B5 one nodule, Be nodule, B7 one nodule bisected.

C. Received fresh labeled "pelvic lymph nodes #2" is a segment of yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 7
x 4 x 1 cm. Palpation reveals 3 yellow ﬁrm nodules ranging in size from 3.0 to 5.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The nodules are totally submitted as follows: C1 one nodule, 02-03 one nodule bisected,
04-05 one nodule bisected.

l

D. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation is a specimen labeled "right distal ureter" consisting of
a segment of unoriented ureter, measuring 1.2 cm in length with a clip in place 0.4 cm from one end of

 

Page 3 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

the ureter. The end of the ureter closest to the clip is inked black. The opposing ureter is dilated.

Shaves of both ends of the ureter are submitted for frozen section in cassette FSD1.

 

Page 4 of 4

