 

 

Name?“

Consulting:

/C A C' , 3
Dayan,” LycM'chM-l [Mbmefmiﬁll N“ 5’ Ssh/3|
3m (171:. Z41 1:7qu C544

// 7/”
/w/

DOB: FIN:

MRN:

Visit:
AGE SEX: Female
Attending
Ordering
Copy to:

Surgical Pathology Final

Diagnosis

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovary and fallopian tube; total hysterectomy (198 gms) and bilateral

salpingo-oophorectomy:

Endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma

- FIGO grade III/III

   

- lower uterine segment and cerwx involved

- extensive angiolymphatic invasion present

3.2;: pT3a Tumor involves uterine serosal surface, parametria and bilateral ovaries

~ bilateral fallopian tubes with paratubal cyst (right side); negative for tumor

- left ovary with extensive involvement by tumor

- right ovary with surface involvement by tumor

- 2 lymph nodes positive for tumor (2/3) - Parts C and E.

- omentum negative for tumor - Part G
- minimum pathologic stage pT3a N1 Mx

B. Cul de sac, biopsy:
Positive for tumor.

C. Lymph node, right pelvic. excisional biopsy:
Positive for tumor. (1/1)

D. Lymph node, left pelvic, excisional biopsy:
Negative for tumor.(0/1) '

E. Lymph node, right periaortic, excisional biopsy:

Positive for tumor. (1/1)

F. Submitted as left periaortic lymph node, biopsy:

Mature adipose tissue.

#6].

     

”(a ,

UUID:6F79583A-9034-450F-8542-A63C2F93470D
TCGA-AX-A1C5-01A-PR Rﬁﬁlﬁﬁﬂted

III II
II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II I I IIIII I I|III||| || || IIIIII I II II III

Page 1 of 5

 

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

 

No lymphoid tissue present.
Negative for tumor.

G. Omentum, biopsy:
Negative for tumor

Comment

A: Endometrium, Hysterectomy, Macroscopic
SPECIMEN TYPE: .
Radical hysterectomy (includes parametria)
'TUMOR SITE:
“Specify location(s), if known: uterus
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimension: 9 cm
'Additional dimensions: 6 x 3.2 cm
ER ORGANS PRESENT:
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube

 

A: Endometrium. Hysterectomy, Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, not otherwise characterized
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
GS: More than 50% nonsquamous solid growth
MYOMETRIAL INVASION:
Invasion present
Specify depth of invasion: 22 mm
Specify myometrial thickness: 22 mm
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT3a [IIIA]: Local and/or regional spread as specified In T3a, T3b, and FIGO IIIA and IIIB: Tumor
Involves serosa, parametria, and/or adnexa (direct extension or metastasis
REGIONAL‘LYMPH NODES (pN):
pN1 [lllClz Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 3
Number involved 2
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed

 

Visit:
Page 2 of 5

,. a a. N p.51 ‘
wwmunwﬁm‘lm;€«1w»z;}‘“ :' ., .. i 3%":

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

 

MARGINS: ‘
anOIVed by invasive carcinoma

Specify margin(s): posterior uterine serosal
VENOUS/LYMPHATIC (LARGE/SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (V/L):

*Present
*ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:
*None identified

This case was also reviewed by Dr. who agrees with the above diagnosis.

(Electronic Signature)

 

Clinical History
_Endometrial carcinoma.

Specimen
A) Uterus, bilateral ovaries/fallopian tubes, cervix. B) Pelvic cul-de-sac biopsy. C) Right pelvic lymph node.
D) Left pelvic lymph node. E) Right paraaortic. F) Left paraaortic. G) Omentum.

Gross Description -
The specimens are received fresh in seven containers, each designated with the patient's name

fallopian tube with fimbriae is 2.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The ovary Is tan-gray, 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Bivalving reveals a tan cut surface with normal ovarian architecture present. The right fallopian
tube with ﬁmbriae is 5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The ovary is tan-gray, 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Serially sectioning reveals a tan-gray cut surface.

a
Visit:

Page 3 of 5

 

 

‘ Surgical PathomFinal

Collected Date:
Received Date: ,,- -
Veriﬁed Date:

The uterus with cervix is 198 9, approximately 11.5 x 8.6 x 5.7 cm. The serosa is tan-pink with a moderate
amount of hemorrhagic adhesions. The paracervical/parametrial margin is inked black. The cervix is tan-pink,
3.5 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. Upon bivalving, the endocervical canal is 1.5 cm and the endometrial cavity is entirely
replaced by tan—gray mass extendingand involving the lower uterine cavity, 2.5 cm from the squamocolumnar
junction. Sectioning the anterior endometrium/myometrium and mass, the mass is 1.2 cm in thickness, it
involves 50% of the myometrium, 1.2 cm from the serosa. Sectioning the posterior endometrium/myometrium
and mass, the mass extends to and there is serosal involvement, the mass is approximately 3.2 cm In depth.
There also appears to be parametrial involvement (black ink). Tissue was taken according to the

and protocol. The specimen is submitted as per code of sections.
CODE OF SECTIONS:

A1 Left fallopian tube and ovary

A2 Right fallopian tube and ovary

A3 Anterior cervix

A4-A5 Anterior endometrium/myometrium, mass, deepest Invasion

Right parametrial margin

Posterior cervix

Posterior endometrium/myometrium, mass, deepest invasion (serosal
involvement)

A11 Parametrial margin involvement

 

Part B is designated "pelvic cuI-de-sac". The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-gray to red membranous
tissue, 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Part C is designated “right pelvic lymph node". The specimen consists of a portion of tan-gray to yellow
rubbery tissue, 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Part D is designated "left pelvic lymph node". The specimen consists of Iobulated adipose tissue, 4.5 x 3.0 x
1.5 cm. Sectioning reveals a lymph node with possible tumor involvement, 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The entire
lymph node is submitted In. cassettes D1-D3.

Part E is designated "right paraaortic". The specimen consists of Iobulated adipose tissue with tangray
rubbery tissue, 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals a possible tumor bisected and entirely submitted in a

single cassette.

Part F is designated "left paraaortic". The specimen consists of a portion of Iobulated adipose tissue, 1.0 x 1.0
x 0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted as received in a single cassette.

 

Visit:
Page 4 of 5

 

  
    

Crltcrla

Diaﬂnosls Driver...”

Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
Ru-
*- 7 ‘5

       

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

 

submitted in cassettes G1-G2.

 

Visit:
Page 5 of 5

 

