 

Patholnnv and Laboratory Medicine

TCGﬂwﬂﬁ-IBM

 

==== =mssﬂ ”Fm--

CLINICAL HISTORY
Right frontal brain lesion

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Right frontal brain lesion

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain tumor, excision biopsy
B: Brain, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:
A. and B. Brain, right frontal tumor, excision biopsies: Anaplastic

oligodendroglioma (see comment}.

F
cc..aNT
Sections show an infiltrating glial tumor. Frequent mitotic figures are
present as is necrosis. Tumor nuclei are mostly round to oval and many show
nucleoli. In a few areas the cells more closely resemble neoplastic
astrocytes. Other areas show mucinous pools or distinct microcystic
architecture. The infiltrating tumor cells show prominent perineuronal
satellitosis and perivascular spread. Some areas of the tumor show background
ropy myelin. Many of these features are characteristic of oligodendroglial
tumors. Occasional tumor cells are GFAP positive. GFAP positive reactive
astrocytes are present. The tumor cells are 0020 and CD3 negative. NeuN
highlights cortical neurons and perhaps a few tumor cell nuclei. Alcian blue
is noncontributory.

The tumor shows demonstrates moderate p53 staining and the Ki~67 labeling‘
index is approximately 35%.

This tumor shows distinct oligodendroglial and to a lesser extent astrocytic
features, including astrocytic gemistocytes. The latter observation is
complicated by the presence of numerous reactive astrocytes and some
oligodendroglial mini—gemistocytes.

The differential diagnosis includes anaplastic oligodendroglioma or anaplastic
oligoastrocytoma {WHO Grade III) and glioblastoma wit ' '
component (WHO Grade IV). The patient‘s corresponding

slides were also reviewed. Clinical correlation is necessary.‘

MGMT promoter methylation and EGFRVIII assays are pending and the results,
which will be reported in procedure addenda, may help guide appropriate

tn ‘py.
lplSq LOH testing is recommended.

 

Requested by:

Page 1

 

 

 

 

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA

.MGMT Promoter Meth lation
Date Ordered: * Date Reported: -

Interpretation

 

POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

ResultSHComments
Testing performed on paraffin tissue block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA followed
by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not.to be construed as the results from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed an its performance‘
characteristics determined by the # laboratory as
required by CLIA '- regulations. as not een cleared or approved for

specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are

pg) ided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
tr,

context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

NEGATIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm 19q is NOT.
detected. '

Informative loci are: are D181592, D18468, D181612, D18496, D198219, 0198412,
and PLA2G4C

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from paraffin tumor block
and a corresponding blood specimen.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA
(baseline)/ Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and 19q. The 3 markers
on lp are D18548, 0181592, and 518552 (with D18468, D181612, and D13496 as
backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19q are D198219, D198412, and PLA2G4C
(with D198606 and D1981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites (2 or 4
ng‘ ‘peats) except PLA2G4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)

p tgnorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used if the

 

 

Requested by:

Page 2

 

    

first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or otherwise
ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each
chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas with 1p
a 19q deletion.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a

stand—alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics determined by the #laboratory as
required by CLIA ‘ - regulations. It as not can c eared or approved for

specific uses by the 0.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non—neoplastic cells in the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.

 

 

 

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

A. Brain, right frontal tumor, x ' ' ‘ - i hugrade glioma. Frozen
section and smears performed at nd results reported to
the Physician of Record.

  
 
 
 

 

Gi S DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh are fragments of soft tan tissue, 0.8 x 0.6 x0.4 cm
in aggregate. Samples are used for frozen sections and smears. The frozen
residual is submitted in Al and the unfrozen tissue is submitted in A2.

B. Received fresh for permanent sections are fragments of soft tan
tissue, 1.5 x 1.0 x 0 4 cm in aggregate Submitted in toto in Bit—132.-

ICD~9(S):

 

Histo Data
Part A: Br ‘ cision biopsy

  

Taken: Received:

Stain/cut Block Comment
FS H/E x l l

H/E x 1 l

H/E x l 2

TPS H/E x 1 (none)

Part B: B i ' ' biopsy

Ta 1: Received:

St a/cnt Block r er omment
Al Blue 2.5 x l l

 

Requested by: , Page 3

 

  

—DA x l
mCDS—DA x 1
EGFR—curls x l
m' P—DA x l
H, x l
MGMT—curls x l
MIBl~DA x 1
NeuN x l
P53DO'? X 1
Rct l H/E x l
H/E x l

*** End of Report ***

NHHHl—Jt—‘I—‘HHHW

For EGFRVIII

. men—054304

 

 

Requested by:

Page 4

 

