UUID:06A91CF9-5C17-A357-A214-23039508412B
TCGA- Ja-Aavn-esA-PR Re a (“fad

llllllllllllllllIllllwllllllllllllllll|l||||||||lIll
“11de mI|||||||l|llllllllllllllllllllllIIIlIIIIll

IN I
“IIHHIII‘IIIHH‘I lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

SurgPath Final .

Temporaz Copy . Page 1 of 3

. w
W m v
m M
FINAL DIAGNOSIS

A) Thyroid gland, total thyroidectomy: Multifocal papillary carcinoma

‘ involving the right and left sides of the thyroid (right > left) ranging In
size < 0.1 - 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. The surgical margins are
negative for tumor and deﬁnite extrathyroidai extension is not Identified.
Lymphovascuiar invasion is present. Multiple (10 of 14) perithyroidal
lymph nodes are positive for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma.
One right parathyroid gland Is also identified.
See synoptic ﬁndings below.

8) Left paratracheal lymph nodes. excision: One lymph node is negative for
tumor. Benign thymlc tissue is also identified.

C) Right neck contents, dissection: Multiple (3 of 25) lymph nodes are
involved by metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma.

A: Thyroid Gland [(9—03 (I
.HISTOLOGIC TYPE: ' ‘ (0'
Papillary carcinoma CQFCmOmOsIPOLp ,Harb,‘H’\\l ‘
Classical (usual) m DO) 3
TUMOR FOCALITY: ’
Multlfocal (specify): 5) it; )bi mph “Odé 1 NOS
Bilateral C779
TUMOR SIZE: $3152 20

Greatest Dimension: 4.5 cm

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm. limited to thyroid or with minimal
extrathyroidal extension (eg, extension to sternothyroid muscle or
perithyroid soft tissues)

REGlONAL LYMPH MODES (pN):
pN1b:Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervical (Levels

i, ll, iii. W, V) or retropharyngeal or superior medlastinal lymph nodes
(Level Vii).

NUMBER Oi" LYMPH NODEiS) INVOLVED: 13

NUMBER OF LYMPH NODE(S) EXAMINED: 4o

SurgPath Final

Temporary Copy Page 2 of 3

M

m w

W M
. .1

DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
Not applicable

MARGINS:
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Present:

EXTRATHYROIDAL EXTENSION:
Not identiﬁed

ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:
Parathyroid gland(s):
Within normal limits

7'. — u.—
H W
SPECIMEN RECEIVED

A) THYROID GLAND AND NODES, FS
B) LEFT PARATRACHEAL LYMPH NODE
C) RIGHT NECK CONTENTS

FROZEN SECTION
A) Thyroid gland. total thyroidectomy: Papillary thyroid carcinoma forming a
predominant nodule in the right lobe. A representative perithyroidal lymph
node is also positive for metastatic papillary carcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A) Received fresh forfrozen section labeled “thyroid gland and nodes” is a complete
thyroidectomy specimen with attached soft tissues weighing 65 grams. and
measuring 10.0 x 7.0 x 2.5 cm overall. The specimen is inked with black ink, serially
sectioned. and reveals a large yellow/tan to tan/pink indurated mass in the right lobe
of the thyroid measuring 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. Touch preps are made, and
a representative section of that mass is submitted for frozen section as A1.
Additional small nodular areas are identiﬁed within the thyroid. Multiple enlarged
indurated cystic lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the attached fatty soft tissues
measuring up to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. A portion of the largest iymph node

 

SurgPath Final
Temporary Copy
m

m
M .

Page 3 of 3

   

is submitted for frozen section as A2. A portion of the thyroid mass and a portion of
the indurated lymph node are submitted for the thyroid research study. Additional
sections are submitted for permanent section as follows: A3-A6 additional sections
of large mass within right lobe. A7 bisected second discrete nodule within right lobe.
A8 bisected third discrete nodule within right lobe. A9 fourth smaller nodule in right
lobe, A10 isthmus, A11-A12 nodules in left lobe. A13 representative section of
uninvolved left lobe, A14 representative section of uninvolved right lobe, A15
additional section of large cystic tumor replaced lymph node, A16 representative
sections of second tumor replaced lymph node, A17 representative sections of third
tumor replaced lymph node. A18 bisected lymph node, A19 bisected lymph node.
A20 bisected lymph node, A21 additional smaller lymph nodes.

B) Received in formalin labeled "left paratracheal lymph node" are two irregular
portions of pink/tan to yellow/tan soft tissue measuring 0.7 cm and 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension, respectively. The larger portion Is bisected and submitted in 81
and 32, while the smaller portion is submitted in B3.

C) Received in formalin labeled "right neck contents" is an unoriented irregular
portion of yellow lobulated soft tissue measuring 15.0 x 12.0 x 3.5 cm overall. A
large cystic mass is identified measuring 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. On
transaction, this mass exudes brown/tan ﬂuid and holds brown/tan material. Two
additional large cystic masses are also identiﬁed measuring 3.5 cm and 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension, respectively. Multiple additional lymph nodes measuring up to
1.7 cm in greatest dimension are also identiﬁed. Attached to the specimen is a
portion of beefy red/tan skeletal muscle measuring 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.
The muscle appears unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted for
permanent section as follows: 01-02 sections through largest cystic mass, C3-C4
sections through second cystic mass, 05 rcpresentative sections of third cystic
mass. C6 bisected lymph nodes, 07 bisected lymph node, 08-011 additional
possible lymph nodes, 012 skeletal muscle.

‘-

CLINICAL INFORMATION
THYROID CANCER

 

