 

~421M‘Lm‘ﬁ‘15tgimfilre’ .. .- hum-(:5:

Report Status: Amend/Addenda

 

Accession Number:
Type: Surgical Pathology

Specimen Type: Kidne artial or total resection
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

   
  
 
  

CGA — 02 —5451

  

CASE:
PATIENT:

{Hr *'k*****

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. LEFT KIDNEY, RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY:
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, CLEAR CELL TYPE (8.? cm}. Fuhrman grade III, unifocal,
involving the lower pole.
No capsular extension identified.
Soft tissue, ureteral and vascular margins negative for tumor.
Adrenal gland negative for tumor.
Cortical simple cysts (3.5 cm largest).
AJCC (3th edition classification T2 N0 Mx

B. SPECIMEN LABELED "10th RIB SEGMENT":
Bone, cartilage, and skeletal muscle, negative for tumor.

Maturing trilineage hematopoiesis

C. SPECIMEN LABELED "REGIONAL NODE":
Thirteen (13) lymph nodes with negative for tumor.

CLINICAL

History: with weight loss, ﬁatigue fo d renal mass by CT.
Operation: Nephrectomy. L////pn

Operative Findings: Not provided.

Clinical Diagnosis: Renal mass by CT.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A. (L) kidney

B. 10th rib segment
C. Regional node

'cnoss DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in three parts, each labeled with the patients

name and unit number.

Part A, labeled "1. L kidney”, consists of a 1449 gm left nephrectomy specimen
(26.0 x 11.5 x 8.5 cm) including kidney (18.5 x 8.0 x 7.0 cm), ureter (8.2 cm
in length x 0.5 cm in diameter), renal vein (0.5 cm in length,x 0.2 cm in
diameter), renal artery (2.6 cm in length x 0.6 Cm in diameter), and attached
yellow/tan perinephric adipose tissue (up to 3.5 cm in thickness). The
specimen is bivalved. In the lower pole, 8.5 cm from the ureteral margin, 4.9
cm from the renal artery margin. and 3.5 cm from the renal vein margin, there
is a well encapsulated yellow/red hemorrhagic centrally fibrotic mass (3. 7 x
7. 4 x 5.7 cm) compressing and distorting the renal parenchyma and the renal
capsule Upon sectioning, the mass is approximately 90% solid and 10% cystic.
The mass comes to within 0.3 cm of the blue inked deep/perinephric fat margin.
The mass focally compresses and distorts but does not grossly appear to invade
into the inferior pelvocaliceal system and renal sinus.

The uninvolved kidney parenchyma is tan/brown with a moderately distinct
cortical medullary junction and approximately six smooth walled tan simple
cortical cyst (ranging from 0.7 to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension) Scattered
throughout the mid and superior poles. Each of the cysts is filled with clear
serous fluid, with no excrescences grossly identified. The pelvocaliceal
system is moderately dilated and_exhibits smooth glistening tan mucosa. The
adrenal gland (6.2 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm) is present and exhibits an unremarkable
gelden yellow cortex (0.2 cm in maximum thickness) and red/brown medulla (0.1

cm in maximum thickness}.

 

 

 

examined. There is no evidence of active glomerulitis, proliferative lesions or“
is?

fibrinoid necrosis. .‘
"-‘l

. - 5 7.
The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr— Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin—fixed, paraffin—embedded tissue (block A8) were evaluated

using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of cortex and medulla. There are 155 glomeruli present, of
which 16 (10.3 %) are globally sclerosed. The remaining glomeruli show mild
signs of hypertrophy of the tuft. There is very mild, focal expansion of the
mesangial areas. ,On PAS and Jones silver stains there are no discernible
crater—like defects or "spikes", and only isolated double contours of the
glomerular capillary wall basement membranes are recognized. Several distal
tubules contain PAS—positive hyaline casts. Isolated distension of tubules is
recognized in the cortical area. Approximately 5% of the cortical parenchyma
shows tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis as seen in the trichrome stain
(AFOG). Arteries and arterioles exhibit moderate degree of sclerosis, with
focal hyaline accumulation in the subintima in the arterioles.

 

 

 

 

 

  

Tamar-m: : * --=:-:rr(-;:—¢r.r:se1¢1 u heapeaauwim .». -':'—JT:-1h-- .: [kit-Van

Recession Number: m Report Status: Final
Type: Cytogenetics
CASE:

PATIENT: '

Cytogeneticist:

KARYOTYPE: 46,XY[15]

METAPHASES COUNTED: 15 ANALYZED: 5 SCORED: 10 BANDING: OTG
INTERPRETATION:

No cytogenetic aberrations were identified in metaphases analyzed from this
specimen. This normal result does not exclude a neOplastic proliferation;

‘COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the

standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
RCC

 

  

an?! meg—urns: +u.~\\:144;'.t_2r| : e:.-.v_--:p_n.«.qqeu«peas-u lei-J41 :::5::1 inf—.17: 1.1,.

 

