 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

'. Sulgical Patholggx W Final}
Path Report Fina.

SURGlCAL PATHOI “9V '3‘”in

ACCESSION NO. :

Final Diagnosls(es): ’

(A) Kidney. right, partial nephrectomy. 1:61) ~63 3

1) Papillary renal cell carcinoma (5.0 cm), Fuhrman grade 4 H. 0.0 (21.0.

2 (see Synoptic report). CZLWM/ 1’ ; y ‘ 7 9310015

2) Margins negative.

(B) Perinephric fat. right side. excision: Benign adipose 8 (T @%d@ HOS

genie. no malignancy identified. 0 {a 4‘7
noptic Report:

Laterality: Right. Gib.) 8/10! I l 3

Specimen Procedure: Partial nephrectomy.

Tumor Site: Upper pole.

Tumor Size: 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm.

Tumor Focality: Unifocal.

Mecrompic Extent of Tumor. See Comment.

Histologic Type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma. type i.

Sarcomatoid Features: Not identiﬁed.

Tumor Necrosis: Not identiﬁed.

Histologic Grade (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): Grade 2.

Microscopic Extent of Tumor. See Comment.

Lympiwascular invasion: Not identified.

Margins:

Parenchymal: Negative.

Soft Tissue: Negative.‘

Regional lymph nodes: Cannot be assessed. pNX.

Pathologic Staging: pT1b NX NIX (see Comment).

Patholﬁic Findings in Non-Neoplastic Kidney: None identiﬁed.

Comments:

The capsule overlying the tumor was disrupted prior to receipt

of the specimen, with tumor contents spilling out of the

superior pole. However, sections of the adjacent perinephrio

fat show no deﬁnitive invasion, fibrosis or inflammation.
Therefore. we favor that the neoplasm was conﬁned to the kidney
prior to surgery and is therefore staged pT1 b.

This case has been reviewed and the diagnosis approved by
consulting departmental surgical pathology staff.

'The gross description and all micromopic slides have been

reviewed and immune-4 m the undersigned pathologist ”“1“‘4’521523222‘3-“7‘2'333135339'528499’é9e457a.cted
”III I I III

em“ - ' IllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllI||||||l|||||ll|l||lll||||||
i | S ed—

t' my '9" Ill||llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll
specimens; neoawau: ‘ I”lllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

A: Right partial nephrectomy
B: Perinephrio fat right side

 

 

 

Printed from:

 

Page: 1 of 4

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clinical History:
Right renal mass.
(A) Tumor Board.
-

Intraoperative Consultation:
Time Received:
Time Reported:

FSA1-FSA4: Right partial nephrectomy: Renal resection margin
free of tumor.

Gross Description:
(A) (right partial nephrectomy -FS)
Specimen components and dimensions: Received fresh for
intraoperative consultation are 43.0 gm. 6.5 x 6.0 x up to 0.3
cm portion of resented kidney, attached perinephric fat with
extruding soft brown friable material; and several fragments of
mid-yellow adipose tissue. weighing 440 gm. and measuring 20.0 x
14.0 x 5.0 cm in aggregate dimensions The parenchymal margin
on the resection specimen grossly appears tree of tumor. The
pamnchymal margin is submitted on face for frozen section
evaluation as FSA1-FSA4.
Size. appearance and location of tumor: The lesion erodes
intolextrudes out from the pole of the resection specimen. and
measures 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm. It is thinly encapsulated adjacent
to the adjacent renal parenchyma and consists largely of
red-brown friable tissue and debris. The superior aspect merges
will; the perinephric fat. and is not encapsulated or surrounded

at.

Renal capsulelRenal sinus: The minimal amount of capsule over

the parenchymal resection margin appears grossly free of tumor.
Renal sinus is not present.

Renal vein: Vacular margins were not submitted.
Other ﬁndings: The perinephric fat is uniformly soft.
red-yellow. and grossly free of tumor. There is an 8.5 x 3.5 x

20 cm segment of spongy friable red~brown material. consistent
with the lesional tissue.

Uninvolved tissues: The adjacent grossly normal renal
parenchyma is red brown and unremarkable. The extra renal fat is
soft. red to yellow and without lesion.

Lymph nodes: Lymph nodes were not submitted.

Blocks submitted:

AS—AT - full thickness cross section of lesion extending into
perlrenal fat

A8-A9 - normal parenchyma adjacent on either side of lesion
A10 - representative section of additional leeional tissue
A11-A12 - representative sections of perinephric fat

(B) ’(perinephrlc fat right side) Received in formalin is 110
gm. 16.0 x 15.0 x 1.5 cm segment of yellow-red fibrcadipose

 

 

Printed from:

Page: 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

tissue. Serial sectioning through the specimen reveals a
uniform soft yellow cut surface. Representative sections are
submitted in 31-82. '

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. _

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of lH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR’s). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

' g - They
have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary for the ASR’s. These tests are not investigations!

and are used in standard clinical care. In cases where
lmmunchlstochemistry testing is performed. the following

antibodies and their respective clones may be used to determine
therapy for the patient: EFGR(3c6), ER(SP1). PR(1E2),
Her2neu(485). CD117(Po|y). CD20(L26) Ki67(30-9).

Unless otherwise stated in the report. all tissue tested for

ERPR by lHC, Her2 by MC and/or HERZ by FISH have been ﬁxed as
per CAP. requirements for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum
of 46 hours

ER. PR. Ki-67. p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative

percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-Zlneu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is

scored as (1+). less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+). and strong mmplete staining in more

that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
parafﬁn unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

 

 

Printed from:

Page: 3 of 4

 

 

