   

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
A: Tongue and mandible, total glossectomy.

Invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated, with surface

necrosis.

No in situ component identified.

Tumor size: 6.0 cm

Depth of invasion: 1.3 cm

Invasion of associated minor salivary gland: Positive.
Lymphovascular invasion: Positive.

Perineural invasion: Positive, extensive.

Associated bone: Negative for tumor.

Lymph nodes: Negative (0/10).

Margins: Positive (tumor undermines intact mucosa at

anterior margin). All other margins are negative.

B:

C:

Right neck Level II lymph nodes, removal.
Negative for tumor (0/17).

Right neck Level III lymph nodes, removal.
Negative for tumor (0/11).

Right neck Level IV lymph nodes, removal.
Negative for tumor (0/5).
Benign skeletal muscle.

Right neck Level V lymph nodes, removal.
Negative for tumor (0/5).

Porta—cath, removal.
Catheter.
Gross evaluation only

TCGA-BA-4075

 

Clinical History:
persistent tongue cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Type of specimen: total glossectomy with neck dissection

Size of specimen: The specimen consists of a composite
resection consisting of right mandible {8.5 x 3.5 x 0.9 cm)
and the entire tongue (14.0 x 6.0 x 3.0 cm). Attached to
the inferior aspect of the mandible is a pedicle of
yellow/tan soft tissue that measures 6.5 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm.

Orientation of specimen: The specimen is not oriented. The
margins are inked as follows: anterior/green,
posterior/blue, lateral/orange, inferior/yellow, deep/black

Tumor description: grayish/white, ulcerative lesion

Location of tumor: The tumor is situated at the tongue
root, right floor of the mouth, and right tonsillar fossa.

Tumor size: 6.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm

Extent of tumor: The tumor extends along the entire right
lateral mucosal surface to grossly involve the anterior
soft tissue margin of resection. On cut section, the tumor
extends into the vertical muscle of the tongue to a depth
of 1.3 cm.

Presence/absence of bone involvement: The tumor abuts the
submandibular fossa, does not grossly appear to be invading
into the bone.

. . .
Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The tumor grossly

involves the anterior soft tissue margin of resection.

Description of remainder of tissue: Embedded within the
soft tissue pedicle, extending from the inferior aspect of

 

the mandible, are seven apparent tan/brown lymph nodes that
measure up to 0.4 cm. In addition, the inferior aspect of
the mandible has what appears to be a segment of possible
submandibular gland that measures 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm; on
cut section, two additional apparent lymph nodes are
identified that measure up to 0.4 cm. Elsewhere, the soft
tissues are unremarkable.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: A small
portion of tumor and normal tissue are given to Tissue
Procurement.

Block Summary:

A1 ~ left lateral gingival margin, en face

A2 " anterior soft tissue margin, en face

A3,A4 - right palatoglossal and palatatopharyngeal soft
tissue margins, en face

A5,A6 - posterior soft tissue margin, en face

A7 — inferior medial mucosal margin, en face

A8 — additional inferior margin, en face

A9 — representative deep soft tissue margin

A10 — posterior bone margin, en face

All — anterior bone margin, en face

A12,A13 — representative sections of tumor

A14 — representative section of tumor and bone

A15,A16 — additional sections of tumor

A17 m grossly unremarkable tongue

A18 F six apparent lymph nodes from soft tissue pedicle
A19 w two apparent lymph nodes from soft tissue pedicle
A20—A22 — remainder of soft tissue pedicle, entirely
submitted

A23 — representative section of possible submandibular
gland with single apparent lymph node

A24 — representative section of possible submandibular
gland with second individual apparent lymph node

Container B is additionally labeled ”right neck, Level II
lymph nodes." It holds a fragment of tan/yellow soft tissue
that measures 12.5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm. Embedded within the soft
tissue are 18 apparent tan/brown lymph nodes that range in
size from a few mm' s up to 1.0 cm.

Bl — eleven apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted
32 ~ five apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted
B3 — two apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted

 

Container C is additionally labeled "right neck, Level
Ill. "

It holds a portion of brown/gray soft tissue that measures
7.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. Embedded within the soft tissue are
eight apparent tan/brown lymph nodes that range in size
from a few mm' 5 up to 1.1 cm.

Cl — six apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted
C2 ~ two apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted

Container D is additionally labeled "right neck, Level IV."
It holds a portion of yellow/brown skeletal muscle that
measures 5.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. A small amount of adipose
tissue is attached to the external surface. Embedded within
the adipose tissue are six apparent tan/brown lymph nodes
that range in size from a few mm' 8 up to 1.2 cm. The
attached surface of the skeletal muscle is unremarkable.

Dl — four apparent lymph nodes, entirely submitted
D2 — single apparent bisected lymph node, entirely
submitted
D3 w single bisected apparent lymph node, entirely
submitted

Container E is additionally labeled "right neck, Level V.”
It holds a fragment of yellow/tan soft tissue that measures
5.5 x 3.0 x 1.3 cm. Embedded within the soft tissue are
five apparent tan lymph nodes that range in size from 0.3
up to 0.8 cm. (Block E1, -

Container F is additionally labeled "portaacath." It holds
a white metal reservoir that measures 2.0 x 2.0 X 1.0 cm.
Attached to the reservoir is a white plastic catheter that
measures 26.5 cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter.
Inscribed on the back of the metal reservoir in the
following information: Bard E03125. The specimen is for
Gross only.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

(Specimen A)

Histologic tumor type: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma

 

Histologic grade: moderately differentiated, superficial
necrosis

Tumor extent: invades 1.3 cm in to skeletal muscle,
involves
minor salivary gland

Presence/absence of CIS: absent
Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: present

Presence/absence of perineural space invasion: present,
extensive

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: positive
anterior

(A2, invasive tumor undermines intact mucosa) all other
margins and bone are negative.

Lymph nodes: total 0/48

0/10, 4 show partial fibrosis
0/17, 6 show partial fibrosis.
0/11, 1 with partial fibrosis
0/5, no fibrosis

0/5, no fibrosis

[11000353

AJCC staging:
PT3
PNO
pMX

This staging information is based on this pathologic
specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of
all available information is recommended to determine final
staging.

 

