uUIIBUtIOH uate:
Hospitat of Origir ’
Copy "" "

QC Pathologist:

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DlAGNOSiS:

A. Right and left pelvic lymph node dissections:

Ten benign hyperplasiic regional lymph nodes (0110).

B. Radical prostatectomy: ‘
Carcinoma.

Tumor Characteristics:

1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, conventional type.
2. Prostate size: 4.8 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm weighing 34.9 grams.

3. Tumor quantitatlon: estimated 5 to 10% of gland volume
involved.

- 4. Gleason grade:

Primary pattern: 315.

Secondary pattern: 45.

Total Gleason score: 7l10.

Extraprostatic extension: Not identiﬁed.

Seminal vesicle involvement: Not identiﬁed.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.
High grade PIN: Present.

. Treatment effect: Not identified .

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Margins uninvolved.

Lymph Node Status: (utilizing specimen A)

1. Total number of lymph nodes received: Ten.

2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic
carcinoma: None (Oil 0).

Other:

1. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: None.

2. pTNM stage: pT20,NO.

wmﬂawnne

COMMENTS:

CLINICAL HtSTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Right and left pelvic lymph nodes
8. Prostate .W—f

 

 

/-BGI\—Hc-721l

1r.

I

 

 

PROCEDURAL DE 0 8:
Date of Procedure

Accession DateiTime:

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A. The specimen is received in a single formalin-tilled
container labeled with the patients name

"right and left pelvic lymph nodes," and consists of a 5.0

x 4.5 x 2.5 cm, aggregate of yellow—tan, fibrofatty soft
tissue. On palpation, muitiple firm fatty possible lymph
nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.1 up to 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in cassettes
A1 -4, labeled designated as follows: A1,
five whole possrble lymph nodes; A2, four whole possible
lymph nodes; A3 and 4, one whole possible bisected lymph
node in each cassette.

B. The specimen is received in a single formalin—ﬁlled
container labeled with the patients name

"prostate,” and contains a 34.9 gm, 4.8 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm
prostate received with attached bilaterat adnexa having
overall dimensions of 6.5 x 3.5 x 0.5 cm. The capsule is
tan-gray and shaggy. The specimen is inked as foltows: right
side blue, left side black. The base and apical margins are
coned and serially sectioned. The remainder of the gland is
serially sectioned from apex to base to reveal a 1.5 x 1.0 x
0.8 cm, well—circumscribed, yellow—tan nodule located in the
right posterior quadrant. This nodule abuts the inked
capsule. Additionally, a 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm, ill—defined

area of tan—orange discoloration is present within the right
and left posterior quadrants. This area approaches to within
0.5 cm of the base margin and to within 0.2 cm of the right

prostatelseminal vesiclejunction. The remainder of the cut -

surface is pink—tan and focally cystic with diffuse
periurethral nodularity. No additional lesions or calculi

are identified. Representative sections are submitted in
cassettes 81-18, labeled designated as
follows: i, right prostate/seminai vesicle junction; 2, left
prostate [seminal vesicle junction; 3 and 4, apical margin,
perpendicular; 5 and 6, base margin, perpendicular; 7-9,
right anterior, apex to base; 10-12, right posterior, apex
to base; 13-15, left anterior, apex to base; 16-18, left
posterior, apex to base. Additionally, a yellow and a green
cassette are submitted for genomics research, each labeled

INTRA—PROCEDURE CONSULTATION:

,5; MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:

 

 

