   

SPECIMEN

A. Left lower lobe
B. Level 9
C. Level 11
D. Level 5

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
”left lower lobe" is a 15 x 14 x 10 cm lobe of lung, which
is partially covered with pink—gray smooth glistening pleura, which
is stippled with black discoloration. The specimen shows a 10 cm
stapled margin near the hilum. There is a firm focus on the
pleura. .
The focus is inked black and the specimen is sectioned to show a
4.5
x 4.5 x 4 cm pinkwtan-white firm tumor, which appears centrally
necrotic. This comes within 1.2 cm of the pleura and 3 cm from the
bronchial margin. This also comes within 2 cm of the surgical
margin at the hilum. The remainder of the cut surfaCe is pink—red
and spongy with no other discrete gross lesions identified. Few
lymph nodes are grossly identified near the hilum. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted as follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 H Representative normal, 2 — tumor to pleura, 3 -
tumor to normal, 4 m tumor to surgical margin {inked blue}, 5 —
tumor to bronchus, 6 — bronchial and vascular margins, 7 H possible
hilar lymph node. RS—7.

B. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin

labeled "level 9" are tw0 pink—red irregular soft tissue
fragments, which are 0.7 X 0.5 x 0.4 cm and 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm.
Specimens are entirely submitted. AS—l.

C. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

labeled “level 11" are two black red irregular soft tissue
fragments which are 1 cm and 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The
smaller tissue fragment is firm and hard. The specimens are
entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l.

D. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin

labeled "level 5" are multiple pink—red irregular soft
tissue fragments, which have an aggregate measurement of 1.5 x 0.7

0.3 cm. Specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A. The following template applies to the left lower lobe

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): Measures 4.5 cm {pTZa}

Margins of resection: Uninvolved

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified

Lymphatic (small vessel} invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): One lymph node with no metastasis.
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
(pMX)

Other findings: None.

B. The level 9 lymph node demonstrates one lymph node

with

no evidence of metastasis.

C. The level 11 lymph node demonstrates one lymph node
with no evidence of metastasis.

D. The level 5 lymph node demonstrates approximately 4

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DE SCRI PTION
nodal fragments with no evidence of metastatic disease.

5, 3x3

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lung, left lower lobe, resection:
Squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated, 4.5 cm in
greatest dimension.
Surgical margins uninvolved.
One lymph node with no evidence of metastasis (0/1).
E. Level 9 lymph node, resection: No evidence of metastatic
disease in one lymph node {0/1).
C. Level 11 lymph node, resection: No evidence of metastasis in
one lymph node (0/1).
D. Level 5 lymph node, resection: No evidence of metastasis in
four node fragments (0/4).

 

——— End Of Report ——~

 

 

