CGA—DU—8163

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Patient Name:_ Accession #:-

Med: Rec.: Phone Number.

DOB: Gender: M
Clien : Locati ‘
Taken:

Received:

— Reported:

 
 
 
 

  
 
  
   

CLINICAL HISTORY

man experienced recent onset seizures, and during

  

was fount to have a 4 x 3 cm, nonenhancing lesion in the left middle

temporal
lobe. Tumor was partially resected, and in follow up imaging there

are focal
areas of enhancement.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Left temporal glioma

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain, biopsy#1
B: Brain, biopsy#2
C: Brain, residual posterior superior flair, biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOS I S:

A, B, C. Brain, sites not specified, excisions: Mixed
oligoastrocytoma, with

focal anaplastic features (WHO grade III).

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

Parts A, B, and C are portions of cerebrum that are sparsely to

moderately,

and diffusely infiltrated by a glial neoplastic proliferation. The
neoplastic

cells are mostly naked, round to ovoid naked nuclei with little
pleomorphism.

Focally, there are mitotic figures up to seven / ten high power

fields, and
the MIBwl proliferation index is moderately elevated to about 10% in

the more
active areas. There are occasionally vessels with endothelial

hyperplasia,
and there are a couple of zones with microvascular cellular
proliferation.

 

There is no tumor necrosis.

These findings are interpreted as those of a mixed oligoastrocytoma

that
focally is undergoing anaplastic transformation (WHO III). Molecular

testing
may better characterize the tumor.

In part B there is also a portion of the cavity of the previous
surgery; it

contains inflamed granulation tissue and fragments of surgical
hemostatic

material. Focally, the brain tissue surrounding the cavity has
infiltrating

atypical cells consistent with neoplasia.

Parts A and C are moderately infiltrated by the neoplastic

proliferation.
Parts A and C contain a few vessels with microvascular cellular

proliferation.

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
Loss of Heterozygosity 1p, 19q Assay (LOH)

Interpretation

NEGATIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm 19q is

NOT
detected.

Informative loci are: D13548, D18552, D198412, and PLAZG4C

Results—Comments

Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block DNA
extracted from a corresponding blood specimen was used as a normal
reference control.

B and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA
(baseline)/ Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and qu. The 3

markers
on 1p are D13548, D181592, and D18552 (with D13468, D181612, and

D18496 as
backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19q are 0198219, D198412, and

PLA2G4C
(with 0198606 and D1981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites

(2 or 4

 

nt repeats) except PLA2G4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)
polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used

if the
first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or

otherwise
ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each

chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas

with 1p
and 19q deletion.

FDA.COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand—alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its

performance
characteristics determined by the —aborat0ry as
required by CLIA ' 88 regulations. It has not een c eared or appr0ved
for

specific uses by the 0.3. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non—neoplastic cells in

the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.

MGMT Promoter Methylation

Date Ordered: — Date Reported: _

Interpretation

NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

ResultSHComments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT

promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.

Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA

followed
by realHtime PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and

unmethylated DNA
sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by

serial
dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and

was

 

assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated

DNA.
Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the

sample, or
extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated

MGMT
promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its

performance
characteristics determined by the Wlaboratory as
required by CLIA '88 regulations. as no es or approved
for

specific uses by the 0.3. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
only in

the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

 

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

B.
"Biopsy #2: Diffusely infiltrating glioma, with abnormal vessels

ming?). - Touch preparation smears performed at—
and results reported to the Physician of Record. -

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.
"Biopsy # 1." received fresh, three fragments, 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm in

aggregate. Semi firm, tannish—white, glistening. A1

B.
"Biopsy # 2," received fresh, two fragments, 1.7 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm in

aggregate.
Semi firm, tannish~white, glistening. Serially sectioned, El and

B2.A.

C.Brain,residual posterior superior flair, biopsy: CONTAINER LABEL:

residual

posterior superior flair.

FIXATIVE: Formalin. NO. PIECES: 1 and fleck. SIZE/VOL: 3.5xl.5x0.7
cm.; 1.06

grams CASSETTES: 1, 2N8.

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY; The GFAP demonstrates a moderate gliofibrillary
background, and focally numerous mini gemistocytes. A large majority
of

neoplastic cells strongly over express the p53 protein. With the MIB—
1 there

is a proliferation index of about 10% in the more active areas. The
CD34

depicts focal microvascular cellular proliferation.

ICD—9(s):
191.2 191.2

 

Histo Data

Received: —

    
 

 

Block Ordered Comment
1
mGFAP—DA x 1 1
H/E x 1 1
LOH—curls x 1 1 1p p, 19g, please.
MGMTwcurls x l 1
MIBl-DA x 1 l
P53D07 x 1 1
Bot l H/E x 1 1 blocks pulled

Part B: Brain, biopsy#2
Taken: — Received

Block —omment
H/E x l 1
Rot 1 3/3 x l 1 blocks pulled
TPS H/E x l 1
H/E x l 2
Rot 1 H/E x l 2 blocks pulled

 

Part C' Brain residual posterior sup—rior flair, biopsy

Taken: Received:
Stain Block Ordered

HIE x 1

RCt 1 H/E X 1 l
H/E x 1 2
Rct l H/E X 1 2

*** End of Report ***

      

—omment
blocks pulled i

blocks pulled

 

 

