uum: AIBBSBUSA 5353- -4864- 9333- “tongues”:
'rc GA -u A-PR ted

III II II I Ill I II I IIIIIIII III I IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII IIIIII III
' IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIII III III

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

    
    
  

  
 
 

Patient Nam Accession #:
Visit #: Service Date
x. Male Received:
Location: - Client:
Physician(s):

 

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left kidney, partial nephrectomy:

1. Papillary renal cell carcinoma, 6.2 cm, Fuhrman grade 2, negative margins.
2. Arteriosclerosis.
3. Simple renal cyst.

B. Left kidney, medial margin, partial nephrectomy: No tumor.
in'iD o "
COMMENT: 5
Kidney Tumor Synoptic Comment (I'm ﬂ 3 “Q 4 ( M4
- Histologic type: Renal cell carcinoma, papillary,type 1. 4441C WW / jag )3 47
- Grade: Fuhrman grading for RCC: 2 M OKLA 3’0? é 55 ‘
- Tumor size: 6.2 cm.
- Site within kidney: Lower pole. @412 CL) 76w; A4553 CV09 (I
- Intrarenal veins and lymphatics: No tumor.
- Adrenal gland: Not present. A 51:50
- Capsule/perimml fat: Tumor does not penetrate the capsule. II
- Lymph node status: None present.
- Resection margins:
- Soft tissue: Negative; tumor is 0.05 cm from the margin (slide A7).

- Renal parenchyma: Negative; tumor is <O.1 cm from margin (slide A8)
- AJCC Stage: pTlNXMx.

A reviewed slide A7 and concurs with the diagnosis.

_ was informed of the diagnosis on _

 

Specimen“) Received
A:Left partial kidney
B:Mediai margin left kidney - true margin inked

 

“ Page 1 of2

”J

Clinical History

The patient is a ear-old male with a 5.2 minimally enhancing left lower renal mass suspicious for
papillary renal cell carcinoma. The patient undergoes
a partial nephrectomy, including the mass suspic ous carcinoma and an adjacent ﬂuid-filled
cyst.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in two parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.

Part A is received fresh, labeled "partial left nephrectomy," and consists of a 185 gm, 9.3 x 7.1 x 5.2
cm, yellow to brown partial nephrectomy specimen. On cross-section, the specimen demonstrates a 5.2
cm, round, capsulated, yellow to red, soft mass consistent with renal cell carcinoma and an adjacent 4.5
cm clear ﬂuid containing cyst with a smooth cystic lining. Additionally, the scant normal-appearing tan
to brown kidney tissue contains Smaller simple cysts. The entire extemai surface was inked black for
microscopic evaluation. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette A1: Tumor with simple cyst wall and black ink.

Cassette A2: Tumor with kidney tissue and black ink.

Cassette A3: Tumor with black ink.

Cassette A4: Tumor with black Ink.

Cassette A5: Tumor with kidney and perinephric fat with ink.

Cassette A6: Tumor with ink.

Cassette A7: Tumor with kidney and simple cyst, and renal parenchyma (surgical margin of
kidney) with ink.

Cassette A8: Tumor with thin capsule.

Cassette A9: Tumor with ink.

Cassette A10: Tumor with ink.

Part B, received in formalin and labeled "medial margin left kidney true margin inked," consists of a 2.5
x 0.5 x 0.5 cm triangular piece of brown tissue with no lesions grossly. The specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette Bl, which is inked blue on the true margin and serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette Bl.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

-athology Resident athoiogist
Electronically sign

 

 

- Page 2 or 2

