 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

COPY TO:

Pre-Op Diagnosis
Lung mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Fourpads

Container tabeledF - right lung lower lobe“ has a
previously partially In e , prewousiy partially sectioned

recognizabie portion of pulmonary parenchyma consistent with right
lower lobe. The specimen as received weighs 209 grams and is
received after tissue harvest for genomic stud . Within the s ecimen
container are two tissue cassettes labeledH The
right lower lobe as received measures 15.0 x136 x 5.0 cm and has
as its margin of resection stapled bronchial margin. The pleura is
smooth and moderately anthracotlc streaked. On the posterior upper
aspect extending laterally, the specimen is previously partially
sectioned to reveal a 3.0 x 2.8 x 2.7 cm irregular tan-gray fibrotic
lesion which is noted subpleurally. This extends to but not through
the pleura in this area. This has a markedly anthracotic streaked
friable gray—tan fibrotlc cut surface. This is noted at its nearest

point 3.5 cm from the nearest bronchial margin. An apparent
bronchiai connection is identiﬁed. Immediately surrounding the

lesion is a moderate amount of cavitary emphysema. The remaining
parenohyma is spongy and congested with marked anthracotio streaking
and areas of apparent gross emphysema. Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A - shaved bronchiat margin; B—F —
lesion and surrounding tissue; G — random uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled - level 9 lymph node right lung“

 

has 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm of gray-red to black shaggy tissue fragments,
entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled F level 4 lymph node right lung”
has two irregular roug y no u ar portions of gray-black fleshy
tissue with surrounding fibroadipose tissue. The portions together
measure 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. Specimen is sectioned and entirely

submitted in a single cassette.

 
 

Container labeled —level 10 lymph node right lung"
has two irregular fragments of gray-black fleshy tissue, 0.7 x 0.4 x
0.3 cm and 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Specimen is entirely submitted in a
single cassette.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labele-
Final Diagnosis
Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Specimen integrity: intact.
Specimen laterality: Unilateral.
Histologlc type: Adenocarcinoma.
Grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated (grade 2—3).
Tumor site: Right lower lobe, posterior and lateral.
Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 3.0 x 2.8 x 2.7 cm.
Visceral pleural invasion: Tumor extends through the elastic layer
(see comment).
Lymphovascular space invasion: Multiple foci suspicious for
vascular invasion identified.
Tumor extension: Tumor conﬁned to lung.
Treatment effect: Not identiﬁed/not known.
Surgical margin status:
Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 3.5 cm
Tumor distance from pleural surface: Tumor extends iess than 1 mm
from pleural surface but does not extend through pleura.
Lymph node status:
Total number of lymph nodes received with lobectomy specimen
(peribronchiai): 1
Totai number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
(011)
See also parts 2, 3, and 4.
Other: Minimal emphysematous change.
Stage: pT2aN0
Lymph node, level 9, excision:
Multiple fragments of benign lymph node (0M).
Lymph node, level 4, right lung, excision:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (012),

Lymph node, level '10, right lung, excision:
Two limih nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (012). -

Comments

Histologic sections from the lung mass demonstrate a moderate to
poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma morphologically compatible with
pulmonary origin. The tumor abuts the inked pleural surface along a

i

 

broad front. Multiple sections from this area demonstrate the tumor
to extend through the elastic layer to within 1 mm of the pleural
surface. These findings are conﬁrmed by elastic stain with working
control. Extension through the pleural surface, however, is not
identified in sections examined. Clinical correlation and

correlation with intraoperative ﬁndings is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned ' t. these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. ho concurs with the

diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at th-

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

 

