UUID:1DBAA86F--78C1 ASFS- --9C30 BEBCEZFRIIFESBGac
TCGA UZ- A9 Q0- 9111- -PR

I I
‘ ||l|
VIllIIII'IIIII'II'IIIHI'“IllHI'II‘I‘I'I'I'I'I'I'I'I'II‘HI'I‘H'I'I'I'IIIed

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Patient Maul—F Accession #: _
Med. Rec.#: 1 Visit #: Service Date! 7
DOB: P Sex: Male Received:

l

Soc. Sec. #: Location: ’ Client: -
Physician(s): _
'

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left kidney, partial nephrectomy: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, 4.8 cm; see
comment.

B. Left kidney, base margin, biopsy: Medullary renal tissue, no tumor seen.

C. Left kidney, lower renal lesion, excision:

1. Fibrous capsule with chronic inﬂammation, no tumor seen.
2. Perinephric fat, no tumor seen.

D. Left kidney, perihilar tissue, partial nephrectomy: Adipose tissue, no tumor seen.
E. Left kidney, perinephric fat, partial nephrectomy: Adipose tissue, no tumor seen.
F. Left kidney, cyst wall, biopsy: Necrotic debris, no tumor seen.

G. Left kidney, lower renal lesion, excision: Portion of epithelial-lined cyst with necrotic
debris, no tumor seen. 13,3303

y ‘ M44114
19112125121123 was discussed with '_ WW3
Kidney 'nunor Synoptic Comment S 12 095% ms 6 CO 1/ C,

-Histo!ogic type: Renal cell carcinoma, papillary (chromophil) type.

:mufn tumor diameter: 4.8 cm. (afLDEQlé’O/i L]

~81te within kidney: Upper pole.
Jun-1 pelvis: Not present.
Mister: Not present.

h Page 1 or:

 

a ‘

-Renal sinus: Not present.

Jillar renal veins: Not present.

-Intrarena1 veins and lymphatics: Normal, no tumor.

-Adrena1 gland: Not present.

—Capsnle/perirenal fat: Tumor does not penetrate capsule.

Jillar lymph nodes (number positive] number of nodes): No lymph nodes present.
-Reseetion margins: Negative.

-Proximity to nearest margin: 0.1 cm.

-8tage: pTlNXMX.

«Additional comments: The majority of the tumor demonstrates Fuhrman grade 2 nuclei. However,
occasional grade 3 nuclei are seen, rendering a ﬁnal designation of grade 3.

 

Specimen(s) Received
A:Left renal mass (F5)
B:Base margin (FS)
CzLower renal lesion (FS)
D:Perihilar tissue
E:Perinehric fat

F:Cyst wall

GzRenai lesion

Intraoperatlve Diagnosis A
F81 W, partial nephrectomy: Renal cell carcinoma with papillary features. '

F82 (B) Kidney, base margin, biOpsy: Benign renal tissue. “ ﬂ

FS3 (C) Lower renal lesion excision: Fibrous wall with chronic inﬂammation and hemosiderin; no tumor
seen' ~

Clinical History
The patient is wear—old man who undergoes resection of a complex renal cyst in the left upper pole.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Parts A—C are received fresh from the Operating Room. Parts D-G are received in formalin.

Part A, additionally labeled "left renal mass PS," consists of a pole of kidney measuring 5.0 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm,
with attached perinephric fat, 7.0 x 6.8 x 5.5 cm, and weighing 181 gm. The kidney contains a
well-encapsulated, cystic lesion measuring 4.8 x 4.2 x 2.0 cm, and containing friable, brown-yellow
material. The capsule appears intact, is white and ﬁbrous, and ranges from 0.2 to 0.4 cm. The mass
extends to 0.1 cm of the surgical resection margin and does not appear to extend through the capsule at
any point, or into the perinephric fat. The small rim of non—neoplastic renal tissue is red-brown and grossly
unremarkable. No calaceal or collecting system tissue is seen. The perinephric fat surrounding the kidney
is yellow-tan and is received partially dissected from the kidney, such that the relationship of the tumor to
the surgical plane (pcrinephric fat margin) cannot be adequately determined. Extensive examination of the
perinephric fat reveals no focal nodules or lymph nodes. The kidney resection margin is inked black. A
representative section of the cystic mass is submitted for frozen section 1, with the frozen section remnant
submitted in cassette A1. Additional representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes A2-A3: Tumor with resection margin.
Cassettes A4-A5: Additional tumor with capsule.
Casgettes A6-A7: Perinephric fat.

Part B, additionally labeled "base margin FS," consists of a single, irregularly shaped fragment of

pink-brown tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is frozen for
frozen section 2, with the remnant submitted in cassette Bl.

 

m Page 2 of 3

_ 95‘

Part C, additionally labeled ”lower renal lesion FS," consists of a cup-shaped piece of fatty tissue weighing
157 gm and measuring 5.6 x 4.5 x 2.8 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen consists mostly of
unremarkable, pink-yellow-brown, fatty tissue. The concave area, presumably representing the side
nearest the kidney, contains a central cup-shaped, ﬁbrous, yellowprange lesion, consistent with cyst wall,
measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. This lesion is located 2.0 cm to the nearest surgical
margin. A representative section of the cyst wall is submitted for frozen section 3, with the frozen section
remnant submitted in cassette CI. The remaining cyst wall is entirely submitted in cassettes C2-C7. A
single section corresponding the nearest approach to the outer margin is submitted in cassette C8.

Part D, additionally labeled "peri-hilar tissue,” consists of a single, irregularly shaped fragment of
yellow-tan, fatty tissue measuring 3.8 x 3.0 x 0.3 cm in greatest dimension. The outside aspect is inked,
and the Specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes Dl-D4.

Part E, additionally labeled “perinephric fat," consists of multiple, irregularly shaped fragments of
yellow-tan, adipose tissue measuring 9.0 x 6.0 x 3.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is examined, and only
a single ﬁrm, ﬁbrous area, measuring 0.3 cm in greatest dimension, is identified. The specimen is
unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes El-E2, with the ﬁbrous lesion in El.

Part F, additionally labeled "cyst wall," consists of a single, irregularly shaped fragment of firm, brown-tan
tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette Fl.

Part G, additionally labeled "lower renal lesion," consists of four, irregularly shaped fragments of
brown-pink, friable, soft tissue measuring 2.6 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
entirely submitted in cassettes G l-GZ.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

~Pathology Resident athol lst
Electronically sign out on

[w

umor Site

Case is

Reviewer

 

 

