      
  

 

11:1.stW-n-mrzwr-r.~:cur—unnuammvam‘gsm v- aver ‘rxvu '2 a- n “W :r Isrrlkh'J "ms-1'» ﬁr‘muf" l m- wzmawwnn un-

Accession Number.- ” Report Status: Amend/Adds
Type: Surgical Pathology

Specimen Type:
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

CASE: “
PATI ENTWM

artial or total resection

  

 

 

*‘ki'k‘k'kdeiti: *****~k***** ICGA_CZ"4860

Resident:
Pathologi

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS :

SPECIMEN LABELED "l. RIGHT KIDNEY“:

RENAL CELL CARCINOMA (14.4 cm),
Fuhrman nuclear grade IV/IV¥”

Tumor invades the perinephric fat and renal pelvisa/
Vascular (venous) and perineural invasion are identified.
Ureteral and'arterial margins are free of tumor.
Renal vein could not be identified in the specimen.
Non-neoplastic kidney will be reviewed and reported in an addendum by

Renal Pathology.

AJCC stage = T4 Nx Mx»“
Immunohistochemistry performed at BWH demonstrates the follOwing

staining profile in tumor cells:
Positive ? RCC; EMA

(r

Clear cell typeg/with rhabdoid features,

3e

SPECIMEN LABELED "2. VENA CAVA TUMOR THROMBUS":
METASTATIC RENAL CELL CARCINOMA.M/

CLINICAL DATA:

History. None given.

Operation- Right radical nephrectomy;/
Operative Findings: None given.
Clinical Diagnosis: Right renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/1. Right kidney with tumor {take to Pathology for Tissue Bank).

8/2. Vena caval tumor thrombus.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patient?s

name and unit number.

Part A, "R kidney", consists of a 1072 gram mass, encased in peritoneum (19 x
10 x 0.9 Cm) with an exposed portion of ? renal artery (0.6 Cm in length x 0.5
cm in diameter) and possible urethral stump (0.1 cm in length x 1.9 cm in
diameter). The urethral (?) stump is thick and appears completely involved by
tumor (note: this might be vein, but impossible to tell). The urethral margin
is inked blue. The arterial margin (?) is taken on face and inked orange. The
mass is bisected along_the poesible ureter to reveal a yellow/white, lobulated,
slightly hemorrhagic_solid mass (14.4 x 9.6 x 7.0 cm) occupying most of the
kidney. There is very little visible normal renal Cortex and no distinct
cortical medullary junction. The mass extends to the urethral resection margin

and abuts the renal capsule but does appear to extend into the fat (there is a
There is a cystic cavity (1.0 x

thin 0.8 cm rim of fat surrounding the kidney).

1.0 x 0.9 cm) within.the tumor. Six sections of t e tumor are sub ' e to
Tumor Bank as Tl—TG. Half of T1 is also Sent forWh
section of the normal cortex is sent for Tumor Bank an « e .

Normal medulla (?)-is sent to Tumor Bank. Photographs are taken.

Micro A1: T1 Quitkfix. 1 frag! '

Micro A2: Arterial margin (?), rag, . -

Micro A3: Urethral vs vascular {?) margin, 1 frag,

Micro A4-A5:-Tumor inVasion into urethra vs vasculature (?), bisected, 2 frags4

----- ac. Tnmnr invading into ? vessel and soft tissue margin (inked blue), 1

 

:ﬂg.‘ man um: «.11: - urnan'tntaprurua *‘v:.1~.-H.-‘:ri awn- z. unrest-am --.'.

Jameson :22 nan-wars: :4 .-.~ £20153} m. an mews-e .uru our: xe-

/ . . .v.
, "7 frag -. _ ’t‘xiﬂgﬁm|mp
Micro AV—Aa: Tumor invading into arterial margin (ﬂﬁed, 2 frags,-

 
 

Micro A9: Tumor and capsule and perirenal fat, 1 ﬁre
Micro A10: Tumor and adjacent normal kidney, 1 frag,
Micro A11: Normal kidney, 1 frag,

Part B, "#2 Vena caval tumor thrombus", consists of a tumor mass (3.2 x 1“whit“...MT“m
1.5 cm) with attached fibrovascular tissue (2.8 x 1.2 x 0-5 cm). Thﬁwpg§§$§$gﬁw.wgg
fibrovascular tissue is inked black.

Micro 131—82: Vena caval tumor thrombus, 2 frags, -

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)

related thereto.

Resident Review by
Final Diagnosis by

ADDENDUM
RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF NON—NEOPLASTIC KIDNEY PARENCHYM-

RIGHT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

DIFFUSE INTERSTITIAL FIBROSIS AND TUBULAR ATROPHY, MOST LIKELY SECONDARY
TO CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE UROPATHY AND POSSIBLY VENOUS DESTRUCTION

(SEE NOTE)
ARTERIAL AND HYALINE ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS, MODERATE (SEE NOTE}

NOTE :
Only minimal non~neoplastic kidney parenchyma was available for examination due

to the extensive replacement of nephrons by the neoplastic process. The sample
of non—neoplastic kidney parenchyma examined showed diffuse parenchymal
scarring and moderate vascular sclerosis, but only mild glomerulosclerosis.
These changes are most likely the result of chronic ipsilateral collecting
system obstruction, with a possible contribution by venous obstruction from the
renal vein and inferior vena cava tumor thrombus. If the collecting system and
vascular obstruction were only unilateral, only functional adaptive changes
-(and not the extensive parenchymal scarring seen here) would be expected in the
contralateral kidney. Changes of diabetic glomerulosclerosis are not apparent
in this sample. A potential effect of this patient's remote organochlorine
exposure is not apparent in the tissue but is also unknown.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr. _ Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin—fixed, paraffin—embedded tissue (block All) were evaluated

using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of kidney cortex and medulla. There are eightyuone
glomeruli present, of which six (7.4%) are globally solerosed.' The remaining
glomeruli show hypoperfusion and only minimal and focal expansion of the
mesangial areas. There are only rare discernible craters and double contours
of the glomerular capillary wall basement membranes. Few distal tubules
contain PAS—positive hyaline casts. Tubules show a reduction in size but there
is only focal thickening of the basement membranes. Several tubules (block
A10) show microcystic changes resembling thyroidization of the cortical
parenchyma. The interstitium is diffusely expanded and appears markedly
fibrotic without prominent inflammatory activity. Over 90% Of the cortical
parenchyma shows tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. Arteries exhibit a
moderate degree of sclerosis with some foam cell accumulation. Arterioles show
moderate sclerosis with focal and segmental hyaline degeneration. '

'4'~r'n-*:r: .-.-.--v:

 

 

 

:v. (7*m'rr‘ll";:"¥:\ 1!r*r1xr.}7n:r an»: u-"cxfwe.utma:\m:cc ?\}#|' cwzvnicwmnburrm Azasvuanr z.wnwwmguamrrsuma-swwAw. 4-K“-

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

c; . tents—{1105 v

Accession Number: I” Report Status
Type: Cytogenetics

CASE: W

PATIENT-m

KARYOTYPE: 46,XY[10]
METAPHASES COUNTED: 10 ANALYZED: 3 SCORED: 15 BANDING: GTG

INTERPRETATION:

S of 15 metaphase cells were aneuploid, containing 118—126 chromosomes, but the
chromosome morphology in these cells was very poor, and detailed cytogenetic
analyses could not be performed. The remaining 10 metaphase cells were
normal.

COMMENTS:

Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the
standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
RCC

 

