- TCGA-BB—5165

Surgical Pathology Report '
Diagnosis:
A: Adipose tissue overlying tumor, right kidney, removal

- Benign adipose tissue.
- Negative for malignancy.

B: Right kidney, right partial nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell subtype
Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhnnan grade 2 of 4

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.2 cm

Extent of tumor invasion:
Capsular invasionfperirenal adipose tissue: Tumor appears to extend into capsule; perirenal adipose tissue appears

negative for malignancy (See specimen A).

Gerota' s fascia: Negative for malignancy (see specimen A)
Renal vein: Not applicable

Ureter: Not applicable

Venous (large vessel): Not identiﬁed

Lymphatic (small vessel): Not identiﬁed

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative for malignancy
Gerota' s fascia: Negative for malignancy

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Tumor is < 1 mm from the surgical margin of resection.
AICC Staging:

pTla

pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Clinical History:
with a clinical diagnosis of a right renal mass.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "fat over tumor." The container holds a portion of adipose tissue that measures
4.0 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is unoriented. No nodules or masses are identified.

Block summary:
Al-A3 - three representative sections of adipose tissue

Container B is additionally labeled "tumor from right kidney.”
Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: partial right nephrectomy

 

Side of specimen: right

Size and weight of specimen: 14.7 grams; The specimen measures 5.4 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm.
Orientation: Capsule=blue, black=parenchyma/margin of resection

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: absent

Tumor descriptionlsite: renal cortex; The tumor appears yellow in color and is well encapsulated; focal areas of
red/brown discoloration are noted.

Tumor size: 3.2 x 2.1 x 2.3 cm

Presence/absence of multicentricity: absent
Conﬁnementlnon-conﬁnement to the kidney: conﬁned
Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: does not grossly involve
Gerota' s fascia: not present

Renal vein: not present

Ureter: not present

Other organs: not applicable

Surgical margins: The mass directly abuts the blue inked renal capsule and is located 0.1 cm away from the black
inked margin of resection.

Description of kidney away from tumor: tan with no other lesions evident
Lymph nodes (hilar): not applicable

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: none ‘-

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes

Digital photograph taken: no

Block Summary: (Inking: blue=capsule, black=parenchymalmargin of resection)
Bl—B2 - parenchyma margin, bisected

133-88 - three additional sections of tumor (one section every two cassettes)

B9 - representative section of normal parenchyma with transition to tumor

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

 

 

