... rimcmMWW-QWM'W

UUID: C2755FC2- -E4BD- 4997- -BZF9- -1F1C3A9C28AE
TCGA-HC-A9TH-01A-PR

lllllllllllllllIII,llllllllllIllllllllllllllllllll||||ll|||||||||l|

“ "Hm“! muml‘Pm.‘Hlﬂlll'llP'.H.'..‘l‘.'.‘.!'.'.'.Elﬁﬂ'h'h'h'ﬂm

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

13330-3
COPY TO: M — QMDMWKC‘W N05 Willa/6

{UME N053 cal 0:

Ere-Op Diagnosis (y D OHS/£4

Prostate cancer

Post—0p Diagnosis

Nothing indicated

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Received in a single container labeled — prostate,
left and right pelvic lymph nodes, portien of ves deferens" is a
previously sectioned, markedly distorted prostate gland with
attached fragments of apparent seminal vesicles. The specimen is
received after tissue harvest for . Within the specimen
container are three tissue cassettes labeled . The
prostate fragments with apparent attached seminal vesicles weigh as
received 52.5 grams and measure on reconstruction approximately 5.4
x 4.6 x 4,5 cm- The outer surface is markedly shaggy. The cut
surface shows markedly gritty gray tan fibrotic Cut surface with
focal punctahe areas of chalky disceloration extending throughout
the entire distel.and mid region of the epecimen focally into the
proximal area (near the vesical} margin. The urethra appears to be
compressed. This tiesue occupies a total area of approximately 4.5
x 4.0 x 4.9 cm and grossly appears to extend to the apical {dietal}
margin and to several inked lateral margine. The lesion grossly
extends to the seminal vesicles which appear t0 be grossly
fragmented. The portions of the seminal vesicles together are 2.5 x
2.0 x 0.9 cm with lobulated gray ten outer surfaces and melticyetic
gray'tan fibrotic cut surfaces. Also received in the same container
are three elongated tragments of soft gray tan tissue which appear
to be tubular with pinpoint lumen. They measure from 2.0 x 0.4 x
0.4 cm to 3.0 x 0.¢ x 0.4 cm. ADiscrete gxoss lesions are not
identified. Also received in the same container are 5.6 x 5.5 x.1.5
cm ten yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which an palpation and

W. “amp. Maw.-.” ,

 

 

sectioning reveal two poorly defined tan yellow to brown nodules 3.8
and 4.4 cm. Representative sections are submitted as labeled as
follows: A — radial apical (distal) margin, left; B - radial apical
(distal) margin, right; C ~ shave vesicel (proximal) margin; D -
left lateral lobe distal; E - right lateral lobe distal; F ~ left
posterior lobe distal; Q ~ right posterior lobe distal; H — left
lateral lobe mid region; I ~ right lateral lobe mid region; J ~ left
posterior lobe mid region; K — right posterior lobe mid region; L ~
left lateral lobe proximal region; M ~ right lateral lobe proximal
region; N - left posterior lobe proximal region; 0 ~ right posterior
lobe proximal region; P ~ origin of the seminal vesicles; Q ~
representative left seminal vesicle; R ~ representative right
seminal vesicle; 8 ~ representative tubular tissue fragments; T~U _
entire smaller nodule; VsW - entire larger nodule.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled—

Final Diagnosis
Prostate, radical prostateetomy with bilateral pelvic lymph nodes
and portion or vas deferens (resectiony:
Prostate size:
Weight: 52.5 grams.
Size: 5.4 x 4.6 x 4.5 cm.
Lymph node sampling: Bilateral pelvic lymph nodes.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic pattern:
Primary pattern: Grade 5
Secondary pattern: Grade 4
Tertiary pattern: Grade 5
Total Gleason score: 9
Tumor quantitation;
Proportion of prostate involved by tumor: Approximately 90%.
Extraprostatic extension; See comment.
Seminal vesicle invasion: Present, bilateral.
Surgical margins: Adenocarcinoma extends to the apical, bladder
neck and multiple soft tissue
margins.
Lymphvascular invasion: Not identified.
Perineural invasion: Present, extensive.
Pathologic stage: pTBb NO
Number of lymph hoses examined: Two (right and left pelvic nodes)‘
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (9/2).
other:

Portion of vas deferens demonstrating involvement by carcinoma.
PAS 9 SPCwA

w. m.”

1

GET: 88309, 88305 x 3

Comments
i Histologie sections demonstrate extensive involvement by high grade

prostatic adehooaroinoma. Much of the prostate is replaced by tumor.
Prominent areas of oribriforming are noted; multiple areas of single
cells infiltrating through the stroma are also present. ExtensiVe
involvement of the seminal vesicles {both right and lair) is seen;
tumor extension to multiple soit tissue margins of resection,
including along perineural tracts; is seen. Involvement of both the

”3”“ mwm~mm*ggigal as well as bladder neck margins is seen. Clinical correlation

M‘WV' ~

 

 

., u“ «Magwﬁm «.1. kW“- m~mmmo~~ .. ~ ~
m, . . n M». .wm\ um.“ um.» 4.”-.mm»

and correlation with intraoperative findings is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist for quality assurance
purposes, these slides have been additionally reviewed by Dr.
who concurs with the diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at

<Sign Out Dr. Signature)

>vav~r w; . » 4w.“ w," , . Wm“ ”WNW,“

 

