 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Patient Name:

     

Med. Rec. #:

DOB: Date of Receipt:

Gender: Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account ti:

Patient Address: Biliieg Type:
Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

 

 

Clinical Diadnosls & Historv:
History of metastatic RCC.

Sgeclmens Submitted:
1: Kidney and eaten, left nephractomy and iartial colectomy

2: SP: Ceion. left. segmental resection

3: Lyph nodes, para-aeriic. excision

4: Adrenal and lymph nedes, ieit and suprahilar. excision
5: Lymph nodes, interaortecaval. excision

 

 

DIAG N OSiS:
1. Kidney and colon, left nephreetemy and partial colectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal celt carcinoma - Ccnventienal (clear cell) type
with focal sarccmetoid features. Tumor shows large areas of necrosis and ﬁbrosis (grossly, 50-60% of the tumor

is viable)

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade lV/iV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 16,5 cm.

Lecai Invasion (for renal cortical types):
involves Garcia’s fascia
Extends into renal pelvis
involves renal sinus fat
and invades into adherent colonic wall.

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed
Small vessel angiclymphatic invasion is identiﬁed.

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Nen-Neeptastlc Kidney:
Fecal interstitiat chronic inﬂammation

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nudes:
Net identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinoma/oncocytoma:
pT4 Tumor invades beyond Garcia‘s fascia

 

Page 1 0M

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Comment: Immunostains for 0010 end Carbonic Anhydrose 1X support the above interpretation.

2. SP: Colon, Eelt, segmental resectio-

Benign segment of colon.
Omentum. negative for tumor.
Four lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/4)

3. Lyph nodes, para-aortic, excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Number of nodes sxamined:17
Number of metastatic nodeszt
The largest metastatic node ls 6cm
Perinodel (extracapsuiar) extension identified
The metastatic renal cell carcinoma measures approximately 3 mm in maximum diameter.
Comment: Immunostains for AE’iiAE3; 0010 and Carbonic Anhydrase lX Support the above interpretation.

4. Adrenal and lymph nodes, left and supreitllar, excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examinedt3
Benign adrenal gland

5. Lymph nodes, Interaortoceval, excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examinedz2

lAWTES'F THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSlS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EMMINATION OF Ti'iE SHOES {ANDFOR OTttER MATERlAt), AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THlS REPORT. I

 

 

S scial Studies:

Result Special Stein Comment
cn-rx.
CDtO
NEG CONT
lMM RECUT
AE1:AE3
CD‘lO
CA~1X.
NEG CONT
lMM RECUT

1).The specimen is received fresh labeled "left kidney and left scion" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels,
perinephric fat and segment of colon weighing 1373 g in totet. The kidney measures 21 x 11.5 x 9 cm. The attached ureter
measures to cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter. The aiteched renal vein measures 0.6 cm in tength and 2.0 cm in diameter.
The renal vessels and ureter margins are grossty unremarkable. A segment of colon measuring 11 cm in length by 4 cm in

Gross Descrigtion:

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

diameter, is adhered to the kidney. The serossl surface is piriietan and smooth. No adrenal gland is grossly identiﬁed. The

kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a solid mass with a heterogeneous cut surface measuring 16.5 x 13 x 8 cm. replacing

the entire upper pole of the kidney. The mass is lobulated, with a dark red to bright yellow to tan and locally gelatinous cut surface.

Large areas of hemorrhage and necrosis are identiﬁed. However, 50- 60% of the tumor appears grossly viable. The mass extends

through the capsule to grossly involve the colonic serosa and wall. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pint:

brown parenchyme, with a well—deﬁned cortico-rnedullaryjunction. The cortex measures 0.6 cm and the calyces appear normal.
ph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephrlc fat. The specimen is photographed. Representative sections are submitted for
nd for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

UVM -- ureterai and vessel margins

T-- tumor

TE -- tumor extending through capsule
TC - tumor with involvement of colon wall
THF» tumor with tiller fel

TSF -- tumor with sinus lat

TK -~ tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections
K ~- representative sections kidney

CM — colon margins

 

2). The specimen is received fresh labeled, "segment left colon", and consists of segment of large bowel measuring 12.9 cm long
with an open circumference averaging 7.2 cm. The serosal suitece is ten pink and grossly unremarkable. The specimen is
opened to reveal colonic wall thickness of 0.3 cm and congested mucosa. No ulceration or any masses grossly identiﬁed.
Multiple lymph nodes identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. Attached portion of cmentum measures 12.0 x
8.0 x 0.5 cm and is grossly unremarkable. Representative sections submitted.

Summary of sections:

OM - one and margin

0PM - opposite and margin
RS - representative sections
LN . lymph nodes

0 - omentum

3), The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Para—aortic lymph nodes “ and consists of multiple pink tan firm lymph nodes
ranging from t to 6 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN ~~ lymph nodes

BLN» bisected lymph node
QLquuadrisecied largest lymph node

4). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left adrenal suprahilar lymph nodes) it consist of an unoriented portion of
ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring? x 3 x 3 cm. The specimen weighs 33.5grams alter ﬁxation. The specimen is inked in black and
serially sectioned to reveal a golden orange ill defined adrenal gland with attached adipose tissue measuring 5x 2.6 x 0.7cm. Cut
sections reveal a centrally located cavity containing a yellow soft material. Five possible lymph node are identified measuring 1cm
in average dimension. Representative sections are submitted. The specimen has been photographed.

Summary of sections:
A ~ adrenal
PLN-possibte lymph nodes

5). The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "lntereortocaval lymph nodes" and consists of two pink ten iirrn lymph nodes
measuring 1 and 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN -- lymph node

 

Page 3 of 4

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

BLN-- bisected £ymph node

Summary; of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney and colon, left nephrectomy and pariiai colectomy

Block Sect. Site PBS
2 cm 2

1 k ‘1

“E rp 1

7 t 7

1 to 1

'1 ta 1

2 fhf 2

1 tk ‘E

4 tsf 4

1 uvm 1
Part 2: SP: Colon, left, segmental resection-
Biock Sect. Site P03
1 LN 1

1 O “i

’1 GM 1

1 0PM 1

2 RS 2

Part 3: Lyph nodes, para-aortic, excision

Stock Sect. Site P03
2 BLN 2

4 LN 13
2 QLN 4

Part 4: Adrenal and lymph nodes, left and suprahilar, excision

Blosk Sect. Site P03
4 A 7
2 PLN 4

Part 5: Lymph nodes, interaortocavai, excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
‘t BLN 2
“i LN 1

 

Page 4 0f 4

END OF REPORT

 

