 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right renal mass

Source of Specimen(s):
1: Peri renal fat
2: Rt. Renal Mass

Gross Descu'ption:
Part 1

Source of Tissue: Right Perinephric Fat

Gross Description: The specimen is received fresh labeled Right
Perinephric Fat and consists of multiple soft yellow tan, irregular
fibrofatty tissue fragments, measun'ng 25 x 18 x 8.5 cm. The specimen is
sectioned to show a soft yellow, thin fibrofatty cut surface with no
obvious discrete masses present. Representative sections are submitted in

1A through 1C.

Part 2
Source of Tissue: Right Renal Mass Stitch marks deep surface

Gross Description: The specimen is received fresh labeled Right Renal Mass
Stitch marks deep surface and consists of a well encapsulated, firm mass
measuring 3.3 x 3 x 2 cm. The orientation suture is identified. The deep
margin is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a

golden yellow, soft cut surface. The lesion comes within less than 0.1 cm
of the deep margin. The attached perinephiic fat measures 8.5 x 5.5 x 4

cm. The perinephric fat is sectioned to show a homogenous, soft yellow
thin fibrofatty cut surface. Representative section of the deep margin

with Closest tumor is frozen in ZFS. Additional random sections of the
specimen are submitted in 2A through 2B.

2A, 213 with remainder of deep margin closest to tumor
2C Tumor of closest capsule
2D Perinephric fat

  

Final Diagnosis:
1. Right perinephlic fat:

 

- No tumor seen.
2. Right renal mass excision.
— Renal celT‘carcinoma, conventional clear cell type, - grade 2,
(3. 3 I/cgn); /
( Resection margin free of tomor.
— Tumor confined to the kidney.
- Non-neoplastic tissue with moderate arteriolonephrosclerosis.

— pTla NX Mx

FCGTL: ChromolS, Chrom45, Interp
Procedures/Addenda

FC Cytogenetics Solid

Results—Comments
CYTOGENET 1C ANALYSIS REPORTS

DIAGNOSIS: Right Renal Mass

KARYOTYPE: Abnormal mosaic. karyotype:

56
70<3n>,XX,—Y,—3,+5,+7,-9,+11,+12,—13,-14,—15,+16[cpl7]/46,XY[3]

RESULTS: The renal mass was harvested after nine days in culture. The
chromosomes from twenty metaphases were counted and analyzed, and four of
these metaphases were karyotyped by Cir—banding. Seventeen cells had
between 56 and 70 chromosomes and contained multiple numerical
abnormalities described above. Of particular significance were the loss

of chromosome 3 and gain of chromosome 5, findings that are consistent

with the diagnosis of clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Three cells had a

modal number of 46 chromosomes and appeared to have a normal karyotype.

 

