fab-O—B

M23
Ewe/s

@199!

9%) [weal/3

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure:

Diagnosis

Colon, ileocolectomy:

Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the transverse colon
invasive through muscular wall into attached greater omentum (pT3)
Metastatic adenocarcinoma in l of 60 lymph nodes (le)

Extranodal tumor present UUID- 38663“ IBAB-
. 486
Serosal adheSions TCGA --A6 ASZU ajt-IAQC'IS-13E82896726e6d

$553231in”:::‘gi::°:::a::::Sm Illllllllllllllllllllllllll
mmml IImumMfﬂfl'ﬁ'.‘.‘€ﬂh'”"‘HEP”"”'”"

ll
3:32:33 Zijgiii‘giiﬁ‘performed. I“ ”Ill”lllllllHllIlmlllllllllllmlm m "HM"

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): Invasive through muscularis propria of transverse
colon into attached greater omentum (pT3)

Proximal margin: Negative

Distal margins: Negative

Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative

Distance of tumor from closes margin: 8 cm from distal margin
Vascular invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): One 60 lymph nodes is positive for
metastatic tumor (le)

Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present

Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable (pMX)

Other findings: Serosal adhesions. Clinical obstruction. Appendix
with serosal adhesions. No specific additional pathologic
abnormalities identified the colon or the ileum.

MSI testing: Ordered on block A2

Pathologic stage T3Nl IIIB

Specimen
Right hemicolectomy

Clinical Information
Transverse colon cancer with Clinical obstruction

Gross Description

Received fresh labeled "right hemicolectomy" is a previously unopened
40 cm segment of proximal right colon with attached 15 cm of distal
ileum and an abundant amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery, and
omentum. An unremarkable 9 cm appendix averaging 0.5 cm in diameter is
present. The proximal and distal margins measure 5.2 and 7.8 cm in
circumference respectively. On opening, there is a circumferential,
6.0 x 3.9 cm rubbery tan—whiteered tumor mass which is 8 cm from the
distal margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2
cm, grossly extending through the muscularis and into the attached
mesocolon. The tumor is present within 0.2 cm of the inked free radial
serosal surface and visually appears to extend into the attached
omentum. A 3 cm in greatest dimension area of tan red discoloration is
noted within the distal ileum, 5 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve.
The remaining ileal and colonic mucosa is unremarkable tan—pink with
regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. A portion of tumor and a
portion of normal colonic mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement
as requested. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery tan~pink tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm are recovered from the
attached mesocolon and mesentery. RS 21

Summary: 1 — margins, 2 through 4 — tumor to inked free radial serosal
surface (cassettes 3 and 4 including attached omentum), 5 and 6 -
central tumor, 7 — discolored area of ileum, 8 - ICV, 9 and 10 the
random from remainder of colon, ll — appendix, 12 through 18 — 8 lymph
nodes per cassette, 19 ~ 6 lymph nodes, 20 and 21 — 1 bisected lymph
node per cassette

 

