SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
ALA / ﬂ , 3

WWW, W, N45 3971/3
gem, WW c547 /

Case Number : [/3’/”
,4“

Diagnosis:
A: Soft tissue, right pelvic lymph nodes, removal
- Eleven lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/11).

 

B: Soft tissue, left pelvic lymph nodes, removal
- 1 out of 6 lymph nodes show metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/6) (86, B7).

AIDS-AE28-C2FCC92F9A94

C: Soft tissue, right periaortic lymph nodes, removal WI“=$1§:f:§‘.’kiéi-m-n Illuulﬁllelﬁifﬁmd

- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/8). lllllllll llllulllulllll
|I““iii“:l‘l‘ll‘llli‘l|lllll|lllll|l|l|ll ll llIllIllIllllllIllllll ll‘l|

D: Soft tissue. left periaortic lymph nodes. removal lll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

- Three lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/3).
E: Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
Location of tumor: endometrium

Histologic type: mixed adenocarcinoma, predominantly serous (80%) and endometrioid (20%)

‘

 

 

 

Histologic grade (FIGO): overall FIGO Grade 3 (architectural grade 3, nuclear grade 3)

Extent Of invasion:

Myometrial invasion: outer half

Depth: 1.3 cm Wall thickness: 2.2 cm J
Percent: 59% (E5, E6)

Serosal involvement: absent

Lower uterine segment involvement: absent

Cervical involvement: present (E3)

Adnexal involvement (see below): absent

Other sites: not applicable

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: free of tumor (1.6 cm away)

Lymphovascular Space Invasion: Focal tumor within the cervix is suspicious for lymphovascular invasion (E3) (see
comment).

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):
Total number involved: 1
Total number examined: 28

Other Pathologic findings: none

Tumor estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) immunohistochemistry results: Pending; final results will
be issued in an addendum report (E5).

AJCC Pathologic stage: pT1b pN1 pr
FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: lllC1

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- No tumor seen.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- No tumor seen.

COMMENT:
An immunostain for vascular endothelial marker Factor VlllRA is being performed to assess for lymphovascular invasion.
Additional findings will be issued in an addendum report.

Clinical History:
with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and holds a 5.2 x 5.0 x 1.5 cm fragment of yellow Iobulated
adipose tissue". Within the fragment there are multiple lymph node candidates measuring up to 5.0 cm. The lymph
node candidates are sampled in 10 cassettes, A1-A10.

e

‘ Block Summary:
A1 - Multiple lymph node candidates
A2 - One lymph node candidate
A3 - One lymph node candidate, bisected
A4 - One lymph node candidate
A5-A6 - One lymph node candidate, bisected
A7-A10 - Lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

Container B is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and holds a 5.5 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm fragment of yellow Iobulated
adipose tissue“. Within the fragment there are multiple lymph node candidates measuring up to 2.5 cm. The lymph
node candidates are submitted in Bl—B8, per block summary.

Block Summary:

Bl - One lymph node candidate

BZ - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
83 - Two lymph node candidates

B4-BS - One lymph node candidate, bisected
86-37 - One lymph node candidate, bisected

B8 - One lymph node candidate, bisected

Container C is additionally labeled "right periaortic lymph node" and holds a 5.3 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm fragment of yellow
Iobulated adipose tissue. Within the fragment, there area multiple lymph node candidates measuring up to 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates are submitted in 7 cassettes C1-C7 per block summary.

Block Summary:

C1 - Multiple lymph node candidates

C2 - Multiple lymph node candidates

C3 - One lymph node candidate bisected

C4-C5 — One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
C6—C7 - One lymph node candidate, bisected

Container Dis additionally labeled "left periaortic lymph node" and holds a 3.5 x 3.3 x 1.2 cm fragment of yellow
Iobulated adipose tissue. Within the fragment, there area multiple lymph node candidates measuring up to 2.2 cm in
greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates are submitted in 5 cassettes D1-D5 per block summary.

Block Summary:

D1 - Two lymph node candidates

02-03 - One lymph node candidate, bisected
D4—D5 - One lymph node candidate, bisected

Container E is received in one appropriately labeled container.
Adnexa: Present

Weight: 49 grams
Shape: Pear shaped

Dimensions:

height: 8.5 cm

anterior to posterior width: 3.6 cm

breadth at fundus: 5.1 cm

Serosa: Tan/pink with focal erythema

Cervix: 3.5 x 3.2 cm with a 1.1 cm patent 05
length of endocervical canal: 3.7 cm
ectocervix: Tan/white with focal erythema
endocervix: Tam and trabeculated
Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 3.6 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 2.6 cm
tumor findings:

dimensions: 3.2 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm

appearance: Tan soft and exophytic

location and extent: At the dome involving both the anterior and posterior walls
myometrial invasion: No apparent invasion

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: Beneath mass 1.8 cm, adjacent to mass 1.7 cm

other findings or comments: The remainder of the endometrium is unremarkable. Within the myometrium at the dome,
there is a 1.1 cm in greatest dimension tan rubbery nodule.

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm

external surface: Tan and smooth

cut surface: Tan, firm and unremarkable

Right fallopian tube: Fimbriated

dimensions: 5 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter

other ﬁndings: Along the outer surface there are multiple thin-walled cysts, ranging from <0.1 up to 0.6 cm. The cysts
are filled with yellow cloudy fluid. The remainder of the outer surface is unremarkable. On section, the lumen is patent.
Left ovary:

dimensions: 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm

external surface: Tan and smooth

cut surface: Tan, firm and unremarkable

Left fallopian tube: Fimbriated

dimensions: 4.5 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter

other findings: Notable for multiple thin-walled cysts, ranging from 0.2 to up to 0.9 cm. The cysts are ﬁlled with yellow
cloudy fluid. The remainder of the outer surface is unremarkable. On section, the lumen is patent.

Lymph nodes: See parts A-D.

Other comments: None
Digital photograph taken: None

Tissue submitted for special investigations:

Block'Summary:

' E1—E2 - Cervix lower uterine segment, anterior, bisected
E3-E4 - Cervix lower uterine segment, posterior, bisected
E5-E6 - Tumor, full thickness, anterior wall
E7 - Tumor, full thickness, posterior wall
E8 - Myometrial nodule, full thickness
E9-E10 - Right ovary and tube, respectively
E11-E12 - Left ovary and tube, respectively

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: l have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum

lmmunostains for ER and PR are performed on a representative block of endometrial tumor (E5). The tumor is ER
negative (1+, <1%) and PR negative (0). In addition, an immunostain for the vascular endothelial marker Factor VIII
related antigen is performed on a section of the cervix (E3) with foci suspicious for lymphovascular invasion.
Lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed, which is confirmed on the immunostain.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed
as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

x l - _ ._ . Laboratories. These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Fodd and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval IS not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for

research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as
qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

