  
 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

BGA—AK—3426

Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right renal mass

Source of Speci1nen(s):

A: inter aorto caval Lymph Nodes

B: right kidney adrenal gland hilar lymph nodes
C: Retrocaval lymph nodes

D: Additional retrocaval lymph nodes

Gross Description:
Received in four parts.

Source of Tissue: l. Labeled #1, Inter—aortocaval iymph node .

Frozen Section Diagnosis: lFS DIAGNOSIS DEFERRED, ? Bil-ETASTASIS VERSUS
PRIMARY TUMOR IN LYNIPH VERSUS lNTRANODAL VASCULAR
PROLIFERATION,

Gross Description: Received fresh for frozen section evaluation is a
2.5cm in greatest dimension, tan—pink, firm lymph node which is sectioned
to reveal bulging, nodular, cut surfaces. A representative section is
submitted for frozen section evaluation and the frozen section residue is
submitted in one block. Additional representative sections are submitted

in two blocks.
Designation of Sections: 1FS, lA—IB
Summary of Sections: multiple

Note: Tissue is submitted for microbiology cultures.

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2, Right kidney, adrenal gland and hilar
lymph nodes . a

Frozen Section Diagnosis: ZFS RENAL CELL CARCINOMA PRESENT. THE

FROZEN
SECTION FROM PART #1 WAS RIB—REVIEWED AFTER LOOKING AT THE

FROZEN SECTION
FROM THE KIDNEY. THAT IS METASTATIC CANCER FROM KIDNEY AND

LYMPH NODE.

Gross Description: Received fresh for frozen section evaluation is an 879
gram, right nephrectomy, having an abundant amount of attached perinephric
fat. There is a 1.5 x 0.3cm fragment of attached ureter, having a lumen,
0.20m in greatest dimension which is probe patent to the renal hilum. The
kidney itself is 16.0 x 6.5 x 5.0cm in greatest dimension. It is bivalved

to reveal an 8.5 x 7.5 x 6.00m mass in the mid to lower pole, having light

tan to golden yellow-orange, nodular, cut surfaces. A representative

Section of the mass is submitted for frozen section evaluation and the

frozen section residue is submitted in one block. The remaining renal

 

parenchyma is red—brown, firm, having a well-defined corticomedullary
junction. The adrenal gland is 4.5 x 2.0 x 0.80m in greatest dimension
and is sectioned to reveal golden yellow-orange to tan-brown, cut
snifaces. There is one palpable lymph node in the attached hilar soft
tissue, 2.0cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node is entirely
submitted. Representative sections are submitted in twelve blocks.

Designation of Sections: ZFS frozen section kidney mass, 2A ureter and
vascular margins, 213-21) tumor with inked circumferential margin, ZE—ZF
additional representative sections tumor, 2G~2H random sections kidney,
21 adrenal gland, 21—21. hilar lymph node, ZM— additional ureteral
margin.

Summary of Sections: multiple

Note: Tissue is submitted for cytogenetic studies.

aeaasaaaaaaaaaeea*aaaea*aaaaaaaaeaaaa*eaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeaaa

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled #3, Retrocaval lymph nodes .
Gross Description: Received fresh are two red~purple, ﬁrm lymph nodes,

4.00m in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
five blocks.

Designation of Sections: 3A~3B one lymph node, 3C—3E one lymph node

Summary of Sections: multiple

Source of Tissue: 4. Labeled #4, Additional retrocaval lymph nodes .

Gross Description: Received fresh are six tan to red—purple, firm lymph
nodes, 0.8 to 5.5cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are sectioned
to reveal red—purple to tan, soft, f1iable, cut surfaces. Representative
sections are submitted in five blocks.

Designation of Sections: 4A—4B representative sections large lymph node,
4C one lymph node, 4D-4E multiple single lymph nodes.

Summary of Sections: multiple

asassassaasaeaseaaaaaaeaaaaaaaa*aaaaaa*aaeasaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeaaasaaaaaaaa

Final Diagnosis:
1. Lymph node, inter—aortocaval, excision:
— Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in one lymph node (111).

2. Right kidney, adrenal gland and hilar lymph nodes, radical
nephrectomy:

 

”MW-W
— High grade renal cell CEI'CIT@ (8.5 cmlyngclear grade 3; see note.
-« Negative capsule and vasculat'm'argin.

— Ureteral margin with intralymphatic tumor emboli.

- Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in peri hilar soft tissue.

- Adrenal gland with no tumor seen.

3. Lymph nodes, retrocava], excision:
— Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in two out of two lymph nodes (2/2).

4. Lymph nodes, retrocaval, excision:
— Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in three out of seven lymph nodes (3/7).

Note: The tumor morphologically shows clear cell and papillary features,
with focal spindled cells suggestive of sarcomatoid change.
Immunohistochemistry stains show that the tumor cells are positive for
CK7, HIMW cytokeratin -) and CD10. Final subtyping is pending
cytogenetic analysis.

These tests were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the immunohistochemistry laboratory at the

. These tests have not been cleared or approved by the US. Food
and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or
approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes.
They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of - (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
testing.

Procedures/Addenda
FC Cytogenetics

Results~Comrnents a
CYTOGENETIC ANALYSIS REPORTS
KARYOTYPE:
Abnormal mosaic - karyotype: 36—44,XY,del(3)(p21p25),—8[cp20]
I46,XY[1]

RESULTS:

A renal mass was received and harvested after six and seven days in
culture.

The chromosomes from 21 metaphases were counted and analyzed, and five
of these metaphases were karyotyped by G~banding Twenty cells had
chromosome numbers ranging from 36 to 44 and exhibited two clonal
aberrations: a deletion in the p arm of chromosome 3 and a missing copy
of

chromosome 8. Both of these abnormalities have been reported in cases of
nonpapillary renal cell carcinoma. One cell had a normal karyotype. A
preliminary report was given to

 

