UUID : 7AEAFE554459-4795-3602JESETGSGDESB
TCGA- EM-AZPZ-OlA-PR

Ill
llllllllllllllll
Ill llllllllllllllllllllll||||||| llllllllllllllllllllllllll

Red
llllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
III II llllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllll lll llll

acted
lll

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient
Name:
MRN:
DOB:
Gender:
HCN:
Ordering
MD:
Copy To:

Service:
Visit #:
Location:
Facility:

M

Accession #:
Collected:

Recs». .

Rep:

   

 

Specimenls) Received

 

1. Thyroid: Total Thyroid, long stitch-right superior, short stitch-left superior, double long stitch-central neck

Diagnosis

:

m

Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant 5.0 cm, mixed follicular, solid and trabecular patterns,
right; follicular adenoma 1.0cm with degeneration and cytologic atypia, left: Thyroid

No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 5
- Total thyroidectomy specimen. See Comment.

Comment

The dominant tumor is a 5.0 cm papillary carcinoma with mixed architectural patterns inclUding
follicular, solid and trabecular. Tumor is seen in vascular spaces around this tumor but there is
no associated ﬁbrin reaction. These ﬁndings are highly suspicious for vascular invasion, but not
diagnostic of it. The 0.5cm papillary microcarcinoma in the left lobe shows psammoma body
formation and is likely responsible for a region of psammomatous dissemination of thyroid tumor
seen in the left lobe. Some psammoma bodies are seen in lymphatic spaces in the left lobe.

However, all lymph nodes examined are negative for carcinoma.

Synoptic Data
Procedure: Total thyroidectomy
Received: Fresh
Specimen integrity: Intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
5.5 cm
4.5 cm
2.6 cm
Left lobe:
5.7 cm
3.1 cm
0.9 cm

Isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:

/CA , 0 ’ 5
i ~11 . eolltculcw
5W, W?" 9 “(NM/W emf—3

\ﬂ‘ﬁ: MW'L; ”05 675 ’9
la)
i/J‘fl"

3.2 cm

2.7 cm
0.8 cm
Specimen Weight: 56.9 9
Tumor Focality: Multifocal, bilateral
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR-------------A
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.0cm
Additional dimension: 4.5 cm
Additional dimension: 2.5 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant _
Papillary carcinoma, solid variant ‘ . +=
Papillary carcinoma, other variant: trabecular (76f T33 , fohwlm' VNIO‘y
Follicular architecture ‘00 "
Solid architecture
Other architecture: trabecular
Classical cytomorphology
Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perineural Invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perineural Invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Present, extent minimal
Indeterminate

Not identiﬁed

Not identified

--------------- SECONDTUMOR—---------—----

Tumor Laterality: Left lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 0.5cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)
Papillary carcinoma, microcarcinoma (occult, small or
microscopic) variant
Classical (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Present, extent widely invasive

Indeterminate
Not identified
Not identified
m (multiple primary tumors) -
pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm. limited to thyroid or with minimal
extrathyroidal extension (eg, extension to sternothyroid
muscle or perithyroid soft tissues)

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 5
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Not applicable

Adenoma
Other: Multiple additional papillary microcarcinomas are
identified in the left lobe (0.1, 0.1, and 0.1cm).

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

‘ Electronically
verified by:

 

 

Gross Description '

The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "total thyroid, long stitch-right superior"
consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with sutures and weighs 56.9 g. The right lobe
measures 5.5 cm SI x 4.5 cm ML x 2.6 cm AP, the left lobe measures 5.7 cm SI x 3.1 cm ML x
0.9 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.7 cm SI x 3.2 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP. There is a piece of
soft tissue on the inferior left lobe that measures 4.0 cm SI x 1.3 cm ML x 0.9 cm AP. The
external surfaces have fibrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands and 3 possible lymph nodes
measuring from 0.1 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension are identified grossly. The external surface is
painted with Silver nitrate. The right lobe contains a tan-brown well delineated nodule that
measures 5.0 cm SI x 4.5 cm ML x 2.5 cm AP. The left lobe contains a tan-brown well delineated
nodule that measures 0.9 cm Sl x 1.0 cm ML 0.7 cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is
grossly unremarkable. One piece of tumor and two pieces of normal from the left lobe and

multiple pieces of tumor from the right lobe are stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted as follows:

1A-l right lobe, superior to inferior (representative sections)
1C-D, 1H-l: one piece bisected in each set of blocks

1J-P isthmus

lQ-AB left lobe, superior to inferior

1AC three possible lymph nodes

 

