UUID: SDAZCAAﬁ- 7E37- -433E- 9713- C4576A|h£9esz4ac
TCGA- CQ -7071- 91A- PR

III I IIII I III IIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII I "III" IIII II IIIe'JI
IIIIIIII II I IIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Page 1 of4
II IIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII III IIIII I II I I II IIIIIIIIII III III ‘

ﬂ—

, A "Yisit Number

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

Event Date and Time Procedure Ordered Status Ordered B Specimen #
_ Sur icaI Pathoto . Recort , , W'anel u A "'

 

 

 

«Fl-7‘ a , ..,u. , ”vim

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
“ Addended *

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
I. ch: Left Neck Zones 1,2,3. Single stitch == perifacial nodes, double
stitch=inferior zone 3 nodes
2. anterior lip margin .
Lmarginal mandibulectomy leﬂ: anterior alveolus
i. Surgical-l Waste

DIAGNOSIS

Ir Left neck zones 1, 11, II.

Metastatic squamOus cell carcinoma involving one of twenty-two lymph nodes
:1/22).

I. The involved lymph node measures 2.0 cm.

7. The involved lymph node is in level I.

:. Negative for extranodal invasion. I C A - ﬂ ,3

iubmandibular gland With no pathologic changes. C \ M U or W ,7 0/3

!. Anterior lip margin. . . ‘ ’ a

\Iegative for tumor. :3 (h, .' WW. Imum, C 0 3 I (PM
5. Oral cavity; marginal mandibulectomy and left anterior alveolus. M (W1 *7 C a, 7 (66762;)

iquamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.

l. Tumor maximum diameter 3.9 cm. I / la] 15'

). Tumor thickness 1.6 cm.

dz. Negative for lymphovascular invasion.

I. Negative for pedneural invasion.

2. Sections of bone are pending decalciﬁcation. An addendum report will
’ollow. (Please see comment)

'. Tumor is close to anterior (0.2 cm), and medial (0.2 cm) mucosal
nargins. The remaining margins are negative (>05 cm) for tumor.

I. Surgical waste.

lever) teeth with no pathologic diagnosis. (Gross examination only)

SYNOPTIC DATA

Clinical History: No neoadjuvant therapy

Specimen: Mandible

Received: Fresh

Prosedm-e: Mandibulectom‘yt left

Neck (lymph node) dissection: left neck

Specimen Integrity: Intact

Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 4.4 cm

Additional dimension: 3.1. cm

Additional dimension: 2.3 cm

Specimen Laterality: Left

Tumor Site: Lower gingiva (gum)

Lower alveolar process

Mandible

Tumor Focality: Single focus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.9 cm

Tumor Description: Exophytic, Ulceiated

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Histologic" Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 0.2 cm

Margin(s): anterior and medial

Margin status for carcinoma in situ is not

applicable

Treatment Effect: Not identiﬁed

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes, Extranodal Extension: Not identiﬁed
TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (p1): pT2:Tumor more than 2 em but not more than
4 cm in greatest dimension

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): le: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral
lymph node, 3 cm or less in greatest dimension

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 22

Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 1

Size (greatest dimension) of the largest

positive lymph node: 2.0 cm

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: None identiﬁed
*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Page 2 of 4

 

COMMENT
Tumor staging may change if bone invasion is found in decalciﬁed section.

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIEM

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient’ s name and "left neck zones 1, 2,
3". The specimen consists of an oriented left neck dissection measuring 9.5 x
'I".0 x 2.0 cm. Twenty-two (22) lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.2 to
2.0 cm. The submandibular gland measures 5.5 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm and is
mremarkable.

Levels I and II

[A four lymph nodes

lB four lymph nodes

lC one lymph node

Level III

[B ﬁve lymph nodes

lE four lymph nodes

lF one lymph node

16 one lymph node

[H one lymph node

ll one lymph node

[I submandibular gland

Z. The specimen is labeled with the patient' s name and "anterior lip margin
g ". It consists of skin measuring 3.0 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is
:ubmitted in toto for ﬁ'ozen section. -.

2A ﬁozen section control

b. The specimen is labeled with the patient' s name and "mandibulectorny leﬁ
mterior a'lve'olus". The specimen consists of a partial mandibulectomy
measuring AP 4.4 x ML 3.1 x SI 2.3 cm. There is an exophylic papillary, and
llcerated mass, measuring AP 3.9 x 2.4 ML x SI 1.6. The mass is involving the
mandible, extending into the gingiva proximally, and sulcus and buccal mucosa
listally. The mass is located at 0.6 cm from the deep resection margin, 0.6 cm
‘rom the posterior resection margin, 0.2 cm from the anterior resection margin,
L2 cm from the medial (gingival/ﬂoor of mouth) resection margin, and 0.4 cm
tom the lateral (buccal) resection margin The mandible measures AP 3.3 x SI
.5 x ML 0.8 cm. All the margins are painted with silver nitrate. The deep
narg'in is painted green, and the circumferential (including anterior,

msterior, and lateral/buccal areas) margins are painted black. Representative
cations are submitted.

IA anterior margin with tumour

Page 3 of 4

 

Page 4 of 4

3B posterior margin with tumour

3C-3F lateral/buccal and deep margins with tumour

3G medial margin

decalciﬁed sections

3H anterior mandibular margin, -en face

31 posterior mandibular margin, en face

3] midsections with tumor with deep and medial margins

. ‘ “I; dibular resection margin, en face
4. The specimen is labeled with the patient' s name and "surgical waste" It
consists of consists. of seven (7) teeth and one bridge. These are grossly
unremarkable. No sections are submitted for histology.

 

QinéK SECTION
2A. Anterior lip margin for : Negative for invasive carcinoma
Result reported at

Addendum Status: Signed Out

Addendum Comment
Dccalciﬁed sections of bone show superﬁcial invasion of cortex by squamous
cell carcinoma. The bone margins are negative for tumor.

$.33:
.agfcv "v.

