 

Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
- ' Date of Report:
" Account #:
Billing Type: lNPATlENT
Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis‘8t History:
Papillary thyroid cancer.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Right para~tracheal tissue; biopsy

2: Right superior mediastinal tissue; biopsy
3: Thyroid. total thyroidectomy

4: Delphian lymph node; biopsy

 

5:"

DIAGNOSIS' UUID: 81F7E6CD- EBSF- 4E83- AA24- 778687FDA26e4d

1.

2.

3.

TCGA- DJ- A2PS- 01A- PR

IIllIIIlIllIlIIlIIlIIlIIllIIIlIIIIlllIIllIlIIlllIIIIIIIIlIelIlIlIIlIMI

llIlIIlIllIIlIlIIlllIIIllIIlIll‘IllIlIllIIIlIlIlI IlIllI lllIIlI ~
Right swam, New um; MW llllllIllllllllllllllllllllllll IIllllllllllllllllllllllll
Lymph 'Node Dissection:

Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma consisting of a few psammoma bodies.
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.2cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed
Comment: The psammoma bodies diagnostic of carcinoma were not present on the frozen section slide.

Right para-tracheal tissue; biopsy: ll
- Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue. I

 

Thyroid, total thyroidectomy:
Tumor Type:

Multlcentric papillary carcinoma, classical , tall and microcarclnoma variants.

Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis: / L A ’ 0 I 3

, . A gum/5
Not ldentrﬁed d [,0 ”19’" II M? M11

3 7
Other Tumor Features: 5 h : Wet W5 0 7
Psammoma bodies

a I II
Tumor Location: 3/ /
Left lobe
Right lobe
isthmus

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 1.1 cm.
, for the classical type, tall cell (0.3 cm), microcarcinoma (0.25 and 0.35 cm)

Tumor Encapsulation:

Page 1 of3

The classical type is encapsulated, the other foci are unencapsulated

Capsular invasion:
Extensive invasion
of tumor capsule by the classical type.

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
Very focal extra~thyroid extension into adipose tissue by the isthmic microcarcinoma

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:
Exhibits chronic lymphocytic thyroidltis

Parathyroid Glands: "'~ "
One intrathyroldal parathyroid involved by carcinoma

Lymph Nodes:
One benign lymph node (0/1)

 

4. Delphian lymph node; biopsy:
Lymph Node Dissection:
' Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

 

l ATI'EST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. .

Report maimur"

 

Gross Description:

‘— -»4 .. w ..
amann-

1)The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation labeled "Right para~tracheal tissue". and consists of three
fragments of yellow/pink soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.6. x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section diagnosis. - . H _. ' ' ' - ‘ '

Summary sections:
FSC — frozen section control

 

r.

2) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation labeled "Right superior mediastinal tissue", and consists of fatty
yellow soft tissue measuring 1.0 x10 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

Summary sections:
FSC - frozen section control

Wow-1-

3) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "total thyroidectomy stitch marks right lobe of thyroid” and consists of a thyroid weighing
10.05 g. The right lobe measures 4.0 x 2.2 x 1.1 cm. the left lobe measures 3.8 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm and the isthmus measures 1.0 x 0.8

 

Page 2 of 3

x 0.3 cm. There is a 2.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm portion of skeletal muscle attached to the right lower lobe. The external surface is covered
by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black, and the anterior is inked blue. Sectioning reveals a
1.1 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm white solid nodule in the right lower lobe (N1), and a 0.3 cm white solid nodule in left mid lobe (N2). The
remaining thyroid parenchyma is red tan and beefy. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for TPS. The
remaining tissue is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

N1 - nodule in the right lobe

N2 - nodule in the leftlobe

RL - right lobe

LL ~ left lobe

is — isthmus and skeletal muscle

4) The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "Delphian lymph node" and consists of single fatty lymph node measuring 0.5 x
0.4 x 0.3 cm. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph node

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Right para-tracheal tissue; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 FSC 3

Part 2: Right superior mediastlnal tissue; biopsy

Block Sect. Site P03
1 FSC 1

Part 3: Thyroid, total thyroidectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 iS 4

2 LL 4

2 N1 3

1 N2 2

2 RL 4
Part 4: Delphian lymph node; biopsy
Block Sect. Site PC:

1 LN 1

Intraoperative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the lntraoperative consultation.

1. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Right para-tracheal tissue (fs): Benign
Permanent Diagnosis: Same

2. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Right superior medlastinal tissue (ts): Benign "
Permanent Diagnosis: See ﬁnal

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

