C) 106D ,0 ~ 5 d
64 IZkLV' rem. Gel/
(Lr zno A.
UUID:58D1FFA6-3836-4D7C-BF7a-E6866526F195d d C /W 3396015
TCGA-BB-A5w7-91A-PR Re acte A ® ‘ 06$
Ill||IIIIIHIIIllllllllllllllIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 3*" K’d" "1
IHllllllllHllllHlmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 00,1049
||| |||||||||||||||||||Illlllllllllll lllllllIlllllllllllllllll 97,0 3),”) 5

Diagnosis:
A: Kidney, right, anterior renal mass, partial nephrectomy

Procedure: partial nephrectomy

Laterality: right

Histologic tumor type/subtype: papillary renal cell carcinoma
Sarcomatoid features: absent

Histologic grade (if applicable): 3

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 1.5 cm

Tumor focality: multifocal (see parts B and C)

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or
microscopic):

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: absent

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): positive

B: Kidney, right, posterior medial renal mass, partial
nephrectomy

Procedure: partial nephrectomy
Laterality: right

Histologic tumor type/subtype: papillary
Sarcomatoid features: absent

Histologic grade (if applicable): grade 3
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.8 cm

Tumor focality: multifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or
microscopic):
Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: negative

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): negative

C: Kidney, right, posterior lateral renal mass, partial
nephrectomy

Procedure: partial nephrectomy

Laterality: right

Histologic tumor type/subtype: papillary
Sarcomatoid features: absent

Histologic grade (if applicable): 3

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.5 cm

Tumor focality: multifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or
microscopic):

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: negative
Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): negative

AJCC Staging:
prTla
pNx

This staging information is based on information available at
the time of this report, and is subject to change pending
clinical review and additional information.

Clinical History:
—year-old male with right renal mass. Per , the patient has a
history of renal cell carcinoma.

Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "kidney, right, anterior
renal mass, partial nephrectomy" and consists of a 10.6 gram,
3.5 x 3.0 x 2.1 cm brown/tan fragment of kidney. The surgical
margin is inked black. The renal capsule is inked yellow. A
defect, 1.2 x 0.8 cm is identified and the external surface
around the defect is inked yellow. The specimen is serially
sectioned perpendicular to the blue and black inked tube margin.
Sectioning reveals a pale tan, at least 1.5 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm well-
circumscribed mass. The yellow inked defect goes right

through this mass. The mass abuts the yellow—inked margin,
black-inked margin and is less than 1 mm from the blue inked
margin. The adjacent renal parenchyma is yellow to brown/tan,
homogeneous.

Block Summary:

A1 — Perpendicular sections of the first slice with blue inked
margin, including closest approach of the mass

A2—A3 — Representative sections of the mass with adjacent
uninvolved renal parenchyma

A4 - Additional representative section of the mass

Container B is additionally labeled "kidney, right, posterior
medial renal mass, partial nephrectomy" and consists of a 28.0
gram, 4.0 x 3.7 x 3.0 cm fragment of kidney, that was received
with a prior cut for tissue procurement. The capsule is inked
blue and the surgical margin is inked black. Sectioning reveals
a pale tan, friable, well—circumscribed mass, 3.8 x 3.6 x 2.9
cm. Focal gray to red/tan areas consistent with necrosis and
hemorrhage respectively, are identified. Normal renal parenchyma
is not identified in the specimen. The mass is 0.1 cm from the
blue and black inked margins. Representative sections,

including closest approach to the margin are submitted in blocks
Bl~BZ.

Representative sections from the grossly necrotic and
hemorrhagic area is submitted in block B3.

Container C is additionally labeled "kidney, right, posterior
lateral renal mass" and consists of a 13.5 gram 3.4 x 2.7 x 2.2
cm fragment of kidney, with a 3.5 x 1.7 x 0.6 cm fibroadipose
tissue attached. The capsule is inked blue and the resection

margin is inked black. The capsule is yellow to brown/tan,
smooth, and unremarkable. Sectioning reveals a pale tan friable
mass, 2.5 x 2.5 x 2.1 cm. The mass is hemorrhagic in the center,

abuts the blue inked capsule and is 0.2 cm from the black inked
resection margin.

Block Summary:

C1—C2 — Representative sections of the mass, depicting closest
approach to the margins

C3 - Representative section of the mass with the attached
fibroadipose tissue fragment

PW Tcéﬁ‘ 44V; Conan-n4 bc pamHhJ-Thb
prur MW was 0..de his‘hly-[I )‘l’ld'laL
WW 541(5er 0101 ."I 5-,( altsxmuvﬁ'a, fun/NJ .

Crikey]:

Tum M

(as: is

 

