SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
Distal stomach and proximal duodenum, partial gastroduodenectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: moderately differentiated

Depth of invasion: 1.0 cm (invades into submucosa but not into muscularis propria)
Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: present (block A12)

Perineural invasion: not present

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Proximal and distal margins are widely free of tumor.
Proximal surgical margin: no evidence of malignancy

Distal surgical margin: no evidence of malignancy

Radical (adventitial) margin: no evidence of malignancy

Lymph nodes: Metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2 of 7 lymph nodes (1 lymph node from the lesser curvature and the larger lymph node
from the greater curvature.

Size of largest nodal metastasis (greatest dimension): 1.7 cm
Presence/absence of extranodal extension: not present
Other significant findings:

AJCC Staging:
pT1b

pN1

pr

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

Clinical History:
history of prostate cancer and a clinical diagnosis of gastric cancer. Patient undergoes gastrectomy.

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled container.

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: unspecified gastrectomy

Size of specimen: 14 x 7 x 3.7 cm gastrectomy specimen

Orientation of specimen: Per the specimen requisition there is a stitch marking proximal duodenum. At the time of tissue
procurement triage, the duodenal staple margin was inked blue, the gastric staple margin was inked black and the body (external
surface) stomach was inked red.

Tumor description: A solitary large exophytic centrally ulcerative red-tan mass with central hemorrhage at the depressed ulcer bed.
Location of tumor: lesser curvature

Tumor size: 4.8 x 3.7 x 1.9 cm

Depth of invasion: The tumor appears to extend to the muscular wall however there is no gross evidence of involvement of the
muscular wall.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The tumor is 2.1 cm to the blue inked duodenal margin and 5.5 cm to the closest portion of
the black inked gastric margin.

Description of remainder of tissue: The gastric serosa is red-tan, glistening and unremarkable. The gastric wall is 3-4 mm thick and
the gastric mucosa is red-tan, nodular and velvety. There are no other mucosal abnormalities readily appreciated. Presumed portion
of duodenal mucosa is pink-tan and velvety with no abnormalities identified. There is a approximately 23 x 20 x 2.5 cm portion of
greater omentum which is received somewhat disrupted but attached on the greater curvature of the gastrectomy specimen. There
are no large nodules or suspicious areas identified within the greater omentum.

Tissue submitted for specimen investigations: Tumor and normal was taken by tissue procurement.

Lymph nodes: The perigastric adipose tissue was removed and palpated for lymph node candidates. The potion of the greater
omentum near the blue ink duodenal margin, there is a large 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm positive lymph node

candidate identified. The lesser curvature adipose tissue is removed, palpated and two lymph node candidates from 3 x 3 x 3 mm
and 5 x 4 x 4 mm are identified. The adipose tissue at the greater curvature (including omentum) is removed and

is palpated for lymph node candidates. Five greater curvature lymph node candidates, the smallest 5 x 4 x 4 mm and the largest
being the positive lymph node previously described.

Other attached structures:
Digital photograph taken:

Block summary:

A1 - duodenal margin, en face

A2 - duodenal mucosa overhanging margin

A3-A5 - gastric margin en face (portion closest to tumor in A3 and A4)

A7 - distal gastrectomy specimen (duodenum)

A8 - stomach distal to mass

A9 - stomach proximal to mass

A10-A11 - one full thickness section of tumor, bisected

A12 - tumor and proximal gastric mucosa

A13 - tumor and distal gastric mucosa

A14 - two lesser curvature lymph node candidates

A15 - one section through large distal greater curvature lymph node candidate
A15 - four greater curvature lymph node candidates

A17-A19 - additional lesser curvature adipose tissue

A20-A26 - additional greater curvature adipose tissue, from where the greater omentum inserts onto the greater curvature of the
stomach

A27-A28 - representative greater omentum

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: l have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above
diagnosis(es).

