 

POM Cx7?%

ilnalPar/ralagy ﬂiaynasis ﬂﬂﬂﬂff

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

Final Pathologic Diagnosis
A) PALATE AND RETROMOLAR TRIGONE (RADICAL TONSILLECTOMY, PARTIAL
PALATECTOMY AND RETROMOLAR TRIGONE EXCESION): _
- Invasive keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, moderately
differentiated. (See synoptic report)
- Unremarkabie tonsillar tissue, negative for malignancy.

 

 

B) LATERAL BUCCAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Fibroadipose tissue with smooth muscle, negative for malignancy.

C) DEEP PTERYGOID MARGIN (BIOPSY):
— Fibroadipose tissue with smooth muscle, negative for malignancy.

D) DEEP RETROMOLAR TRIGONE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Fibroadipose tissue with submucosal glands, negative for malignancy.

E) INFERIOR BUCCAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Squamous mucosa with cautery artifact, negative for malignancy.

F) PALATE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Fibroadipose tissue, negative for malignancy.

G) MEDIAL PHARYNGEAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
— Squamous mucosa and underiying submucosal glands and smooth
muscle with mild chronic inflammation, negative for malignancy.

H) 'PHARYNGEAL FAT MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Salivary gland tissue, negative for malignancy.

I) LEVEL 2 (LYMPH NODE DISSECTION):

Page: 1 of 7

 

 

 

Final Pat/inlay]! Hiaynasis

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
— — Receivednatemm;
Verified Date/”Time:

- Two benign lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0I2).

J) LEVEL 3 (LYMPH NODE DISSECTION):
— One benign lymph node, negative for malignancy (011).

K) MEDIAL LEVEL 5 (LYMPH NODE DISSECTION):
- Nine benign lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (019).

L) LEVEL 5 (LYIVIPH NODE DISSECTION):
- Two of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma (2/2) with extracapsular extension.

I attest l have personally reviewed the specimen/slides and agree with the above ﬁndings.

 

Resident:—

Synoptic Report

A: Lip and Oral Cavity H
SPECIMEN (Select all a appy :
Other (specify): Tonsil, palate, retromolar trigone
RECEIVED:
Fresh
PROCEDURE (Select all that apply):
Resection
Palatectomy
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY:
Intact
SPECIMEN SIZE:
Greatestdimensions: 4.8 cm

Page: 2 of 7

Reﬁt!!!

 

 

   

 

‘ Final Patna/ayy niaynasis Hanoi:

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
— * Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

SPECEMEN LATERALlTY:
Right
TUMOR SITE (Select all that apply):
Other (specify): right retromolar trigone
TUMOR FOCALITY:
Single focus
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimensions: 3.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 1 x 0.3 cm
TUMOR THICKNESS (pTl AND pT2 Tumors):
Tumor thickness: 4 mm
TUMOR DESCRiPTION (Select all that-apply):
Gross subtype
Ulcerated
HISTOLOGIC TYPE (Select all that apply): i
Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
HISTOLOGEC GRADE:
C32: Moderately differentiated
MARGINS (Select all that apply):
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 0.2cm. This measurement takes into account the additional margins (Specimen B
and Specimen C). While some of the margins on Specimen A appear positive, additional margins were taken in
Specimen B through Specimen H.
Specify margin(s), per orientation, if possible: Lateral and deep
LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION:
Not identified
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Not identified
LYMPH NODES, EXTRANODAL EXTENSION:
Present
PATHOLOGEC STAGING (pTNM):
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) .
pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) i
pN2b: Metastasis in multipie ipsilateral iymph nodes. none more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
Specify: Number examined: 15
Number involved: 2
DISTANT METASTASIS

Not Applicable

Page: 3 of 7 l

 

 

 

 

final Patna/airy ﬂirting-sis lien-arr

Accession Number: ' ‘ ' Collected Datchime:
— Received Date/Time:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS (Select all that apply):
Keratinizing dysplasia
Moderate

Intraoperative Diagnosis

: argln negative for tumor.
FS 01: Margin negative for tumor.
FS 01: Margin negative for tumor.
FS E1: Margin negative for tumor.
F8 F1: Margin negative for tumor.
FS G1: Margin negative for tumor.
FS H1: Margin negative for tumor.

' ' istory
male.

. Pre/Post-operative Diagnosis
SCCA right retromolar trigone mass.

Gross Anatomic Descri tion

Specimens received in twelve containers.

Specimen A: Designated "radical tonsillectomy, partial palatectomy, retromolar trigone excision“ is received in formalin
labeled with the patient's name, MRN and "radical tonsillectomy, partial palatectomy, retromolar trigone excision“. Specimen
consists of a single irregular portion of soft tissue with a mucosai surface which measures 4.8 x 2,9 x 0.6 cm in aggregate. The
specimen is oriented. The mucosa! surface is ten! pink with a roughly central portion of ulceration measuring 3.5 x 1 x 0.3
cm. The specimen came with the deep margin previously inked blue. Cut surface reveals firm and somewhat fibrotic area
underlying the ulceration which grossly abuts the deep inked margins.

inking code: Black — lateral; green "medial; Red -— superior; Orange - inferior; blue — deep.

Section code: A1 — medial margin, perpendicularly sectioned; A2 — lateral margin perpendicular sections; A3-A8 — sections of
specimen submitted from medial to lateral, entire specimen.

Page: 4 of 7

 

 

 

final Pathology niagnasis Ila-Hort

Accession Number: Senior Patholo is : Collected DatefTime:
— * Received Date/Time:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

S ecimen B: Designated "lateral buccal margin“ is receivedfresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis
drill-abated with the patient’s name and "lateral buccal margin“. Specimen consists of one piece of tan tissue

measuring 0.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, entirely frozen.
Section code: 81 —frozen section control, entire specimen.

S ecimen C: Desi nated "deep pterygoid margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis cnﬂ labeled with the patient‘s name and "deep pterygoid margin". Specimen consists of one piece of red
tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm, entirely frozen.

Section code: 81 — frozen section control, entire specimen.

8 ecimen D: Desi hated "deep retromolar trigone margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis on labeled with the patient’s name and "deep retromolar trigone margin”. Specimen consists of one piece

of ten tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm, entirely frozen.
Section code: D‘l — frozen section control, entire specimen.

labeled with the patient's name and "inferior buccal margin". Specimen consists of one piece of ten tissue
measuring .4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm, entirely frozen.
Section code: E1 — frozen section control, entire specimen,

Specimen E: Designated "inferior buccal margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis
on

labeled with the patient's name and "palate margin". Specimen consists of one piece of tan tissue measuring 1.3 x

. x 0.3 cm, entirely frozen.
Section code: F‘l —— frozen section control, entire specimen.

8 ecimen G: Desi nated "medial pharyngeal margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
Wlabeled with the patient’s name and "medial pharyngeal margin". Specimen consists of one piece of
tan tissue measuring .7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, entirely frozen.

Section code: G1 — frozen section control, entire specimen.

Siecimen F: Designated "paiate margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on

S ecimen H: Designated "pharyngeal fat margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis on labeled with the patient's name and "pharyngeal fat margin". Specimen consists of one piece of pink!
tan tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm, trisected and entirely frozen.

Section code: l-l’l — frozen section control, entire specimen.

Specimen I: Designated "level 2“ is received in formalin Iabeied with the patient’s name and ”level 2". Specimen consists of a
single portion of soft tani yellow bosselated fibroadipose tissue measuring 3.8 x 2.9 x 0.6 cm. Two lymph nodes are grossly
appreciated ranging from 0.4 cm to 1.0 cm in diameter.

Section code: It — l2 — one lymph node each bisected.

Page: 5 of 7

 

 

 

 

Final Patna/nail ﬂiaaaasis ﬂaaarr

‘ : Senior Patholo ist: Collected Datcl‘Time:
— Reeeeeeeeemme

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Specimen J: Designated "level 3“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "level 3“. Specimen consists of
a single portion of soft tan! yellow bosselated fibrcadipose tissue measuring 3.1 x 2.1 x 0.7 cm. One lymph node is identified
measuring 0.8 cm in diameter.

Section code: J‘l — one lymph node each bisected.

Specimen K: Designated "medial level 5" is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "medial level 5".
Specimen consists of a single portion of soft tan;r yellow bosseiated fibroadipose tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.3 cm. No
lymph nodes are grossly appreciated.

Section code: K1 —K2 — entire specimen.

Specimen L: Designated "level 5" is received fresh for Tumor Bank labeled with the patient's name and ”level 5". Specimen
consists of a single portion of soft tanf yellow bosselated fibroadlpose tissue measuring 4.5 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm. A portion of one
lymph node is given for Tumor Bank. Two lymph nodes are grossly identified ranging from 0.6 cm to 0.8 cm.

Section code: L1~0ne lymph node bisected minus portion given to Tumor Bank; L2 — one lymph node bisected.

 

Page: 6 of 7

 

 

 

 

latraaaarallva

lntraoperatlve Diagnosis

FS B1:
FS Ci:
FS D1:
FS E1:
F8 F1:
F8 Gi:
FS H1:

Margin negative for tumor.
Margin negative for tumor.
Margin negative for tumor.
Margin negative for tumor.

Margin negative for tumor.

Margin negative for tumor.
Margin negative for tumor.

Page: 7 of 7

.ﬂ'i'ﬂyll 0 sin

Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/Time:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

ﬁﬁﬂﬂfl‘

 

 

