UUID: SBCADBFB- -ECA4- -4522- 843
TCGA- QR “A662 65A RA- A-ECDEFEZEDCZa

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIiIIIIHIIIIlIlIlIIIIIlIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIICIIted

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll l lllllllllllllllll l l llIlllIlIllI Ill

H
H
ll

WWW See/0

Nos
674 7

0,9) 2/ #73

 

Surgical Pathology

Surgical Pathology

CASE NUMBER:
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Soft tissue, periaortic (excision): Fibroadipose tissue with
cauterized cellular fragment, see Note.

2. Adrenal. left, mass (excision): Pheochromocytoma, no vascular or
capsular invasion is seen.

NOTE: In the perlaortic soft tissue specimen. there are several
fragments of cellular tissue showing cautery artifact. These cells are
rounded and have abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm.
lmmunohlstochemlstry for synaptophysln. chromogranin. and inhibin are
performed and are negative. Synaptophysin shows positivity in internal
control. We" do notm-feel-these‘ cells-representpheochmmocytcmar.
Additional immunchistochemistry to try to characterize these cells will

be performed and reported separately. .

The immunoperoxidase tests performed here were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or
approved by the U.S. l-ood and Drug Administration. The FDA has also
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL lNFORMATION: Allocate Order to Protocol: Brief
Clinical History: left

adrenal mass. history of right adrenal

pheochrcmocytoma Specimen

Taken For Protocol 01- Yes

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: left adrenal mass Post-Operative
Diagnosis:

left adrenal mass Operative Findings: left adrenal mass

removed

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. RETROPERITONEAL LESION. Tissue

2. ADRENAL MASS. LEFT

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 2 containers labeled with the
patient‘s name. medical record number. and further specified as
follows:

1. Received in a fonnalin-ﬁlled container labeled “periaorta tissue"

is a gray to yellow-tan irregular fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 x 1 x
0.6 cm and is submitted in toto in a white cassette labeled #1
for permanent processing.

2. Received fresh in a container labeled "left adrenal mass“ is a
red/tan soft tissue mass with multiple while staples on one surface
measuring 2.7 x 2.2 x 2 cm and weighing 13.3 grams. The specimen is
sectioned revealing a solid Ian/red cut surface with multiple small foci

- Final Resultsl
Final

{L'urzl‘slimrl‘iul i‘uticnt lruorrnatt-Jn. Unauthorized disclosurr: it: prolxlhltvd in tin: Fallow? 'l-‘risav; Act of lGF-l

Requested By:

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

>,~—-—-‘_"'__—"

 

 

Surgical Pathology
of hemorrhage. Approximately 40% is procured for the

40% procured for .nd the remaining tissue sent
to Surgical Pathology. Inkan is not required as per
Procurement is carried out by on at hour.

The specimen received at the Laboratory of Pathology is consistent with
the above description. is sectioned and submitted In tcto in white
cassettes labeled 'or pennenent processing.

Gross description dictated by

No consultants

Final Rosultsl

‘1\}'A\5

  

in

Re viewer

 

ll onli-imri’iui Ethical information. Unauthorized disclosur: is prizibi'sitcrl by tin: .lic-tlcrnl i’rt‘mcx vita oi" 193i

Requested By:

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

