 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ Surgigl Pathology W Final}
Path Report > Final
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ACCESSION N0. :
Final Diagnosis(es): _ 'mb ’0 -3
(A) Left kidney and adrenal gland. radical nephrectomy: W
1) Papillary renal cell carcinoma (5.5 cm), Type 2. 1 W4 ELM
F uhrman grade 3 of 4 (see Synoptic Report). ? 9100 [3
2) Tumor focally invades renal sinus.

3) Separate tumor focus located in proximal ureter (0.7
cm).

4) Pathologic stage: pT3a N1 MX.

5) Adrenal gland with no pathologic abnormality.

(8) Left adrenal gland, completion adrenalectomy:

1) Benign adrenal gland.

2) No malignancy identiﬁed.

(C) Lymph nodes. para-aortic. excision:

1) Metastatic papillary renal cell carcinoma involving two
of two lymph nodes (2/2).

2) Extracapsular extension identiﬁed.

(D) Lymph nodes. para-aortic, excision:

1) Metastatic papillary renal cell carcinoma involving ten of
sixteen lymph nodes (10/16).

2) Extracapsuiar extension identiﬁed.

3) Vascular invasion present. ,

(E) Lymph nodes. interaortocaval. excision:

1) Metastatic papillary renal cell carcinoma involving two
of two lymph nodes (2/2).

2) Vascular invasion present.

(F) Ureter, left distal, ureterectomy: Benign ureter, negative
for malignancy.

Synoptic Report.

Lateralitm Left.

Specimen Procedure: Radical nephrectomy.

Tumor Site: Middle.

Tumor Size: 6.5 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm.

Tumor Focaiity: Multiiocai (kidney and ureter)
Macroscopic Extent of Tumor: Limited to kidney.
Histologic Type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma.
Sarcomatoid Features: Not identiﬁed.

Tumor Necrosis: Present. 5%.

Histologic Grade (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): Grade 3, Type 2.
Microscopic Extent of Tumor. Renal sinus, focal.
Lymphvascular invasion: Present.

Margins:

Ureterlc: Negative.

Vascular. Negative.

Soft Tissue: Negative.

Regional lymph nodes:

\ ﬂat/f7
9%) lb/4/L3

UUID : 567F4143- 2D87-4682- 3178- 23CGDBBDOZBO
TCGA-A4-A7UZ -91A- PR

|||||||||||||||l||||||||||||l|li uIIIIIiiﬁI‘iIﬁiImI
“Hill" |
Illllllliil|||ll|||||i|il||||||||||||||l||||| murmur

 

 

, w

Printed from:

 

Page: 1 of 6

 

 

Patient Results
' — M

Number examined: 20

Number positive: 14

Pathologic Staging: pT3a N1 MX.
Pathologic Findings in Non-Neoplastic Kidney: Mild, patchy.
interstitial, chronic inﬂammation.
immunohistochemistry:

RCC: Positive

PAX-B: Positive

0010: Positive

CK5: Negative

p63: Negative

 

 

 

 

Comments:
The morphologic features and immunohistochemical profile
supports the diagnosis of papillary renal cell carcinoma.
Although spread into the ureter is unusual for renal cell
carcinoma, the main kidney mass and tumor within the ureter
share the same immunohistochemical proﬁle and morphologic
appearance. representing the same tumor.
This case has been reviewed and the diagnosis agreed upon by
mepanmental surgical pathology staff.

e gross description and all microscopic slides have been
reviewed and interpreted by the undersigned pathologist
Electronically Signed

Speciments) KecerVeu.

A: Left kidney and adrenal gland
B: Left adrenal gland

C: Para-aortic lymph nodes

D: Para-aortic lymph nodes

E: Part of interaorta caval

F: Distal ureter. left

Clinical History:

Left kidney cancer.
intraoperative Consu ion:
Time Received: ‘

Time Reported:

FSAl -FSA2: Left kidney mass: Carcinoma. favor urothelial (2
blocks).

FSCl—FSCZ: Paraaortic lymph node: Metastatic carcinoma. favor

iiillai renal cell carcinoma (2 blocks).

Gross Description:

(A) (left kidney and adrenal gland)

Specimen components and dimensions: Received fresh for frozen
section analysis is a kidney and perinephric fat measuring 29.0

 

 

l Printed from:

 

Page: 2 ol’ 6

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

; 'j

 

x 23.0 x 6.0 cm. The specimen weighs 1,270 gm. The kidney
itself measures 12.0 x 6.5 x 5.0 cm. The attached adrenal gland
measures 4.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 5.5
cm in length and has an average diameter of 0.4 cm. The kidney
has been shelled out of the perinephric fat and bivalved by the
surgeon. The perinephric fat is inked black. The capsular
surface of the kidney is tan-brown. There are multiple small
white granular lesions ranging in size from 0.1 to 0.5 cm on the
surface. A portion of the tumor appears to be pushing the
capsule out and this area measures 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.6 cm. It does
not appear to be grossly invading through the capsule.

Size, appearance and location of tumor: Blvalving the specimen
reveals a tan-white to pink friable mass (5.5 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm)
present within the center of the kidney. There is an additional
small tan~pink nodule (0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm) at the proximal

ureter. A representative section of the smaller mass is
submitted in FSAi. A representative section of the large tumor
is submitted in FSAZ.

Renal capsuleIRenal sinus: The tumor appears to be extending
the capsule, but does not appear to grossly invade through the
capsule into the perinephric fat. The tumor appears to abut the
renal sinus; hOWever. no gross invasion is identiﬁed. The

small mass on the ureter does not appear to grossly invade into
the ureter.

Renal vein: Not clearly identified.

Other ﬁndings: None.

Unlnvolved tissues: The adrenal gland appears golden yellow
with small punctata hemorrhage areas present. The uninvolved
renal parenchyma appears tan~brown. The medulla is tan-pink.
The average cortical thickness is 0.9 cm. The uninvolved ureter
across is tan-pink, smooth and glistening. The uninvolved
ureter mucosa is tan-white and striated.

Lymph nodes: Five potential lymph nodes are identified in the
hilum fat ranging in size from 0.4 to 1.1 cm. The larger nodes
are firm and suspicious for tumor involvement.

Blocks submitted:

FSAl -FSA2 - representative tumor (large mass and smaller
ureterai mass, respectively)

A3 - representative shave margin of all vascular structures
identiﬁed.

A4 - entire small lesion found on the ureter and cross sections
A5-A6 - representative sections of the tumor and its

relationship to the sinus fat

A7 - representative section of the tumor and its relationship to
the renal pelvis and sinus fat

A8 - representative section of the tumor and its relationship to
the uninvolved renal parenchyma

A9—A10 - representative section of the tumor and in its
relationship to the capsule where it protrudes

A11 - representative section of perinephrtc fat

 

Printed from:

Page: 3 of 6

 

 

 

 

Patient Results
r.— - M

A12 - representative section of grossly uninvolved renal
parenchyma and uninvolved ureter

A13 ~ ﬁve potential lymph nodes intact

A14 - adrenal gland

(B) (left adrenal gland) Received in formalin is a portion of
adrenal gland measuring 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm. The adrenal gland
is golden yellow with red hemorrhagic tissue within the center.
Serial sectioning of the adrenal gland demonstrates no grossly
identified masses. Representative sections are submitted in
cassettes 31-33.

(C) (para-aortic lymph nodes) Received fresh for frozen
section is tan-red tissue measuring 5.0x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. Three
firm lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 1.2 to 4.0
cm. the smallest lymph node is inked black and submitted intact
along with one representative section of the middlesized lymph
node in F801. A representative section of the largest lymph
node is submitted in F802. The remaincbr of the middle—sized
lymph node is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in
cassette CS. The largest lymph node is serially sectioned and
submitted in cassettes C4~06.

(D) (para-aortic lymph nodes) Received in formalin are two
fragments of tan~red ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 7.0 x 10.5 x
4.0 cm. There are multiple surgical clips and sutures present.
Additionally present are fragments of a vascular structure.
Sixteen potential lymph nodes are identiﬁed which are ﬁrm and
rang in size from 0.4 to 8.0 cm. Blocks are submitted as
follows:

D1 - representative sections of the vascular structures
identiﬁed within the specimen

D2 - six potential lymph nodes intact

oa — three potential lymph nodes intact

D4 - one matted lymph node bisected

D5 - one potential lymph node bisected

DB—DS - one lymph node serially sectioned

09-010 - one lymph node serially sectioned

D1 1-014 - one lymph node serially sectioned

015-016 — representative sections of one lymph node

D17-D19 - representative sections of the largest lymph node
(E) (part of interaortocaval) Received in formalin is one
fragment of tan—pink fibroadipose tissue measuring 5.5 x 5.5 x
3.0 cm. Two large ﬁrm matted lymph nodes are identified
ranging in size from 3.0 x 5.5 cm. Blocks are Submitted as
follows:

E1-E2 - representative sections irom the smaller matted lymph
node

E3.E5 - representative sections of the larger matted lymph node
(F) (distal ureter, left) Received in formalin is a portion of
ureter measuring 5.0 cm in length and having a diameter ranging
from 0.6 to 0.5 cm. There is a stapled and suture on one end of
the ureter. This and of the ureter is inked blue. The ureter

 

 

 

 

 

Printed from:

Page: 4 of 6

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is serially sectioned. Blocks are submitted as follows:

F1 — the inked blue margin which was the one with a staple and
suture on it as well as the opposite margin

F2 - the remainder of the specimen serially sectioned

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. _

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of Hi antibodies that are regulated as
analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

 

i' hey
have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary for the ASR’s. These tests are not investigational
and are used in standard clinical care. In cases where
lmmunohistochemistry testing is performed, the following
antibodies and their respective clones may be used to determine
therapy for the patient EFGR(3cB), ER(SP1), PR(1E2).
Her2neu(4B5), CD117(Poiy). GDZO(L26) Ki67(30—9).

Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by IHC. Her2 by "-10 and/or HER2 by FiSl-i have been fixed as
per CAP. requirements for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum
of 48 hours.

ER. PR. Ki—67. p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative

percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-Zineu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0). weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is

scored as (1+). less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue ﬁxed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
parafﬁn unless otherwise stated in the report.

   

criteria .
nragnosis Discrepancy '

‘l‘rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy

 
 
 

 

 

 

Printed from:

Page: 5 of 6

