   

TCGA-65—2783

Material examined:

l’leura, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Colliquating process 89/10 left and 86 right.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Basal group: inﬂated, ﬁxed lower lobe (basal group) measuring 15 x 11.5 cm at the base, up to 10 cm,
central bronchus resection plane located at the level of the branch into the segmental bronchi. Two rather
horizontal staple suture lines of 4 and 5 cm in length run cranial to the hilus. Ventral to the hilus a staple suture
line runs in an are for a length of 5.5 cm. Visceral pleura shows partly reticulate blackish pigmentation, with
lateral and basal patches or foci of pale material. In SQ and it) is a peripheral/intermediate tumcr with an arcuate
configuration, max. 5.7 cm in size, showing marked central colliquation and extending to the pleura in the basal
region, central spread to within about 1 cm of the bifurcation in B9 and 10. In the marginal area, especially in
the basal sections, the lung parenchyma shows marked compaction and solidiﬁcation with a pale brown color.
In the medial subpleural region in SS is a 0.9 cm node showing whitish section surfaces with a blackish
pigmented margin suggestive of a tumor. Rest of parenchyma partly patchy blackish pigmentation, focal
rarefaction with formation of lacunae of max. 0.2 cm.

2.) Lobar LN (station 12) upper lobe: two node parts about 1 cm in size.

3.) Lobar LN (station 12) lower lobe: 1.5 cm node part.

4.) Lobar LN (station 12) left: two node parts each about 0.5 cm in size.

5.) Interlobar LN (station 11) left: 0.? cm node part.

6.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) 0.5 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

Examined:

l.) a: Rapid section remains, b: tumor central with B9+lO, c: 3 sections of tumor with pleura, d: tumor with
solidiﬁed surrounding parenchyma, e: subpleural node SS (halved), f: bronchus, resection margins of vessels
(tangential),

2.) - 6.) A1 material,

ll blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS.

Microscopy

Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation .2 necrotic older large—cell solid carcinoma, possibly
squamous cell carcinoma.

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Intermediate to peripheral, bronchopulmonary, histologicaliy poorly differentiated, nonkeratinizing squamous
cell carcinoma of the left lower pulmonary lobe located in 89

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 le pMX R0, stage IIB

C 34.3; M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosisldiagnoscs:

Tumor necroses. Active ﬁbrin-rich chronic granulating pneumonia in the tumor environment associated with
active fibrin-rich and chronic granulating visceral pleuritis (sample 1.)). Lymph nodes with reactive lesions and
anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 2.) — 6.)).

Remark/addendum:

The subpleural intrapulmonaiy lymph node in SS is metastatically involved and explains the le category.
There is no discernible inﬁltration of the visceral pleura. The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels and
also the lymph nodes of samples 2.) — 6.) are tumor-free.

Material examined:
Pleural aspirate
Clinical diagnosis and question

Colliquating process 89/10 left and S6 right.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

3 mL, amber-colored.

Examined: two smear preparations.

Microscopy

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings entitled for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Pleural effusion aspirate with a few, in part degeneratively changed mesothelial cells or macrophages
Secondary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Accumulation of leukocytes

Remark/addendum:

No cell(s) suggestive of malignancy.

 

