 

 

 

 

_ Sex. Female

 

   
    

Received:
Reporter;

 

DlA .
A. Uterine contents. removal:
High-grade adenocarcinoma with extensive necrosis - see comment.

8. Left ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo—oophoreotomy:
Left ovary -
Benign ovary with serosal ﬁbrous adhesions.
No neoplastic process is identified.
Left fallopian tube -
Benign fallopian tube with no neoplasm identiﬁed.

(2. Right ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo—oophorectomy:
Right ovary -
Benign ovary with serosal ﬁbrous adhesions.
No neoplasm identiﬁed.
Right fallopian tube -
Acute salpingitis.

D. Uterus. hysterectomy

High-grade endometrial adenooorcinoma
Histologic type: mixed endometrioid adenocarcinoma and papillary serous carcinoma - see comment
Histologic grade: Grade 3 (high grade).
Size: At least 8 cm in greatest dimension with additional material in specimens A and F .
Myometrial invasion: Tumor invades less than one—half the thickness of the myometrium.

Greatest depth of invasion is 3 mm into an area of myometrium that is 9 mm thick.

Foot of lymphovascular space invasion present.
Surgical margin: Lesion not identiﬁed at lower uterine segment margin.

AJCC cancer staging of the endometrtum: pT1 aNO

l“

Cervix. excision:

Ulceration with marked acute and chronic inﬂammation. [C's - (I , 5
No neoplasm identiﬁed. Y3 5’ 3/ 3
F. Uterine contents, removal: W Wvg A M
Highgrade adenocarcinoma with extensive necrosis. 44,qu c’ ’ L/ w / 3 ~C 71a 4'
. WWW W ’3
G. Lymph nodes. left common lower aortic. exciSlOﬂT ‘ ‘{
No neoplasm identiﬁed in two lymph nodes. _ W (L S -l
5! f7 l P ] 9/) {I ll
H. Lymph nodes, left external itiac, excision:

No neoplasm identiﬁed in two lymph nodes.

I. Lymph nodes. leﬂ obturator, excision:
No neoplasm identiﬁed in two lymph nodes.

.l. Lymph nodes, right lower aortic, excision:
No neoplasm identiﬁed to two lymph nodes,

   
  
    
     
 

K Lymph nodes, right external iliac, excision: cm I.
. . v I

No neoplasm identiﬁed in three lymph nodes. foiqnoﬁsolsawmw _’

WEE—"m

L. Lymph nodes. right external iliec, excision: Wf—-

No neoplasm identiﬁed in two lymph nodes. w— —-

ii

  

noggin / oisu
Datclte awed;

 

 

M. Lymph nodes, right obturator, excision:
No neoplasm identiﬁed in tour lymph nodes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

<17
R

/3

 

 

 

 

 

 

UUID : 3042566F4232-4530-BF6A-6240A6E97555

TCGA-AJ -A3BG-01A-PR

| || ||
| Illlllllllllllll

Redacted
||||||||

 

 

 

wN. omentu‘maromentectomy:
No neoplasm identiﬁed.

Electronic Signature:

COMMENTS:

There is a high grade adenocarcinoma involving the uterus which has predominantly and endometrioicl pattern. There are areas that have an appearance
of papillary carcinoma, and these loci stain positively for p53. There also are solid sheets of highly atypical neoplastic cells. There is an area lymph
vascular space invasion.

Selected slides reviewed by

.5} a?“

CLINICAL HISTORY.

Preoperative Diagnosis: Pelvic mass.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

  

 

SPECIMENS:

. Uterine contents - FS.
. Left tube and ovary.
. Right tube and ovary.

Uterus.

Can/ix.

Uterine contents.

Left common lower aortic.

Left external iliac.

Left obturator
Right lower aortic and common lymph node.
, Right external irlac suspicious node.
Right external lilac.

. Right obturalor.
. Omentum.

zzrxscspnmpom>

.q‘ .,.. w, ..

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. First container A Is labeled with the patients name #1. The specimen consists of an aggregate of yellowgray shaggy tissue
fragments measuring in aggregate by 16.5 x 15.4 cm. weighing 422 grams. A representative section from the specimen was examined at the time of
surgery. Received with the specimen is a single yellow cassette labeled . Representative sections are submitted in cassettes _ as
follows: FS In block 1; additional sections from the specimen in blocks 2-9.

   

8. Second container B labeled . lZ/ovary. The specimen consists of an every with an attached fallopian tube. The ovary measures 3.5
x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. The cut surface is gray~tan and reveals a corpus albican up to 0.6 an. There is no lesions grossly
identiﬁed. The attached fallopian tube is 5.5 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The surface is gray to brown-tan. Sectioning there is no mature
lesions identiﬁed. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassette labeled as
follows: ovary in total in blocks 1 and 2: representative fallopian tube in block 3.

 

C. Third container C is labeled with the patient's name right tube/ovary and consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube. The

ovary measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. Sectioning there is corpus albicans identiﬁed measuring up to 0,5 cm. There is l
lesions grossly identiﬁed. The fallopian tube measures 6 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The surface is gray to brown—tan. On sectiOning there is i
no mature lesions identiﬁed within the lumen. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 3
labeled as follows: ovary in total in blocks 1-2; representative fallopian tube in block 3. ‘

D. Fourth container D is labeled with the patients uterus. The specimen consists of a partially bisected supracervical hysterectomy .
specimen measuring 13 x 7 x 5.5 cm. and weighs 193 grams. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray to brown-tan with slight hemorrhage and 2
adhesions, The serosal surface has been inked Endometrial cavity measures 10 x 6.5 cm. and is lined by a brown-tan shaggy friable mass involving

the entire uterine cavity that measures 8 x 5.5 cm. and comes within 2 cm. of the resected margin at the lower uterine segment The mass extends into

the underlying myometrium approximately 0.4 cm. into a 0.8 cm. myometrium. The myometrium is gray-tan trabecular. There is no lesions grossly
identiﬁed. Received with the specimen are two cassettes. one green, one yellow labeled 6 with the green additionally labeled - 17 and the 3
blue additionally black 18. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled is follows: full thickness sections from the mass i
in blocks 1 through 6; resected margin at the area of lhn (nuns! uterine segment bin clear I; lett paranerrium In block 8; right parametrium in block 9. E

E. The ﬁfth container E is labeled the patients name . The specimen consists of cervical tissue that measures 2.2 m, in length

 

,WW.WM .. N.

 

and 3 cm. in diameter and has a 2 cm. round patent os. The ectocervical mucosa is gray-tan to brown~tan with hemorrhage. Sectioning there is no
lesions grossly identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled " " '

F. The sixth container F is labeled the patient‘s name uterine contents. The specimen consists of an aggregate of gray to red-tan
shaggy soft tissue fragments measuring in aggregate 15 x 2 x 4.5 cm. and weighs 312 grams. Represenlative sections are submitted in two cassettes
labeled ’

G. The seventh container (3 is labeled the patient’s name ', leﬂ common aortic. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose
tissue measuring 3 x 2 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.2 to 0.6 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely
submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: two probable nodes in block 1; one probable node in block 2.

H. The eighth container H is labeled the patients new I, left external iliac The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue
measuring 5 x 4.5 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.6 to 0.9 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled as follows: one probable node block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2.

l. The ninth containerl is labeled with the patient's name , left obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue 4.5 x
4 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes that measure 1.1 and 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labelec as follows: one probable node biseaed in block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2.

J. The tenth containerJ is labeled he specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadlpose tissue measuring 4.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning
reveals two probable lvmoh nodes that measures 0.9 and 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in three cassettes
labeled is follows: one probable node bisected in block 1: one probable node bisected in blocks 2—3.

K. The eleventh container K is labeled with the patient's name #11. The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted
in cassettes labeled as as follows: one probable node bisected in block 1; two probable nodes in block 2.

L. The tweltth container L is labeled #12 and consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue. 5 x 3 c 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals two
probable lymph nodes that measure 0. I and to cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled
' as follows: one probable lymph node bisected in block 1; one probable lymph node bisected in blocks 2 and 3.

M. The thirteenth container M is labeled and consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 6 x 4 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals
four probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes as follows: two
probable nodes in block 1; one probable node bisected in blocks 2 and 3; one probable lymph node bisected in blOcrt e.

N. The fourteenth container N is labeled The specimen consists of a portion of yellow—tan lobular ﬁbroadipose omentum tissue
measuring 34 x 5 x 2 cm. On sectioning there no nodules grossly identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled

lNTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

A. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSﬂlWS: Adenocarcinoma. favgrhlohmradecoero .. .. ........_,..,._-.. .-.. m-.. WMWM‘W ’

.. law... I...‘:...--

 

 

 

