 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

8.

9.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “tumor #1" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type,
Fuhrman nuclear Grade ll. see note.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “lower pole tumor #2" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell
type, Fuhrman nuclear Grade II, 2.5 cm in largest dimension, see note.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “lower pole cyst #1" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type,
Fuhrman nuclear Grade II, see note.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, ”lower pole cyst #2" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cysts lined by atypical cells.
Soft tissue, kidney, right, “lower pole cyst #3" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cysts lined by atypical cells.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “upper pole cyst #4 (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type,
Fuhrman nuclear Grade II, see note.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “mid pole cyst #5” (partial nephrectomy): Renal cysts lined by atypical cells.
Soft tissue, kidney, right, “cyst #6” (partial nephrectomy): Renal cyst lined by atypical cells.

Soft tissue, kidney, right, “cyst #7" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cyst lined by atypical cells.

10. Soft tissue, kidney, right, “cyst #8" (partial nephrectomy): Renal cysts lined by atypical cells.

11. Soft tissue, “fat over right renal tumor" (resection): Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor seen.

NOTE:

 

Patient Identiﬁcation -

 

Page 1 of 5

 

 

Kidnev Nephrectomv Summaly Table Macroscopic

Specimen Type: Partial nephrectomy.
Laterality: Right.

Tumor Size: 2.5 cm in largest dimension.
Focality: Multifocal.

Macro Extent of Tumor: Limited to kidney.

Microscopic

Histologic Type: Clear cell.
Histologic Grade: G2.

Extent of Invasion

Primary Tumor(pT): pT1a
Regional Lymph Nodes(pN): pNX
Distant Metastisis(pM): pMX
Margins: Cannot be assessed

CLINICAL INFORMATION: 111

Pre-Operative Diagnosis: right renal masses Post-Operati
111

right renal masses Operative Findings: lower and midpol
111

tumors, several cystic lesions

222

PROCEDURE:

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. TUMOR, Right renal #1
. TUMOR, Right lower pole

. CYST, Right lower pole # 1

. CYST, Right renal - 2

. CYST, Right renal - 3

. CYST, Right renal - 4

. CYST, Right renal — 5

. CYST, Right renal - 6

meUI-AOON

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 2 of 5

 

 

9. CYST, Right renal - 7
10. CYST, Right renal - 8
11. FAT, Over right renal tumor

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received fresh from the OR. are 11 containers labeled with the patient’s name and
medical record number and further described as follows:

1.

“Right renal tumor #1". Procurement was performed on this specimen. It consists of a yellow-tan soft
tissue measuring 2 x 1.7 x 2 cm. The outer surface is inked in black. It is sectioned and the central piece
(without involving inked margin) is procured for UOB lab and the remainin s ecimen is sent to Surgical

Pathology. The procurement was performed by Dr. . In Surgical Pathology,
the specimen is received and is consistent with the above description. It is entirely submitted in white
cassettes labeled . B, and C for permanent processing.

“Right lower pole tumor #2". Procurement was performed on this specimen. It consists of a tan soft
tissue nodule measuring 2.5 x 2 x 2 cm. The outer surface is inked in black. Sectioning reveals a
dark/red hemorrhagic cut surface. A central portion (without involving inked margin) is procured for UOB
Lab and the remaining specimen is sent to Surgical Pathology. The procurement was performed by Dr.

In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received and is consistent with the above
description. It is entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled 252A, B, C, D, and E for
permanent processing.

B, C, D: Area with procurement.

“Right renal lower pole cyst #1". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of a single
white ﬁbrous tissue measuring 1.2 x 1 x 0.3 cm. It is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in white
cassette labeled for permanent processing.

“Right renal lower pole cyst #2". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of two
fragments of soft tissue (white ﬁbrous tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm and red soft tissue measuring
1.4 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm). It is entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled - 1‘4 A and B for
permanent processing.

A: White ﬁbrous tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm.
B: Red soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm.

“Right renal lower pole cyst #3". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of two
fragments of soft tissue (white soft tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm and red/tan soft tissue measuring

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 3 of 5

10.

11.

 

1.2 x 1.2 x 0.9 cm). It is entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled #5 A and B for
permanent processing.

A: White soft tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm.

B: Red/tan soft tissue measuring 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm.

“Right renal upper pole cyst #4". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of a
single white/tan soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely submitted in white cassette labeled
0‘ for permanent processing.

“Right renal mid pole cyst #5”. Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of two
fragments of soft tissue (red soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm and white soft tissue measuring 0.8
x 0.6 x 0.4 cm). It is entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled " A and B for permanent
processing.

A: Red soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm.
B: White soft tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm.

“Right renal cyst #6". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of a single soft tissue
measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. It is entirely submitted in white cassette labeled “8 for
permanent processing.

“Right renal cyst #7". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of a single white/tan
soft tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely submitted in white cassette labeled ”‘9
for permanent processing.

“Right renal cyst #8". Procurement was not performed on this specimen. It consists of a single red/tan
soft tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. It is bisected and entirely submitted in white cassette labeled
‘= for permanent processing.

“Fat over right renal tumor". It consists of multiple fragments of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4 x 1.7 x
1.1 cm in aggregate. It is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in white cassettes labeled
#11A, B, C, D, and E for permanent processing.

No consultants

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

 

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 5 of 5

