SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
Surgical Pathology Report
Amendments:

Reason: Additional Information
Comment: Additional information gross description: Other significant findings.

Diagnosis:
Kidney, right, nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Sarcomatoid features: not identified

Histologic grade (if applicable): 3 (of 4, Fuhrman classification)
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.5 cm, 0.9 cm

Tumor focality: multifocal (revised, see Amendment comment below)
Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or microscopic):
Capsular invasion into perirenal adipose tissue: not identified
Gerota' s fascia: not available for evaluation

Renal sinus: not involved

Maj or veins (renal vein or segmental branches, IVC): not involved
Ureter: not involved

Venous (large vessel): not involved

Lymphatic (small vessel): not involved

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Peri-renal fat: not involved

Renal vein (nephrectomy): not involved

Renal artery: not involved

Ureter (nephrectomy): not involved

Adrenal gland: present, not involved by carcinoma

Lymph nodes: none identified

Other significant findings: none

AJCC Stage: ple pNx pr

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

AMENDMENT COMMENT:

Following case finalization, this specimen was retrieved for use for control blocks, and a second lesion was found, measuring 0.9cm
diameter, without extracapsular invasion. The diagnosis is modified to state "multifocal" instead of "unifocal", as above. The A] CC stage is
unchanged.

Clinical History:
right renal mass.

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled container with the specimen received in formalin.

Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: radical nephrectomy

Side of specimen: right

Size and weight of specimen: The specimen weighs 850 g and measures 25 x 16 x 6.5 cm overall. The kidney measures 14.5 x 8.0 x 7.0 cm,
and the adrenal gland measures 4.5 x 2.4 cm.

Orientation: The external surface of the specimen is inked blue.
Presence/absence of adrenal gland: present see above for dimensions

Tumor description/site: Superior pole. The cut surface of the tumor has a glistening, maroon-hemorrhagic appearance consistent with
necrosis. The tumor has a rounded contour, appears circumscribed, and appears to have a capsule. More viable areas of tumor have a
glistening, golden-brown appearance.

Tumor size: 4.5 x 4.0 x 3.2 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: absent
Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the kidney: conﬁned

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: tumor abuts perirenal adipose tissue, but does not appear to invade perirenal adipose tissue
Gerota' s fascia: tumor grossly does not involve Gerota' s fascia

Renal vein: tumor does not grossly involve renal vein

Ureter: tumor does not grossly involve ureter

Other organs: tumor does not grossly involve the adrenal gland

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: grossly negative
Renal vein: grossly negative

Renal artery: grossly negative

Ureter: grossly negative

Description of kidney away from tumor: Kidney away from the tumor has a glistening, tan-brown appearance which is otherwise
unremarkable.

Lymph nodes (hilar): 2 lymph node candidates are identified

Other significant findings: The specimen is further sectioned to reveal an additional well-circumscribed red/brown/yellow firm mass. The
mass is approximately 5.5 cm from the dominant mass within the lateral aspect and measures 0.9 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm. This mass bulges the
capsule but does not appear to invade through it. Additionally, 1.5 cm lateral to the mass, there is a simple smooth lined cyst 1.2 x 1.0 x 1.0
cm. The cyst is filled with brown thin liquid. A section of this additional mass is submitted in A9 and the slide should be sent to Dr.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes, tumor and normal tissue submitted to tissue procurement
Digital photograph taken:

Block Summary:

A1 - ureter, artery and vein margins, en face

A2 - representative tumor demonstrating proximity to perirenal adipose tissue

A3 - representative tumor demonstrating proximity to adrenal gland

A4 - representative tumor demonstrating proximity to normal appearing parenchyma
A5 - additional tumor demonstrating proximity to ink

A6 - tumor demonstrating proximity to hilar adipose tissue, and renal pelvis

A7 - normal appearing kidney parenchyma away from tumor

A8 - two lymph node candidates

A9 - Additional mass

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by.

Sections show a clear cell carcinoma of kidney with nucleoli identifiable at 10X, interpreted as Fuhrman grade 3.

 

