- 'CGA—66—2790

 

Material examined:

Left lung

Clinical diagnosis and question

Squamous cell carcinoma of left upper lobe (according to histology,-

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Left lung: inﬂated, ﬁxed lung measuring 18.5 x 14.5 cm at the base, up to 23 cm high, central bronchus
resection plane located 3 cm proximal to the division into the lobe bronchi. Main bronchus largely skeletonized.
At the hilus two nodes, l.5 cm and 2.2 cm in size. Visceral pleura, especially in the region of the upper iobe,
predominantly patch blackish pigmentation, in the dorsal region over S6 and SID an area of whitish thickening
measuring about 11 x 4 cm, with an unclear demarcation. Centrally in the upper lobe, a ﬁrm tumor, about 4 cm
in size, obstructing or markedly constricting the upper lobe bronchus and its segmental bronchi, distance of
tumor ﬁom central bronchus resection line 3 cm. In thee tumor margin area several partly tumor—infiltrated
nodes. Distance of tumor from paracentral visceral pleura focally less than 0.1 cm. Bronchi peripheral to tumor
slightly dilated and ﬁlled with mucus. Parenehyma of upper lobe shows small patches of slightly blackish
pigmentation, that of the lower lobe is inconspicuous.

2.) Parietal pleura left: thick-skinned, partly plate-like bone-hard specimen measuring 3 x 2.3 cm and up to 1 cm
thick.

3.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 2.5 cm specimen with four nodes of max. 1.5 cm and one 0.5 cm node.

4.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) left: 1.2 cm node with surrounding tissue.

5.) Low paratracheai LN (station 4) Ieft: 1 cm node.

6.) Subcarinai LN (station 7): 1.7 cm node part.

7.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): four nodes between 0.6 cm and 1.5 cm.

8.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): two nodes, 0.5 cm and 0.9 cm.

9.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 1.5 cm node part.

Examined:
l.) a: Tumor with upper and lower lobe bronchus (lower lobe bronchus marked blue). b: two sections of tumor
with pleura. 0: one section with dilated mucus-ﬁlled bronchi.

d: one section each from 36 (smaller specimen) and 810 (larger specimen) dorsal. e: inﬁltrated nodes in the
tumor margin area (1 section each). f: nodes in the tumor margin area (lamellated). g+hz bronchus and vessel
resection margins as well as smaller hilar node. i. larger hiiar node (lamellated).

2.) 2 sections.

3.) - 9.) All material

17 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS and decalciﬁcation.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVA LUATIO N

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Central bronchopulmonary, histologicaily poorly differentiated, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the
left upper lobe of the lung.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 le pMX VI R0, stage HE. C 34.1, M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosisr’diagnoses:

Bronchiectases peripheral to the tumor in the upper lobe. ReSpiratory brunchiolitis. Slight centroacinar
pulmonary emphysema. Marked ﬁbrous enlargement and slight chronic inﬂammation of the visceral pleura over
S6 and 10 (sample 1:)). Partially calciﬁed, hypocellular ﬁbrotic area of parietal pleura (sample 2.)). Lymph
nodes with reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 3.) to 9.)).

Remark/addendum:

The carcinoma shows central endobronchial growth with a papillary component. It has produced some central
parabronchial and hilar lymph node metastases in the main preparation. The resection margin of the bronchus
and vessels, the visceral pleura, the lower lobe and the lymph nodes of samples 3.) to 9.) are tumor-free.

 

