UUID‘ 99FC2CC9-19F1-43CB-8155-5FED45193e331ac

TCGA- 2V- A9H5- 91A- PR ted c)
III IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIHI |I||I|||IIIII|IIIIIIIII "IIIIIIIIIIIIII" d I40 «3
III IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII III N655 ‘8 J 70/6

Pathology Report Edit, W 05262.?)

 

Final Diagnosis Q¢> él/Q ?/14
A GALLBLADDER. EXCESION:
- Chronic sholecystitis
B Lil‘s/ER: HEPATIC SEGMENIS 5 AND 6. RESECTION:
- Hepatocellular caminoma.
- See keypathologic ﬁndings-

- Surgical margins are not involved

I the attending pathologist: personaily reviewed all slides

and. I or materials and. rendered the final diagnosis Electmnically Signed
Out: by

Ancillary Studies

Imm unostains with adequate controls are positive for alpha-fetoprotein, HepPart {focal}, MUC'I
(focal), pCEA (focal) and MOO—31. The polyclonal SEA does not show unequivocal evidence or
intercellular canallcular pattern. Additionally. the tumor cells are negative for 6K7, CKZO, CD10,
MUG—5, wr—r, calcitonin, Tl'F—l, thyroglobulin, 963, MUCQ, ER, synaptophysin‘ chromogranin, €056,
CDXZ‘ and inhibinw The ﬁndings are consistent with a hepatoceilular carcinoma.

On the uninvolved liver oerenchyma, the trlchrome, reticulin stains show portal expansion and focal
bringing ﬁbrosis. The PAS and PAB with diastase are unremarkable. The Iron stain does not show
abnormal iron deposits.

Key Pathological Findings

Tumor size: 9}} x 7.8 x Sb em

Histologic type: bepatocellular carcinoma

Histologic grade: grade 2 {Edmondson and Steiner grading system}

Tumor necrosis: absent

Extentof invasion: absent

Perineural invasion; absent

Parenchymal margin: Uninvolved

Venous (large vessel} invasion: absent
tumor at 15 cm form surgical margin.

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Portal inﬂammation with minimal lobular involvement, compatible with chronic hepatitis, grade

1
Portal expansion with focal bridging ﬁbrosis: compatible with stage 2
Iron overload: absent
Lymph nodes; not applicable

Pathologic stage: on, pNX

Specimen“! Received
A NORMAL GAtLBLADBER

B HEPAYIC SEGMENT 5 AND 6 F5

Clinical History
Hepatitis now with hepatocelfular carcinoma.

Preoperative Diagnosis
Hepatocellular carcinoma-

Intraoperative Consultation
FSB. HEPATlC SEGMENT 5 AND 5:

Inked margin free of tumor-
Comment: This frozen section diagnosisr’result was communicated to and acknowledged by
in at
a _, have performed the lntraoperative consultation £5} and issued the above

diagnosis.

Gross Description

A. The specimen is labeled "normal gallbladder: The specimen is received fresh and consists of
a club-shaped gallbladder measuring 11.1} x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. The external surface is tan-pink, smooth on
1 aspect and roughened on the opposite aspect. The cystic dud is identiﬁed measuring 8.5 cm in
length. 0n opening the specimen contains a small amount of green visceral bile. The mucosal
surface-is green-yellow and velvet—like. No calculi is grossly identiﬁed. No tissue is submitted to the
Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections are submitted as A1 .

B. The specimen is received fresh for our consult labeled ”hepatic segment No. 5 and 6, frozen
section“. The specimen consists of a In} gram, 11 .i} x 10.5 x 55 cm resected segmental liver.

The surgical margin resection is marked with. black ink. A palpable mass is grossly identiﬁed with
possible gross involvement of the overlying capsule (blue ink). Serial sections reveal an indurated,
gray—white, welloemarcated intraparenchymal mass {91] x 7.9 x at) cm}. The tumor comes to within
3 .5 cm of the surgical margin of resection grossly. A. representative section of the tumor showing its
relationship to the surgical margin of resection is submitted on from section as FSBt. There is gross
evidence of a blood clot lomted at the surgical margin of resection. The remainder of the cut surface
exhibits grossly unremarkable hepatic parenchyrrra. A representative section of the tumor is submitted
to the Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Permanent representative sections are submitted as:

82: Mirror image of tumor submitted to Tissue Bank

33: Tumor showing its relationship to overlying capsule
.34: Tumor showing its relationship to adjacent parenchyme
8M7: Additional sections of tumor

88: Possible blood clot

89:. Grossly unremarkable parenchyma.

 

