UUID: 20C14AE7-6151-433F -83A5-A1EA6C827EFB

IIIIIllliﬁiililliﬁlhlﬁililiﬁﬁmunmullﬁli'lﬁilte“ 1am. g
lll'll'llll'llllllll'lfillllllllllllll'ill'llllllll'll'll'llll MW Aka?

aﬁab

Q51 JAM/I4

Collection date and time

Clinical Information

Malignant neoplasm of head of pancreas. Pancreatitis, pancreatic adenocarcinoma
Diagnosis
A. PARTIAL PANCREAS AND DUODENUM, WHIPPLE RESECTION:

- Invasive moderately differentiated pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

- Adenocarcinoma measures 2.0 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm.

— Adenocarcinoma extends beyond the pancreas.

— All surgical margins (pancreatic cut margin, bile duct margin, SMA margin, portal vein margin, anterior

pancreatic surface, posterior pancreatic surface, proximal duodenal margin and distal duodenal margin),
uninvolved by malignancy.

— Non-neoplastic pancreatic parenchyma with areas of fat necrosis.
— Twenty regional lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/20).

B. LYMPH NODE, HEPATIC ARTERY, BIOPSY:

— Single lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).
C. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY:

- Gallbladder, without significant pathologic change.

Pathology Staging Summary
Specimen type: Whipple resection
Tumor location: Head of pancreas
Histologic type: Invasive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
Tumor size and invasion of:
Tumor limited to pancreas, 2.0 cm or less: No
Tumor limited to pancreas, greater than 2.0 cm: No
Tumor extends beyond the pancreas, but without involvement of
celiac axis or SMA: Yes
Tumor involves celiac axis or SMA: No
Lymphatic invasion: Not identified
Large vessel invasion: Not identified
Margins:
Common bile duct: Negative
Proximal duodenal margin: Negative

Distal duodenal margin: Negative
Distal pancreatic margin: Negative
Peripancreatic soft tissue margin: Negative
Total regional lymph nodes: 21 Number positive: 0
Pathologic Stage (AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 7th edition): pT3, pNO, MX

Dictated and authenticated by:

Performing Location:

Gross Description

A. WHIPPLE SPECIMEN

Received fresh labeled with the patient name

Specimen received: Duodenum and head of the pancreas

Orientation given: Double stitch on bile duct, single stitch on SMA margin

Integrity: Received intact

Size of pancreas: 5.0 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm

Length of duodenum: 25.0 cm in length

Ducts: The common bile duct and pancreatic duct are patent to the ampulla

Ampulla: The mucosa around the ampulla is finely granular, dusky and brown. There are some
thickened duodenal folds around the ampulla

lnking scheme: Pancreatic cut margin green, SMA margin orange, portal vein margin purple, bile duct
margin yellow, posterior pancreas black, anterior pancreas blue

Tumor site: There is a tumor near the pancreatic cut margin and near the margin of the bile duct
Tumor size: 2.0 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm

Tumor description: lndurated, ill-defined gray-white

Invasion of: The tumor does not extend to the duodenum or involve the bile ducts or pancreatic duct
Distance from margins: 0.3 cm from the pancreatic cut margin close to the portal vein margin, 2.0 cm
from the SMA margin, 4.5 cm from the anterior surface and 2.0 cm from the posterior surface

Remaining specimen: The rest of the pancreas is lobulated, yellow-tan and soft with a few areas of
possible fat necrosis

Lymph nodes: Several lymph nodes are present

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS PERFORMED AT Pancreatic
margin - benign. Bile duct margin — benign. SMA margin - benign.

SECTIONS:

A1. Frozen section control of pancreatic cut margin
A2. Frozen section control of bile duct margin

A3. Frozen section control of SMA margin

A4. Proximal duodenal margin

A5. Distal duodenal margin

A6-7. Ampulla

A8—11. Thickened duodenal folds around the ampulla

A12. Sections of tumor closest to bile duct

A13-14. Tumor

A15. One section of tumor perpendicular to portal vein margin
A16-17. Two sections perpendicular to portal vein and SMA margin
A18-20. Additional sections of pancreas and possible pancreatitis
A21. Anterior surface of pancreas

A22. Posterior surface of pancreas

A23. One common bile duct lymph node

A24. One whole posterior pancreatic lymph node

A25-27. One posterior pancreatic lymph node

A28. Two whole anterior pancreatic lymph nodes

A29. Seven whole SMA lymph nodes

A30. Two bisected SMA lymph nodes, one marked black

A31. Five whole SMA lymph nodes

A32. One bisected SMA lymph node

B. HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE
Received in formalin labeled with the patient name
Description: A 2.0 cm in greatest dimension lymph node

SECTIONS:
Bl. Bisected and entirely submitted

C. GALLBLADDER

Received in formalin labeled with the patient name

Size: 14.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm

Cystic duct: The cystic duct is intact with no surgical clip

Integrity: Received intact

Contents: Thick bile with no choleliths

Mucosa and wall: Velvety green mucosa. The wall measures 0.2 cm in thickness

SECTIONS:
C1. Three sections

Microscopic Description

A. WHIPPLE SPECIMEN: Sections show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consisting of
irregular neoplastic glandular structures lined by columnar epithelial cells with enlarged, more vesicular
nuclei. The adenocarcinoma has an invasive appearance with surrounding stromal response. The
adenocarcinoma involves pancreatic tissue in slides A13 and A14, with extension into peripancreatic soft
tissue in slide A13 and extension up to the bile duct in slide A12 as well as beneath the duct leading up
to the ampulla in slide A7. The pancreatic cut margin, bile duct margin, SMA margin, anterior pancreatic

surface, posterior pancreatic surface, portal vein margin, proximal duodenal margin and distal duodenal
margin are all uninvolved by malignancy.

The non-neoplastic pancreatic parenchyma shows areas of fat necrosis.

Twenty regional lymph nodes are examined, all of which are negative for malignancy. A nodular focus of

fibrosis and fat necrosis is present in slide A29; this focus shows absence of staining for keratin AE1/AE3
and positive staining for CD68.

B. HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE: Sections show a single lymph node which is negative for malignancy.

C. GALLBLADDER: Sections of the gallbladder are unremarkable.

Surg Path Non-Chartable Comment

Diagnosis given directly to surgeon over the telephone/speakerphone.
Edited by:

M... II!) \\\»\\~t

 

Diagnosis Discrepancy I

 

 

 

 

PI Emarv Tumor Site Discrepancy

 

 

 

HIPM Discrepantv ﬂ I' U!
Priar‘ Hlstorv %%13 I} /
ted

Mai/Synchronous P\iqa L

\ \\\§

 

) .
Case Mcirsle): mun / souA I
Reviewer Initials ate Reviewed: /

\‘V

 

 

 

