  

CGA—ﬁﬁ—2737

 

Material examined:

Right middle lobe, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma right middle lobe, status post NHL right cervical-

REPORT ON FiNDINGS

Macrosccpy

l.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 2.5 cm fatty specimen with 2 nodes, 2.5 and 1.2 cm, section surface of larger
grayish-black and of smaller pale reddish node with 5 mm whitish focus.

1.) Right middle lobe: inflated, ﬁxed bilobectorny preparation measuring 18 x 16 em, up to 17 cm high. Central
bronchus resection plane located 1 cm proximal to the division into the lobe bronchi. At the hilus two black
nodes, 1.2 cm and 0.9 cm in size. Dorsal to the intermediate bronchus a staple suture line runs 7.5 cm in a
cranial direction to the apex of the lower lobe, and a second staple suture line runs 10 cm ﬁom the hilus along
the cranial margin of the middle lobe. Lateral pleura over S4 shows a star—shaped area of retraction measuring
2.5 cm, with a pale brown discoloration in the marginal region, under this a tumor, max. 6.5 cm in size, with a
polycyclic demarcation, obstructing the middle lobe bronchus in the proximal sections and extending to within
1.5 cm of the bronchus resection margin. Spread to the pleura in the area of its retraction, section surfaces pale
brown to gray, partly with blackish pigmentation. Mucosa in the region of the ostium of the middle lobe
bronchus and the adjoining intermediate bronchus extending irregularly to the resection margin. Lung
parenchyma of remaining middle lobe and lower lobe inconspicuous.

3.) Bronchial sleeve: 2 cm segment of bronchus with 2 cm resection margin to the main bronchus (line marked)
and LI cm resection margin tot he upper lobe bronchus. Distal end closed by metal staple suture.

4.) Upper and middle lobes: two 2 cm irregular biack nodes or node parts.

5.) Lobar LN (station 12) right: 1 cm node.

6.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 8 mm node with surrounding tissue.

7.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) right: three node between 0.5 and 1 cm with surrounding tissue

8.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3) right:

Examined:

1.) Rapid section remains and 1 further section each,

2.) Bronchus resection margin tangential and rapid section remains, 2 sections middle lobe bronchus proximal
to tumor obstruction, 1 section of tumor middle lobe bronchus closure and parabronchial lymph nodes, 2
sections of tumor with pleura, 1 section SS, 1 section 810, vessel resection margins and nodes,

3.) Resection margin to main bronchus tangential, resection margin to upper lobe bronchus tangential, cross
section close to distal resection margin,

4.) — 7.) All material (in 4. — 6. halved in each case),

15 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS.

 

Microscopy

Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma.

After parafﬁn embedding.

Lymph node sections with extensive inﬁltration by atypical epithelia arranged in differing sizes of partly
branched and vaguely epidermoid or concentrically layered solid structures. Moderately wide to wide, pale to
moderately eosinophilic cytoplasm. Focally recognizable intercellular bridges. Nuclei round to oval, partly with
somewhat irregular contours, mostly moderately, but focally also markedly anisomorphic, with enlarged
chromatin, differing sizes of nucleoli and numerous mitoses. Surrounding desmoplastic stroma. Small focal
inclusion of necrosis.

Re 2.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation_): squamous cell dysplasia up to severity of a squamous
cell carcinoma in situ with spread to bronchial glands, no evidence of invasive growth rapid sections.

Aﬁer parafﬁn embedding.

Tumor made up of atypical epithelia described in 1.). Focal dyskeratoses or vague pearly bead formation.
Isolated nuclei also deformed. Multifocal necroses of differing extent. Middle lobe bronchus segmentally
obstructed by the tumor and in large parts destroyed, here continuous inﬁltration ofparabronchial lymph nodes.
Spread to the visceral pleura, which is markedly enlarged by ﬁbrosis in parts, but not unequivocally inﬁltrated.
In many places invasion of small blood vessels in the tumor and tumor margin. Proximal to the tumor
obstruction in the middle lobe bronchus and also at the bronchus resection margin partial replacement of the
respiratory epithelium by enlarged atypical squamous epithelium extending to the secretory ducts and bronchial
glands with the squamous disorder mostly reaching well into the upper third or to the surface. Nuclei irregularly
arranged, in most cases slightly to moderately anisomorphic, but with foci of relatively marked anisomorphism,
and formation here and there of keratin lamellae and pearly beads. Vessel resection margins and hilar lymph
nodes tumor—ﬂee. In SS incompletely inﬂated alveolar lung tissue in parts with relatively extensive intraalveolar
erythrocyte extravasates.

Otherwise in many places the alveolar lumina and partly also the lamina of bronchioles are occupied with
moderately dense macrophages, some transformed into foam cells, some pale brown and with ﬁne granular
blackish pigmentation. In multifocal parabronchial vessels and in interlobular septa lymph follicles and small
patches of relatively dense lymphomonocytic inﬁltrates. In 81 0 mostly only a few intraalveolar macrophages.
Re 3.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _ resection margin to main bronchus + upper lobe
bronchus in each case tumor-free and free of dysplastic epithelial lesions.

After paraffin embedding:

Bronchial sections with focal replacement of respiratory epithelium by immature squamous epithelium at the
margin to the main and upper lobe bronchus. Str'oma with increase in elastic ﬁbers. To some extent somewhat
prominent seromucous glands. Strands of typical hyaline cartilage. Close to the distal resection margin only
Sections of atypical squamous epithelium preserved or registered at the surface as described under 2.), here
likewise focal spread in glandular ducts.

Re 4.) - 7.) Lymph nodes with intact basic structure, inconspicuous lymphatic cell content with formation of
activated follicles and slight to moderate deposits of blackish granular pigment and some small anisotropic
particles within macrophages.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses: relatively large, central to peripheral bronchopulmonary, histologically
moderately differentiated, large-cell, slightly keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the middle lobe.

TNM classiﬁcation pT2 le. V1 R0, stage HE.

C 34.2 M 807013

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses: slight chronic retention pneumonia peripheral to the tumor in SS. Lymph
nodes with uncharacteristic reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 2.) and 4.) — 7.)).
Remark/addendum: the tumor shows obliterative segmental growth in the middle lobe bronchus and has
Spread to the mucosal surface right to the central bronchus resection line of sample 2.) and to the distal sections
of repeat bronchial resection material in sample 3.). The resection margin tot he main and upper lobe bronchus
of sample 3.) is free of dysplastic epithelial changes. Lymph node metastases are seen in sample 1.) and
parabronchially in sample 2.). The other lymph nodes removed and the vessel resection margins of the main
preparation are tumor-free. An unequivocal infiltration of the visceral pleura cannot be demonstrated.

 

