SURGICAL PATHOLOGY . .
fiubﬁgﬁihahhiﬂ%053 572°AB
Case Number: 6113 6677‘

Diagnosis: 2%; 22;( 7 (Q2;

A: Ureter, right margin, biopsy

- No tumor seen a) 9/27/73

B: Ureter, left margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen
C: Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy

UUID:8056AE41-2AOC-4DBZ-571E-985c35762FFF
TCGA-CU-A72E-91A-PR Rﬁlllilm-"ted

: d' l t t
Ia (Hlh'h'l'l'l'd'n'lh'ﬂh'lﬁﬂ'd'llH'i'u'ﬂiﬂ'lﬂﬂfﬂﬂWinnm
Bladder‘ ||||||||||||l||l|||||||||||||||lIHIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllll
Tumor histologic type: urothelial carcinoma
Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification): high grade

Microscopic tumor size (greatest dimension): 4 cm

Microscopic extent of invasion: Tumor invades through muscularis
propria into perivesical adipose tissue, extensively.

Tumor site/focality of tumor: unifocal, posterior wall, left
lateral wall, trigone (one large contiguous tumor)

Angiolymphatic space invasion: present, extensive
Associated epithelial lesions: not identified
Ureters: No tumor seen, bilateral

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Ureter, left: free of tumor

Ureter, right: free of tumor

Urethra: free of tumor

Paravesicular soft tissue: closest margin is 1.5 mm from this
margin

Other significant findings: ulceration is present overlying the
invasive cancer

Lymph nodes: Metastatic urothelial carcinoma is present in a
total of 6 of 41 lymph nodes. This lymph node count includes 3
of 3 positive lymph nodes from perivesicular nodes, and 2
positive nodes from the left pelvic region, and 1 positive node
from the right pelvic region.

Size and location of largest lymph node metastasis: 2.5 cm, left
perivesicular lymph node

Extracapsular extension: present, extensive

Diagnoses of other organs or structures: See prostate template
below.

AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage: pT3b pN2

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Prostate:

Tumor histologic type: adenocarcinoma

Tumor grade (Gleason system): 6 (3+3)

Approximate percentage of prostate involved by tumor: less than
5%

Extent of tumor:

Location of tumor involvement in prostate: left apex
Confinement/non—confinement of tumor within the prostatic
capsule: tumor confined to prostate capsule

Lymphovascular space invasion: not identified

Seminal vesicles (invasion of muscular wall required): No tumor
seen, bilateral

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Surgical margins free'
of prostate carcinoma.

Other significant findings: Benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Lymph nodes: All lymph nodes are negative for prostate
carcinoma.

AJCC Staging:
pT2A
pNO (for prostate cancer)

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen
and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

D: Lymph node, left pelvic, regional resection
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma present in two of seventeen
lymph nodes

E: Lymph node, right pelvic, regional resection
- Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one of twenty—one lymph
nodes

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by Dr. in OR #
Specimen delivery time is (A) and - (B).

FSAl: Ureter, right margin, biopsy
— No carcinoma identified

FSBl: Ureter, left margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Drs. on at (A)
Drs. on at . (B)

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
-year-old male with muscle invasive urothelial carcinoma, high
grade, involving lamina propria and muscularis propria.

Gross Description:

Received are five appropriately labeled containers. Specimens A
and B are received fresh for frozen section.

Container A is additionally labeled "right ureteral margin for
frozen section." It consists of a 3 mm length x 3 mm
circumference white/tan tubular segment with attached fat. The
specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section and
resubmitted in block FSAl; fat remains in the container.

Container B is additionally labeled "left ureter margin for
frozen section." It consists of a 4 mm in length x 5 mm in

diameter white/tan tissue fragment with a partial lumen and
attached fatty tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted

for frozen section and resubmitted in block FSBl. The remaining
fat is submitted for permanent section in block 82.

Container C is additionally labeled "bladder and prostate."
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen(s) received: radical cystoprostatectomy

Size of overall specimen: 25 cm x 14 cm x 7 cm

Size of urinary bladder: 7 x 6 x 5 cm

Size of additional organs: Prostate: 4.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. Seminal
vesicles are present, size cannot be determined.

Orientation: Inking: right perivesicular=blue, left
perivesicular=black, distal urethral margin=yellow

Tumor size: 4 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm

Tumor description: The mucosal surface of the tumor is ulcerated
and erythematous, the cut surface is tan/white, nodular, firm
and ill—defined.

Tumor location: posterior and left lateral bladder, extending
from the trigone to 4 cm superior to the ureteral orifice

Distance of tumor to margins: Distal urethral margin, 4 cm;
perivesicular fat, 0.3 cm; left ureter margin, 1.4 cm; right
ureter margin, 3.5 cm

Other mucosal lesions: none

Description of other organs or structures: Attached to the left
lateral perivesicular fat is a 5.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm lymph node. In
addition, adjacent to this there is a 2.5 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm lymph
node candidate. The cut surface reveals that it is grossly
positive for Tumor. The prostate has an unremarkable cut surface
with mild amount of cystic change and a few small nodules.

Digital photograph taken: not taken

Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes, to

Block Summary: (Inking: right perivesicular=blue, left
perivesicular=black, distal urethral=yellow)

C1 — right ureter margin

C2 - left ureter margin

C3-C5 — distal urethral margin, radial sections

C6 - left ureteral orifice

C7 - right ureteral orifice

C8 - trigone, perpendicular

C9,C10 - one lymph node candidate attached to the left
perivesicular fat,

grossly positive

C11 — one lymph node candidate

C12-C25 largest lymph node candidate attached to the left
perivesicular fat, serially sectioned

C26 — additional indurated fat adjacent to the largest lymph
node

C27 — tumor closest to the black inked perivesicular fat margin,
posterior bladder

C28 - trigone, and attached fat

C29 - tumor at the left lateral bladder wall

C30 normal right side of bladder

C31 left prostate apex

C32 — left posterior mid prostate

C33,C34 — left prostate base, left seminal vesicle in C34
C35 — right prostate apex

C36 — right mid prostate, posterior

C37 — right prostate base, with right seminal vesicle
Tissue remains in formalin.

Container D is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node." It
consists of a 5 x 5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of adipose tissue and
lymph node candidates. Numerous lymph node candidates are
identified, ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

D1,D2 - one lymph node, serially sectioned
D3,D4 ~ one lymph node, serially sectioned
D5 — one lymph node

D6 - one lymph node, bisected

D7 — three lymph nodes

D8 — one lymph node, bisected

D9 - three lymph nodes

D10 — one lymph node, bisected

D11 - three lymph nodes

D12 - three lymph nodes

Container E is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node."
It consists of a 6 x 6 x 3 cm aggregate of adipose tissue and
lymph node candidates. Numerous lymph node candidates are
identified ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

E1-E5 - one lymph node, serially sectioned
E6—E8 — one lymph node, serially sectioned
E9—E12 ~ one lymph node, serially sectioned
E13-E14 — one lymph node

E15-E16 - one lymph node

E17 — one lymph node

E18-E19 — one lymph node, serially sectioned
E20 — one lymph node

E21 — one lymph node

E22—E25 — one lymph node per cassette

E26 — four lymph nodes

E27 — four lymph nodes

Cufﬁnkm W W M
hwhulﬁd.ns‘ _

"“1 ”‘4'er ’b‘P— +u rash

ace >90 Ms gm, inau

loco

PM? dial 23:6“

  
   

Crheria
-i..__.— .
D-agrmsl: Dmrepanq '

Pr (ma! v T .mmréfe Discrepmcv

 

   

