UUID: D5CBCC7E- BADE- 457C- AC31- -CC138C8C794eCd
TCGA- HC- ASAN- BlA-P

W Il IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIIIIIIIcad
IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII I IIIII IIIIIIII IIIII
|||||||||||||||||||||||||I||||||||II|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

TEST: Surgical Pathology.

Collected Date & Time:
Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology SURGICAL P W 140 ,0 .3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

6764mm 3/405
Patient Name:
Accession #
Med. Rec. #: ‘ WHO-S g’LICID/é’
Billing Type: 9
Location: 5% W Chive,

DOB: v- (Age:
Service:

Gender: M

Billing

Taken Received Reported: m

Phys;c1an(s].
Specimenis) Received

A: Right iliac and obturator lymph nodes
B: Prostate

Pathologic Diagnosis

A Right iliac and obturator lymph nodes:
— One benign lymph node (0/1).
E Prostate, prostatectomy:
— Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason grade 4 + 3 (sum = 7).
There is extensive involvement of gland bilaterally with

approximately 20% of the gland showing involvement by tumor.
- Focal extraprostatic extension is identified at the right
apex and right anterior prostate. This consists of two small foci
of tumor within fat, each meaSuring approximately 1—2 mm.
— Tumor is identified at the surgical margin at the right
anterior prostate (1 mm) and posteriorly on both the right and
left sides as a few foci all < 1mm .
- Beniqn seminal vesicles.
SYNOPTIC REPORT: PROSTATE GLAND, RADICAL PROSTATECTOMY
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy
Prostate Size:

Weight: 29 g

Size: 4.0 x 3.8 x 3.0 cm
Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph node dissection
Histologic Type: Adenooarcinoma
Histologio Grade/Gleason Pattern:

Primary Pattern: 4

Secondary Pattern: 3

Tertiary Pattern: Not applicable

Total Gleason Score: 7
Tumor Quantitation:

Proportion of prostate involved by tumor: 20%
Extraprostatic Extension: Present, focal, right apex
Seminal Vesicle Invasion: Not identified
Margins: Involved by invasive carcinoma, focal anterior and
posterior

”WWW

W Pagez of3

Treatment Effect on Carcinoma: Not identified

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Perineural Invasion: Present

PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT3a NO MX

NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution's Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage
is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is
only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.

The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon's
operative report.

Primary Pathologist:
Wlectronically Signed Out by:

Clinical History
Prostate cancer.
Intraoperative Consultation

A. Right iliac and obturator lymph nodes: One benign lymph node
(microscopic evaluation).

Gross Description

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "right iliac and
obturator lymph nodes" is a single lymph node measuring 3.2 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is inked yellow and entirely
submitted in cassette AlFS.

B. Received in formalin labeled "prostate" is a 29 gram, 4.0 cm
from left to right, 3.8 cm from anterior to posterior, 3.0 cm
from apex to bladder neck margin prostatectomy specimen with
attached right seminal vesicle (3.0 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm), right vas
deferens (2.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm}, left seminal vesicle (3.0 x 1.5 x
1.0 cm), left vas deferens (3.0 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm). The prostate is
inked as follows: the right prostate is inked blue, the left
prostate is inked black and bladder neck margin is inked yellow.
The prostate is serially sectioned from apex to bladder neck
margin to reveal a 2.0 cm in greatest dimension firm, white—tan
lesion located in the right posterior and anterior prostate. The
lesion does not grossly cross the midline into the left posterior
prostate. The lesion grossly abuts the blue—inked margin. There
are other discrete nodules or masses grossly identified and the
remaining prostate parenchyma is pink—tan. Ninety percent (90%)
of the specimen is submitted in cassettes 81-820.

Sections are submitted as follows:

Bl-BZ - right apex, perpendicularly cut;

B3—B4 - left apex, perpendicularly cut;

BS—BS - right bladder neck margin, perpendicularly cut:

B7—BE - left bladder neck margin, perpendicularly cut;

39 - right seminal vesicle insertion point and cross section
through right seminal vesicle and vas deferens;

310 - left seminal vesicle insertion point and cross section
through right seminal vesicle and vas deferens;

Bll — right anterior prostate;

BlZ—BlS — right posterior prostate, from apex to bladder neck
margin;

Bl6 — left anterior prostate;

WW

W Paw”

317-B20 — left posterior prostate, from apex to bladder neck
margin.

Microscopic Description
Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The

pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic
findings of this case.

    

Inte

   

retation performed at

   
   

f immune is co emistry or in 31 b 1dization was used the

following applies: This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristic determined ray/”W It
has not been cleared or approve by the . . 00 a g

Administration (FDA). The FDA does not require this test to go
through premarket FDA review. This test is used for clinical
purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing. All special stains
used have adequate controls.

I.) 515/3 ,

n:a:rusn DISEIEI: .ncy

 

 

Pr'L .alyl’umor Sin», D)screpaucv
' 1PM. Oscrrepanty
Mar Maiignamy‘ﬂistnry

End/Synchronous Hump) m

 

 

 

 

W35

 

 

 

 

 

 

onus ulna): (Lune an ;/ ms U1lumu _
haunw with!“ Dale Renewed 5‘ Ii f
, . - T \ )I 939},

 

 

 

