 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

- Final]

Path Report Final

SURGICAL PATHWRT

ACCESSION NO. :

Final Diagnosis(es):

(A) Liver biopsy:

1) Mild mixed portal inflammation with focal bile duct
proliferation.

2) Mild portal expansion by fibrosis with focal fibrous
septa.

3) Negative for malignancy.

(B) Left tube and ovary, salpingo-oophorectomy:

1) Ovary with dermoid cyst.

2) Fallopian tube with endosalpingiosis

3) Negative for malignancy.

(C) Falciform ligament, biopsy:

1) Benign fibrovascular and adipose tissue.

2) Negative for malignancy.

(D) Peritoneal mass, biopsy:

1) Hyalinized nodule with dystrophic calcification.

2) Negative for malignancy.

(E) Lymph nodes, heptoduodenal area, biopsy: Five lymph nodes,
negative for malignancy (0/5).

(F) Lymph node, portal area, biopsy. One lymph node, negative
for malignancy (0/1).

(G) Lymph node, posterior portal area, biopsy: One lymph node,
negative for malignancy (0/1).

(H) Lymph nodes, anterior portal area, biopsy: Two lymph
nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2).

(I) Common bile duct, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(J) Pancreatic margin, biopsy: Positive for pancreatic
adenocarcinoma.

(K) Pancreas, distal stomach, duodenum, gallbladder, common
bile duct, Whipple' s resection:

1) Invasive pancreatic adenocarcinoma, moderately
differentiated.

2) The tumor measures 5.0 cm in greatest dimension.

3) The surgical margins are negative for involvement by
malignancy.

4) Eight lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/8).

4) Pathologic staging: pT3NO.

5) See Synoptic Report below.

(L) Pancreatic margin, new, biopsy:

1) Atypical focus of glandular epithelium.

2) Extensive chronic pancreatitis.

(M) Pancreas, distal, resection:

1) invasive pancreatic adenocarcinoma, moderately
differentiated.

-" Printed from: Default
Page: 1 M7

 

 

 

 

 

—R

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

2) Extensive chronic pancreatitis.
Synoptic Report:

Specimen:

Head of pancreas.

Body of pancreas.

Tail of pancreas.

Duodenum.

Stomach, distal.

Common bile duct.

Gallbladder.

 

 

 

 

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple's resection), total

pancreatectomy.

Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.

Tumor Size:

Greatest Dimension: 5 cm.

Additional Dimensions: 5 x 4.5 cm.
Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma.

Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated.

Microscopic Tumor Extension:

Tumor invades ampulla of Vater.

Tumor invades duodenal wall.

Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissues.

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

Lymphvascular Invasion: Not identified.
Perineural invasion: identified.
Pathologic Staging:

Primary Tumor: pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but
without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior

mesenteric artery.

Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO

Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 17

Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 0

Distant Metastasis: Not applicable.

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Chronic pancreatitis, extensive.

High grade PanlN.

This case has been reviewed and the diagnoses
‘ departmental surgical pathology staff.

approved by

' The gross description and all microscopic slides have been

  

Specimen(s) Received:
A: Liver biopsy

B: Left tube and ovary
C; Falciform ligament

reviewed and inter reted b the undersi ned pathologist

Fina”

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 2 of 7

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

D: Peritoneal mass

E: Hepatic duodenal lymph nodes

F: Portal LN

G: Posterior portal LN

H: Anterior portal LN

l: Common Bile Duct

J: Pancreatic margin

K: Whipple‘s specimen

L: New pancreatic margin

M: Pancreas

Clinical History:

Pancreatic cancer.

lntraoperative Consultation:

Time Received:

Time Reported:

FSA1: Liver biopsy: Benign fibrinosis (1 block).
FSB1: Left tube and ovary7: Mature teratoma (1 block).
FSD1: Peritoneal mass: Benign fibrosis(1 block).
FSl1: Common bile duct: Negative(1 block).
FSJ1: Pancreatic margin: Positive (1 block).
FSL1: New pancreatic margin:

Chronic pancreatitis. Focus suspicious for perineural

    

Gross Description:
(A) (liver biopsy) Received fresh for lntraoperative

consultation are two tanewhite tissue fragments measuring up to
1.2 cm in greatest dimension and two tan-brown tissue cores
measuring up to 1.0 cm in length. The two tan-white tissue
fragments are submitted entirely in cassette FSA1. The two
tan-brown tissue cores are submitted entirely in cassette A2.

(B) (left tube and ovary) Received fresh for lntraoperative
consultation is one ovary and fallopian tube measuring as

follows: The left fallopian tube measures 4.0 cm in length with

an average diameter of 0.5 cm, the left ovary measures 9.5 x 8.0
x 8.0 cm. The surface of the ovary is tan-brown and pink with
numerous cystic excrescences measuring up to 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. in addition, several firm, tan-white protruding

nodules measuring up to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension are also
identified on the surface of the ovary. Opening of the ovary
demonstrates soft friable tan-white material admixed with
numerous strands of tan-brown hair, smooth interior lining. One
rubbery firm nodule adherent to the interior surface measures up
to 0.3 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning of this nodule
demonstrates a smooth tan-yellow cut surface without hemorrhage

_ Printed from: Default
Page: 3 of7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Final]

or necrosis. The average thickness of the wall measures up to
0.7 cm. A representative section of the wall is submitted in
cassette FSB1. The left fallopian tube demonstrates a smooth
pink-tan serosa with no identifiable masses or lesions. The
fimbriated end is identified and is unremarkable. The remainder
of the specimen is submitted as follows:

82—86 — additional sections of ovary

B? — fimbriated end submitted entirely

B8 - distal end of fallopian tube

89 - proximal end of fallopian tube

(C) (falciform ligament) Received in formalin is one soft
tan-pink, smooth section of tissue with associated soft
tan—yellow adipose tissue measuring 7.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The
specimen is soft and rubbery with no identified masses and/or
lesions. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted
in cassette C1-C3.

(D) (peritoneal mass) Received fresh for lntraoperative
consultation is one tan~whlte section of tissue measuring 0.3 x
0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette
FSD1.

(E) (hepatic duodenal lymph nodes) Received in formalin are
four tan-brown sections of tissue measuring up to 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension with an overall aggregate dimension of 3.0 x
2.5 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is submitted as follows:

E1 — one lymph node bisected submitted entirely

E2 - one lymph node bisected submitted entirely

E3 - one lymph node bisected submitted entirely

E4 - all remaining tissue submitted entirely

(F) (portal lymph node) Received in formalin is one soft,
tan-brown lymph node measuring 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm. The specimen
is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette F1.

(G) (posterior portal lymph node) Received in formalin is one
soft, tan—brown lymph node measuring 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm. The
specimen is bisected along the long axis and submitted entirely
in cassette G1.

(H) (anterior portal lymph node) Received in formalin is one
tan-yellow lymph node measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The
specimen is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette H1.

(l) (common bile duct) Received fresh for lntraoperative
consultation is one circular section of tan—brown tissue
measuring 0.9 cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted
entirely in cassette 11.

(J) (pancreatic margin) Received fresh for intraoperative
consultation is one section of soft tan-white tissue measuring
2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is oriented with one stitch
marking the margin of interest. The specimen is bisected and
submitted entirely in cassettes FSJ1 and FSJ2.

(K) (Whipple specimen) Received in formalin is one section of

.— . Printed from: Default
. Page: 4 of 7

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[—

distal stomach, duodenum, gallbladder with bile duct, and head
of pancreas as one intact specimen. The individual components
measure as follows: The stomach measures 10.5 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm,
the duodenum measures 26.0 cm in length with an average diameter
of 2.0 cm, the gallbladder measures 8.0 cm x 2.5 cm x 1.5 cm.
The bile duct measures 5.0 cm in length with an average diameter
of 0.7 cm, identifiable unremarkable pancreas measures 2.0 x 1.7
x 1.7 cm. Also accompanying the specimen is soft tan-yellow
fibroadipose tissue associated with the stomach and proximal
duodenum. The serosal surface of the stomach is tan-brown,
glistening and smooth with no identifiable masses and/or

lesions. Opening of the stomach shows a smooth tan-pink mucosa
with no identifiable masses and/or lesions. Opening of the
duodenum longitudinally demonstrates a fungating tan—brown, firm
lesion centered around the ampulla measuring 3.0 x 2.0 cm. The
lesion at the ampulla is approximately 6.0 cm from the pyloric
sphincter and greater than 10.0 cm from the distal duodenal
resection margin. The remainder of the small bowel mucosa is
tan-brown and smooth with no identifiable masses and/or lesions.
The serosa of the duodenum is tan—brown, glistening and smooth
with no identifiable masses and/or lesions. Approximating the
fungating mass at the ampulla and adjacent to the
morphologically identifiable pancreas is a firm,

well-circumscribed mass measuring 5.0 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm. The
serosal surface of the gallbladder is tan-brown, smooth and
glistening. Opening of the gallbladder reveals a wall that
measures 0.2 cm in thickness. The gallbladder mucosa is
yellow-green and velvety. The gallbladder contains yellowgreen
viscous bile and several soft fn'able yellow-green stones
measuring up to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning of the
mass demonstrates a rubbery firm, tan-white cut surface. The
specimen is submitted as follows:

K1~K2 - gastric resection margin, en face

K3 - representative section of stomach

K4-K5 ~ distal duodenal resection margin

K6 - representative section of duodenum

K7 - representative sections of gallbladder wall and bile duct

K8 - uncinate margin

K9 - section of mass at ampulla to include opening of bile duct
K10-K12 ~ full section cut through ampulla, small bowel and head
of pancreas

K13-K14 - additional sections of tumor

K15 — three lymph nodes submitted entirely

K16 - one possible lymph node bisected submitted entirely
K17—K18 — one possible lymph node bisected submitted entirely
K19 - two possible lymph nodes submitted entirely

K20 - three possible lymph nodes submitted entirely

K21 - one possible lymph node submitted entirely

Final]

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 5 of 7

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

(L) (new pancreatic margin) Received in formalin is one
section of rubbery firm, tan-white nodular tissue measuring 2.5

x 2.0 x 0.9 cm. One black stitch marks the margin of interest.
An en face section at the plane of interest is submitted in
cassette FSL1. The margin of interest is inked black. The
specimen is sectioned perpendicularly to the margin of interest
and representative sections are submitted in cassettes L2-L4.
(M) (pancreas) Received in formalin is one rubbery firm
section of tan-yellow pancreas and associated soft tan-yellow
adipose tissue measuring 1.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm. The surface of the
pancreas is tan-yellow and smooth. Two black stitches flank the
plane of resection which demonstrates a nodular tan—yellow cut
surface. Serial sectioning of the pancreas along the short axis
at 0.2 to 0.3 cm intervals demonstrates smooth nodular tan—white
cut surface. Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted as follows:

M1-M2 - proximal representative sections

M3—M4 - representative sections taken from middle of tail

Wepresentative sections of distal tail

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.-

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of IH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

Histo athol Laborato in the Department of Pathology at the
“They have not been cleared by the US
Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR‘s. These

tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical

care. In cases where lmmunohistochemistry testing is performed,
the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used
to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(31G7), ER(SP1),
PR(1E2), Her2neu(485), CD117(Poly), CD20(L26).

Unless othenivise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by IHC, Her2 by IHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER, PR, Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her—2/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is

scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 6 of 7

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

— Surgical Pathology (Copath) ! Final]

proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

End of Report Page: 7 of 7

   

 

