UUID: 84479931- 4C96- 473A- SECE- 71AC5080F95eE
TCGA- EO- ASAS- 01A- PR

Ill IIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIlIIIIIEd , W
IIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III III ‘

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Patient Nﬂm'.‘ ’ Awession t

MRN: Service: ‘ ‘ Coliemd:

DOB: h wait. Received: b
Gender - Lon-non: h Reported: 4 ’
HCN: Facility. -

Ordering MD:

Copy To: i

Spggyge rim Received
1 Son- ﬂssue: Left Fallopian Tube and Ovary

2. Solt- ﬁssue: Right Fallopian Tube and Ovary
3. Uterus: Uterus and cervix

 

 

Diagnosis
1. Left Fallopian Tube and Ovary: / C A - a — 3
Ovary- Surface adhesions, negative for tumor

Fallopian tube- Negative for tumor ' ~ ' I N“
MQMWuW, 1W” ’ 1 ”Li

.. 2. Right Fallopian Tube and Ovary: f 9 £0 '
Ovary- Surface adhesions, negative for tumor I

Fallopian tube- Negative for tumor 3 r h J [WWW C 5 1 _ I

3. Uterus and cervix: . M
Endometiai adenomrcinoma, endometn'oid type, FIGO grade 3/3 with: ”

I-nvasion into inner half of myometrlum I g i ll 3]]

Positive for involvement of cervix (glandular)
-No diagnostic evidence of lymphovascular space invasion
-Background endometrium: atrophic

 

Please see synoptic report
n D ta
---------------- MACROSCOPlC----------—--~-—
Specimen Type: Total Hysterectomy
Tumor Site: Posterior endometn'um
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.3 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.9x1.8 cm
Other Organs Present Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube
---------------- MICROSCOPIC--------------—-
Histologic Type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, not otherwise characterized
Histologic Grade: Ga: More than 50% nonsquamous solid growth
Myometrial Invasion: invasion Present

 

_ Pageioia

 

 

.4:4-~1U-4—-_ -. M.-- J“ T e

 

  

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ‘
Less than 50% myometrlal invasion

Cervix Involvement Glandular involvement of endocervix

LUS Involvement No

Venous/Lymphatic Invasion: Absent

Nodal Involvement No nodes submitted

Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Primary Tumor (pT): Tumor limited to the glandular epithelium of the endocervix. There is no evidence of
connective tissue stromal invasion.

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 0
Number of regional lymph nodes Involved: 0
Distant Metatstais (pM): pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
Additional Pathologic Findings: None identified
NeoAdjuvant Treatment: Unknown
Collaborative Staging Extension: Not applicable

 

Electronically verified by:
” ’ ‘ ‘ ’ MD

 

D c on
1. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Soft-Tissue: Left fallopian tube and ovary". It consists of a left
ovary with attached fallopian tube/parovan'an tissue, weighing 4.7 g (fresh). The left ovary measures 2.6 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm.
The surface of the ovary appears pale-tan and smooth. Cross sections show corpus albicans. The attached fallopian
tube measures 2.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. The surface of the fallopian tube appears pink-tan and smooth.
Cross sections appear pale-tan and grossly unremarkable. One section from the ovary/fallopian tube has been taken for
tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
1A section of left ovary/fallopian tube, previously submitted by i
18 left ﬁmbria, longitudinally bisected
1C remainder of left fallopian tube, EIT
10 sections of left ovary. adjacent to tissue banking
1E—1G remainder of left ovary. EIT

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Soft-Tissue: Right fallopian tube and ovary". It consists of a right
ovary with attached fallopian tubelparovarian tissue, weighing 6.0 g (fresh). The right ovary measures 2.2 x 1.6 x 0.9 cm.
The surface of the ovary appears pale-tan and smooth. Cross sections show corpus albicans. The attached fallopian
tube measures 2.4 cm in length x 0.6 cm in diameter. The surface of the fallopian tube appears pink-tan and smooth.
Cross sections appear pale-tan and grossly unremarkable. The adjacent parovarian tissue shows multiple cysts, ranging
from 0.1 up to 0.3 cm in diameter (all ﬁlled with while milky ﬂuid). One section from the ovary/fallopian tube has been
taken for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

2A section of right ovary/fallopian tube, previously submitted by

ZB-ZC right ﬂmbrla, longitudinally quadmsected ‘

20 remainder of right fallopian tube,

2E sections of right ovary, adjacent to tissue banking

2F-2H remainder of right ovary.

3. The specimen. labeled with the patients name and as "Uterus: Utenrs and cervix". The specimen is received fresh and
subsequently placed in 10% buffered formalin. It consists of a uterus with attached cervix, weighing 61.5 g (fresh). The
body of the uterus is uniform and measures 6.0 cm Si x 4.2 cm ML x 2.5 cm AP. The serosal surface ls pink-tan and
smooth. The cenrix has a maximum diameter of 2.6 cm. The cervical Os measures 1.0 cm in maximum diameter and has
an oval shape. The uterus is bivalved. Both endolmyometrial layers are not of uniform thickness. Within the endometrial
cavity, a well-circumscribed tumor is identiﬁed measuring 2.9 cm Si x 3.3 cm ML x 1.8 cm AP. The cut surface of the
tumor appears homogeneously white. solid and firm; showing gross invasion into the myometrium. The tumor is located:
1.1 cm from the anterior exocervix, 1.5 cm from the posterior exocervix and 0.6 cm from the closest serosal surface
(anterior aspect). The cervical canal is patent and shows small amounts of mucoid material. The cervix reveals a few

m PageZof3

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report !

/

1" Nabothian cysts, the largest measuring 0.5 cm in diameter. All of the Nabothian cysts are ﬁlled with clear gelatinous
material. Two sections of endometrlal tumor have been taken for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted
as follows:
3A one section of endometrlal tumor, previously submitted by research PA ,

' - 38-30 two full-thicknessltransverse sections of endolmyometrlum (including endometrlal tumor), anterior aspect
303E a hill-lengthlfull thickness section of endolmyometrium (including endometrlal tumor), from endometrial cavity to
exocervix. anterior aspect '
3F-3G a full thickness/transverse section of endolmyometrium (including endometrlal tumor). posterior aspect
3H-3l a full thickness/transverse section of endo/myomeirium (including endometrlal tumor), posterior aspect
3J—3K a full length/full thickness section of endolmyometrium (including endometrlal tumor), from endometrlal cavity to
exocervix, posterior aspect

 
 

 

 

 

— Page 3 of3

 

