 

I Sex:F

REPORT

DATE RECEIVED:
SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED:
Right Periaortic Node
Left Periaortic Node
Left Common

External Iliac Node
Left Obturator Node
Low Right Periaortic
Right Periaortic
Right Common Iliac
Right Obturator

Page 1 of 5

MR’ PTD:
/cA,4/3
waknocwM%#ﬁmlzﬁhVunugIVAS 1471/3
<&ﬁ:pmawwﬁwev CSV/ /Lra%Vn

 

UUID: BF‘BE7F8- 7D37- “232- 3340- FAE14155F25e7d
TCGA- AX- A2H5- 91A- PR

||Hl|llll|l|||||llll|lll|||l|||||lll|l||ll|ll|||||||||||||||||ed
Immmmmmmwmmmmm
memmmhmmmmmmmmmmmmuu

/

/
I

Uterus, Tubes, Ovaries, Cervix
Omentum
. Appendix

beHmOmt-IUOU?

SPECIAL ANATOMIC STUDIES REQUESTED:

PRE/POST 0P DIAGNOSIS: Endometrial cancer

CLINICAL INFORMATION:

OPERATION PERFORMED:
omentectomy

DATE OF OPERATION:
Cytology — peritoneal washings

Abdominal hysterectomy with BSD/nodes,

CULTURES TAKEN? No; Portion to

DATE DICTATED: DATE TRANSCRIBED:

GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in twelve parts.
Part A received unfixed labeled "right periaortic node"
is a 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate oi adipose tissue, containing four-

possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension.
All possible lymph nodes are submitted in A.

Part a received unfixed labeled _ '_ "left periaortic lymph

node" is a 1.3 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm apparent lymph node with a scant amount of
adherent adipose tissue. The lymph node is bisected and entirely
submitted in B.

Part C received unfixed labeled
x 2.5 x 1.0 cm segment of adipose tissue.
identified. Entirely submitted in C.

. "left common" is a 2.5
No lymph nodes are

‘a
v

Department of Pathology

 

PATIENT: .'
PATHOLOGY v: I
s. Locatiom Tumoris located withlntheﬂmdus, lower uterine scgmcntandccrvix.
5. Lymhovascular space invasion is extensive.
7. Cervical involvement by neOplasm: ,.
. ’ ' a. Cervical moon and strorm are extensively involved by neoplasm.
. - _8. Extrauterine involvement by neoplasm: Left and right ovary andfalIOpian tubes are involved by
neoplasm.

. No lymph nodes were identiﬁed in parts A through F.
' 10. Pathological stage: T3: NX MX.

(Electronically signed) -
My signature is attestation that l have pmmlly reviewed 0:: submitted meterialo) and the ubove diagnosis reﬂects that evaluation.

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 4 of 4

Page 2 of 5

Part D received unfixed labeled , ' "external iliac node"
is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of adipose tissue, containing three
possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension.
All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS: 01 - two possible lymph nodes; 02 - one possible
lymph node_(bisected). . _ _, _ ._
Part E received unfixed labeled "left obturator node"

is a 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.8 cm aggregate or adipose tissue, containing two
possible lymph nodes measuring 2.8 cm in greatest dimension each.
Sectioning reveals one lymph node to have a yellow—gray, glistening cut
surface and the other to have a gray-yellow, gritty (grossly positive)

cut surface. One lymph node is entirely submitted and representative
sections of the grossly positive lymph node are submitted.

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS: El through E3 - one possible lymph node: E4 -
representative section of grossly positive lymph node.

Part F received unfixed labeled "low right periaortic"

is a 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm fragment or adipose tissue. No lymph nodes are
identified. Entirely submitted in F.

Part G received unfixed labeled "right periaortic" is a
1.5 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm apparent lymph nude with a scant amount of adherent
adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals a yellow-gray, glistening cut
surface. Entirely submitted in G.

Part B received unfixed labeled "right common iliac" is

a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm segment of adipose tissue, containing a single
possible lymph node measuring 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph
node is entirely submitted in H.

Part I received unfixed labeled "right obturator" is a
3.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow-red adipose tissue, containing
five possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 2.3 cm in greatest
dimension and dense gray nodular tissue aggregating to 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.6
cm. All possible lymph nodes in the nodular tissue are submitted.

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS: I—l - two possible lymph nodes; I-2 through I-4 -
one possible lymph node each (bisected); I-S - nodular tissue.

Part J received unfixed labeled "uterus, tubes,

ovaries, cervix" is a previously opened uterus with attached cervix and
attached bilateral adnexa. The uterus has been previously opened at the
left aspect and across the fundus.

Page 3 of 5

The uterus and attached cervix weigh 112 grams. The uterus measures 8.3
cm from fundus to ectocervix, 5.0 cm laterally and 3.7 cm anterior
posterior aspect. The serosa is pink and smooth. The anterior serosa
is inked blue and the posterior serosa is inked green. The cervix
measures 3.5 cm in diameter The ectocervix is tan-brown, patchy and
smooth. The 03 has been previously opened.. The endocervical_canal is

"' “rrneaasy'a‘tan"mucbsa'wstars—ﬁaapea'appearance-In the Uppﬁf‘ﬁhaoaervIEsI’T‘

canal, involving approximately 50‘ of the length of the canal and coming
within 1.0 cm of the external os.

Endometrium: The endometrial cavity measures 4.0 cm from fundus to
internal os and 3.0 cm laterally. The entire endometrium is replaced by
an exophytic mass measuring up to 1.2 cm in thickness. No gross
invasion into the myometrium is noted.

Myometrium: The myometrium measures 1.8 cm in average thickness and
contains eight apparent leiomyomata ranging from 0.7 to 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. No areas of hemorrhage or necrosis are noted.

Right adnexa: The right fallopian tube measures 5.2 cm in length and
0.5 cm in diameter. The fimbriated end is identified. The across is
pink and smooth. Sectioning reveals a pinpoint lumen. The attached
ovary measures 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm and weighs 2.7 grams. The outer

surface is tan-pink and smooth. Sectioning reveals a pink-white
variegated cut surface. '

Left adnexa:' The left fallopian tube measures 5.8 cm in length and 0.5
cm in diameter. The fimbriated end is identified. The serosa is pink
and smooth.‘ Sectioning reveals a pinpoint lumen. The attached ovary
measures 3.0 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm and weighs 2.5 grams. The outer surface is
tan-pink and smooth. Sectioning reveals a pink-white variegated cut
surface. Representative sections are submitted.

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS: J1 - right parametrial stump; J2 - left
parametrial stump; J3 - anterior lower endocervical canal; J4 - anterior
upper endocervical canal: J5 - posterior lower endocervical canal; J6 -
posterior upper endocervical canal; J7 - anterior lower uterine segment:
J8 - anterior uterine full thickness} J9 - anterior endomyometrium; J10
and Jll - one posterior uterine full thickness each; J12 - uterine full
thickness at fundus; J13 - endomyometrium at fundus; J14 and J15 -
leiomyomata; J16 - right adnexa; J17 - left adnexa.

Part-K received unfixed labeled , "omentum" is a 16 x 9.5
x 1.0 cm segment of adipose tissue (consistent with omentum). No tumors

or lesions are identified. Representative sections are submitted in Kl
through K3.

Part L received unfixed labeled , "appendix" is a 9.0 x
0.6 cm vermiform appendix. The serosa'is pink and smooth with a
generous amount of adherent, focally hemorrhagic adipose tissue.

Sectioning reveals a patent lumen. Representative sections are
submitted in L.

MICROSCOPIC: Microscopic examination is performed.

”lymphvascular.invasion inyolying the myometrium in this manngruwith_u

Page 4 of 5

-COMMENT: The neoplasm in the endometrium is a papillary serous

carcinoma. There are foci within the neoplastic growth that have an
endometrioid appearance; however, these foci have Grade 3 nuclei and.
overall, are estimated to comprise less than 25‘ of the total mass of
the neoplasm. Accordingly, it is felt that one cannot justify
classifying this as mixed carcinoma. The neoplasm shows extensive
relatiVEly shallow direct extension into the—ﬁyometrium. Parametrial
tissue on each side of the uterus is involved, and this appears to be
mainly lymphvascular spread. Twelve of nineteen lymph nodes contain
metastatic carcinoma, and both ovaries contain metastatic carcinoma.
The metastatic deposits are similar to the neoplasm seen in the
endometrium.

Omentum and vermiform appendix are uninvolved by neoplasm.

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Right periaortic node:

1. Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic, in three of four lymph
nodes. The nodes are disrupted making it not practicable to measure the
size of the metastasis accurately.

2. Extra nodal extension is judged to be likely.

5. Left periaortic node:
Lymph node, one, free of neoplasm.

C. Left common node:

“Lymph node, one (microscopic finding). Metastatic carcinoma is
present in the node.

D. External iliac node:
Lymph nodes, three, free of neoplasm.

E. Obturator node:
1. Papillary aerous carcinoma, metastatic, in two lymph nodes.
2. The largest metastasis measures 2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

3. Extra nodal extension is not seen.

F. Low right periaortic tissue:
1. Fibroadipose tissue.
2. Lymph node is not seen.
3. Malignancy is not seen.

G. Right periaortic:

l. Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic in one lymph node.
2. Vascular channels about the node contain neoplasm, and some of
these channels have muscular walls suggestive of blood vessels.

H. Right common iliac:
Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic in one lymph node:

I. Right obturator:

1. Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic in five of six lymph
nodes.

Page 5 of5

2. Extra nodal extension is seen.
J. Uterus, tubes, ovaries and cervix:
1. Papillary serous carcinoma, endometrium. See comment.
2. The neoplasm, by direct extension, involves the myometrium to a

depth of approximately 0.6 cm in an area where the myometrium measures

1.5 cm in greatest dimension. However, the neoplasm involves

intramyometrial lymphatics extensively, and focally is present within
_.lecm of the serosal_surface. Sevpral of these intravascular focirare

seen near the serosa.

3. The neoplasm extends along the surface of the uterine cavity to

involve the lower uterine segment and upper endocervical canal. The

involvement is along the surface with no significant penetration of
subjacent myometrium.

4. The neoplasm measures 4 cm in greatest dimension and involves the
entire endometrial cavity.
5. Adenocarcinoma is present in right and left parametrial tissue.
6. Lymph node status: papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic, in 12
of 19 lymph nodes. See parts A through I of the specimen.

a. The largest metastasis measures 2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

b. Several foci of extra nodal extension are seen.
7. The omentum is uninvolved. See Part K of the specimen.
8. Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic, in the right ovary. The
right oviduct has atrophy but does not contain metastatic carcinoma.
9. Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic, in the left ovary.

10. The left oviduct is atrophic and does not contain

metastatic carcinoma.
11. Leiomyomata.

K. Omentum:

Lobular adipose tissue, compatible with omentum, free of
neoplasm.

L. Appendix:

1. Vermiform appendix, histologically unremarkable.
2. Malignancy is not seen.
MD (Electronically signed) -

My signature is attestation that I have personally reviewed the
submitted material(s) and the above diagnosis reflects that evaluation.

 

 

theaeaMd

