 

lof7

UUID:D8065FA8-DCOE-4F1C-8FA4-508A567AC24C
TCGA-AS-A2K2-61 - lliﬁlcllmil'lted

muuIminImumnunmuﬁlﬁﬁu umm
I ulmmu muumumuummmmnmm .
“IPI‘IHIIH'I'IIMIIHI lllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIII w

 
 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PATIENT: ’ """rr‘"
33:32:13 /dA fro—‘3‘ .

o .

Eggatfgi: W W) W m; £4743
£23233: can; ﬁW/MWW cw. /

Attending é ,
Ordering MD: 7/37/ll
Copies To:

_.._-__.___==._.-:.4.t:=2=-:.===$===::—::===:==========;..;:=:_-=::===:=:=‘:=m-~—‘-—=--—

DIAGNOSIS:
1. UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES, AND OVARIES, TOTAL ABDOMINAL

HYSTERECTOMY AND BILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

- Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, predominantly papillary
serous type with small component of clear cell carcinoma,
high—grade (III), nuclear grade 3 (see comment)

— Carcinoma partially replaces two large endometrial
polyps in the anterior uterine fundus and anterior
uterine corpus measuring about 1.6 and 2.5 cm in
maximum dimensions, respectively

~ Carcinoma also involves endometrium elsewhere in the
uterine corpus

— Invasion of stroma of polyps by carcinoma is present

— Secondary involvement of adenomyosis by carcinoma is
present

— Myometrial invasion by carcinoma is present and
involves less than 50% of the uterine wall thickness

— Lymphovascular invasion by carcinoma is present

— Microscopic focus of metastatic carcinoma is present
in the left parametrium

~ Cervix and vaginal cuff are free.of tumor

~ No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving right
ovary, right fallopian tube or left ovary

— Free—floating aggregates of carcinoma cells are present
in the lumen of the left fallopian tube; no invasion of
left fallOpian tube by metastatic carcinoma is
identified

— Several smaller endometrial polyps, one of which exhibits
focal serous intraepithelial carcinoma

- Non—neoplastic endometrium is inactive/weakly proliferative
proliferative, for the most part, and focally exhibits
disordered proliferatlve features

- Adenomyosis {with and without secondary involvement by
carcinoma)

— Several tiny to small uterine smooth muscle tumors, most
of which are usual type and one of which is a cellular
leiomyoma

— Serosal/subserosal mullerianosis/endometriosis

(continued on next page)

Page: 2

- Serosal adhesions

~ Cervix with chronic and mild acute inflammation, reserve
cell hyperplasia, squamous metaplasia, focal microglandular
endocervical hyperplasia, cystic endocervical tunnel clusters,
and nabothian cysts

- Scant vaginal cuff mucosa with mild chronic inflammation

— Focal mullerianosis/endometriosis, left parametrium

— Right ovary with senescent changes, cortical stromal
hyperplasla with associate hyperthecosis (focally nodular),

 

 

20f?

cystic epithelial inclusiOns, and seroeal adhesions

— Right paratuhal and paraovarian aggregates of lymphocytes,
histiocytes, and macrophages (some hemosiderin—laden), and/or

giant cell reaction
~ Right fallopian tube with minimal chronic inflammation
— Right paratubal Walthard rests, most of which are cystic

— Left ovary with cystic epithelial inclusions, calcifications,

including psammoma bodies, senescent changes, cortical stromal

hyperplasia with association hyperthecosis, and serosal
adhesions

— Left fallopian tube with free—floating aggregates of
carcinoma cells in lumen (as noted above)

— Left paratubal Wolffian duct remnants

2. SOFT TISSUE, BLADDER PERITONEUM, BIOPSY:
— Perivascular margination of leukocytes and thermal/
cautery artifacts
— No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

3. SOFT TISSUE, CUL DE SAC, BIOPSY:
- Thermal/cautery artifacts
— No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

4. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT PELVIC PERITONEUM, BIOPSY:
- Thermal/cautery artifacts
— No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

5. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT GUTTER, BIOPSY:
— Thermal/cautery artifacts and recent hemorrhages
~ No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

6. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT PELVIC PERITONEUM, BIOPSY:
— Perivascular margination of leukocytes and marked thermal
cautery artifacts
e No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

7. SOFT TISSUE. RIGHT GUTTER. BIOPSY:
— Thermal/cautery artifacts
_ No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

8. LYMPH MODES, LEFT PELVIC. EXCISION:
~ Three reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis,
foci of fibrosis, calcifications and/or focal giant cell
reaction
~ No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained
sections or in sections stained for keratin (0/3)

9. LYMPH NODE, LEFT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
~ One reactive lymph node with sinus histiocytosis and fooa

(continued on next page)

fibrosis
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained
sections or in sections stained for keratin (0/1)

10-13. OMENTUM, "#1". "#2", "“3", AND "#4”, PARTIAL

OMENTECTOMIES:

— Chronic inflammation. reactive lymphoid/lymphohistio‘
cytic aggregates, adhesion, focal granulation tissue,
proliferation, and reactive mesothelial proliferation

- No eVidence of metastatic carcinoma

l4. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
— Three reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis,
foci of fibrosis and/or calcifications
— No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained

/

l

Page:

3

30f?

sections or in sections stained for keratin (0/3)

l5. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT COMMON lLlAC, ZXCISION:
— Four reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis and
foci of fibrosrs
— No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained
sections or in sections stained for keratin (0/4)

COMMENT: The primary uterine tumor exhibits features of high~grade
serous carcinoma, for the most part. Associated serous intra—
epithelial carcinoma ls present. A small subpopulation of the
tumor cells exhibit clear cell features and very rare neoplastic
glands are lined by cells with an endometrioid—like appearance.

The tumor exhibits predominantly papillary and glandular growth
patterns. Solid tumor growth is also noted focally. 8y convention.
the overall/"F160" grade of the neoplasm has been raised to III‘to
reflect the very high grade nuclear features (as opposed to I
architectural pattern). No overexpression of p53 by the tumor
cells is detected. ReSults of keratin stains on the lymph nodes
have been incorporated in the diagnosis. Results of histochemical
stains for mucin and additional immunostains will be reported in

an addendum.

    

HISTORY: Uterine papillary serous carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC:

See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

1: UTERUS, CERVIX, TUBES AND OVARIES
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "uterus, cervix, tubes,
and ovaries", received fresh in the Operating Room for intraoperative
gross consultation, and subsequently fixed in formalin is an 80.5
gram total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen.
The uterus was incised along the right side at the time of intra—
operative consultation and is subsequently incised on the left side.
The uterus is symmetric, about 8.5 cm from the fundus to the
ectocervix, 4.5 cm from cornu to cornu, and up to 4.2 cm from the
anterior surface to the posterior surface. The uterine serosa is
pinketan, generally smooth, but focally granular. A few tiny
serosal adhesions are also noted posteriorly. The cervix is about
2.8 cm long. The cervix has a maximum diameter of 3.0 cm in the
(continued on next page)

_ _,_ ,_ Page:
ectocervical region. Attached to the cervix, there is short (up to
0.3 cm long cuff), of grossly unremarkable pink~tan vaginal mucosa.
Parametrial soft tissues are also attached to the uterus,
bilaterally. Those on the right side measure about 3.0 x 2.1 x 0.9
cm in aggregate and those on the left side measure about 2.7 x 1.9
x 1.1 cm in aggregate. The parametrial soft tissues appear grossly
free of tumor. The mucosa lining the ectocervix is tan to pink—tan,
focally bloodied and smooth. The external cervical 05 is 0.6 cm in
diameter and patent. The cervical transformation zone is distinct.
The endocervical canal is about 2.3 cm long and lined by tan, smooth
to focally slightly rugose mucosa. Cut sections of the cervix reveal
several tiny mucus—filled cysts, ranging from less than 0.1 to 0.3
cm in diameter. The cervix appears grossly free of tumor. The
endometrial cavity is about 4.5 cm long and up to 2.5 cm in width.
There is a 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm polypoid endometrial mass based in
the anterior uterine fundus to the left of the midline. This
polypoid is lined by relatively smooth pink—tan mucosa and has
a semi~soft, tan—white cut surface with intervening minute to small
cystic spaces, which spaces range from less than 0.1 to about 0.3 cm
in diameter. Just inferior to the first polypoid lesion, there is a
second polypoid endometrial mass located in the anterior uterine
corpus, which measures about 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.0 cm. This mass is lined
by tan-pink mucosa, which is papillated, friable and focally
hemorrhagic. Cut sections of the second polypoid mass are composed

4

. ... WWW

4of7

of semi—soft, tan tissue and firmer tan to tan«white tissue. The
uterine wall beneath the larger of the two polypoid masses
(described above) is focally indurated and suspicious for at least
superficially invasive tumor. In the posterior uterine corpus,
there is a raised, friable, tan-white papillary tumor that
measures about 1.2 x 0.7 cm in area and up to 0.6 cm in thickness.
Cut sections in the vicinity of this papillated tumor in the
posterior corpus reveal a slightly irregular mucosal—myometrial
interface, but no definite underlying invasive tumor. Maximum
myometrial thickness in the uterus is about 2.2 cm. Within the
posterior uterine corpus, there are also three semi—firm, tan
endometrial polyps ranging from about 0.5 to 0.7 cm in diameter.
The rest of the endometrium is smoother, tan and has a maximum
thickness of about 0.1 cm. Within the uterus, there are also
several tiny to small leiomyomas that range from about 0.2 to 0.4 cm
in diameter. Most of the leiomyomas are composed of firm solid,
tan~white whorled tissue without grossly evident areas of
hemorrhage or necrosis. One of the leiomyomas located in the
anterior fundic region beneath the smaller polypoid mass is composed
of softer, yellow-tan tissue. No areas of hemorrhage or necrosis
are identified in any of the leiomyomas. The uninvolved myometrium
is tan, semi—firm, and shows trabeculations and a few minute cystic
spaces. The right ovary is atrophic, about 2.2 x 1.3 x 0.7 cm and
has a yellow—tan, generally smooth serosal surface except for a few
tiny adhesions. Cut surfaces of the right ovary reveal a few corpora
albicantia and relatively abundant yellow~tan cortical stroma, but
no gross evidence of metastatic tumor. The right fallopian tube has
fimbria at one end. is about 5.2 cm long, ranges from 0.5 to 0.6 cm
in diameter, and has a generally smooth tan serosal surface.
Attached to the right fallopian tube. there are several minute to
tiny, thin—walled translucent paratubal cysts containing clear to
yellow fluid. The cysts range from 0.1 to 0.3 cm in maximum
dimension. Cross sections of the right fallopian tube reveal a
patent lumen, up to about 0.2 cm in diameter and no gross evidence
(continued on next page)

. Page:
of metastatic tumor. The left ovary is atrophic, 2.6 x 1.3 x 0.9 cm
and has a yellow~tan serosal surface, which is generally smooth
except for a few tiny adhesions. Cut surfaces of the right ovary
reveal abundant yellow—tan cortical stroma, a few corpora
albicantia, and a few minute to tiny cystic spaces, the largest of
which measures about 0.2 cm in diameter. The left ovary appears
grossly free of metastatic tumor. The adjacent left fallopian tube
has fimbria at one end, is about 4.6 cm long, ranges from 0.4 to 0.6
cm in diameter, and has a smooth, tan serosal surface. Cross
sections of the left fallopian tube reveal a patent lumen, up to 0.2
cm in diameter and no gross evidence of metastatic tumor.
Representative sections.

A. Right parametrial tissues - 2

B. Left parametrial tissues — 3

C. Anterior cervix and vaginal cuff - l

D. Posterior cervix and vaginal cuff — l

E. Anterior lower uterine segment and upper endocervix — l

E. Posterior lower uterine segment and upper endocervix — 1

G,H. Smaller polypoid uterine mass from anterior fundus ~ 2 each

I. Larger polypoid endometrial mass from anterior uterine corpus
- l

J. Larger polypoid endometrial mass from anterior uterine corpus
_ 2 . ,.

K. Posterior uterine corpus with papillary tumor and small
leiomyoma — 1

L. Posterior uterine corpus with papillary tumor and adjacent
small endometrial polyp — i

M. Posterior uterine corpus with papillary tumor and a small
endometrial polyp — l

D

 

N Uninvolved anterior uterine corpus — l

O. Posterior uterine corpus adjacent to tumor with small
endometrial polyp — l

P. Grossly uninvolved anterior uterine corpus — 1

Q. Posterior uterine corpus with serosal granularities - l

R. Right ovary, fallopian tube, and paratubal cysts ~ 3

S. Left ovary and fallopian tube ~ 3

2: BLADDER PERITONEUM

Labeled with the patient's name designated "bladder peritoneum",
and received in formalin is a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm portion of
yellow—tan soft tissue.

Entirely submitted.

T. l

3: CUL DE SAC

Labeled with the patient's name designated "cul de sac", and
received in formalin is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm irregular portion of
yellow-tan soft tissue.

Entirely submitted.

U. l

4: LEFT PELVIC PERITONEUM
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic peritoneum",
and received in formalin is a 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm fragment of soft,
tan tissue.
Entirely submitted.
V. 1

(continued on next page)

Page: 6

5: LEFT GUTTER

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left gutter", and
received in formalin is a 0.9 x 0.5 x O.l cm irregularly shaped
fragment of focally hemorrhagic, soft tan tissue.

Entirely submitted.

W. l

6: RIGHT ?ELV1C PERITONEUM

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right pelvic
peritoneum", and received in formalin is a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm
irregularly shaped fragment of yellow—tan soft tissue.
Entirely submitted.

X. l

7: RIGHT GUTTER

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right gutter", and
received in formalin is a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm irregularly shaped
fragment of yellow-tan soft tissue.

Entirely submitted.

Y. i

8: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic lymph node",
and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm aggregate of focally
hemorrhagic, yellow fatty tissue, within which there are embedded
three semi-soft, tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes measure about 0.2,
0.3, and 1.0 cm in maximum dimension.

Entirely submitted.

Z. Three lymph nodes (largest bisected) and fat ~ 3

9: LEFT COMMON [LIAC

Labeled with the patient's name, designated ”left common iliac" and
received in formalin is a 3.0 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm aggregate of yellow
fatty tissue and a single 0.3 cm diameter soft, tan lymph node.
Entirely submitted.

50f7

 

 

60f?

AA. One lymph node and fat ~ 1

10: OMENTUM no.1

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #1", and
received in formalin is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 0.5 cm portion of yellOthan,
soft, lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections.

BB. 1

ll: OMENTUM no.2

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #2", and
received in formalin is a 7.5 x 4.0 x 0.5 cm portion of soft,
lobulated, yellow~tan, omental fat that appears grossly free of
tumor.

Representative sections.

CC. 2

12: OMENTUM no.3
Labeled with the patient's name, designate< "omentum 93", and
received in formalin is a 7.0 x 3.5 x 0.5 cm portion of soft, yellow~
tan, lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections.

(continued on next page)

Page:

13: OMENTUM no.4

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #4", and
received in formalin is a 4.6 x 2.4 x 0.8 cm portion of soft, yellow—
tan, lobulated omental fat that appears grossiy free of tumor.
Representative sections.

BE. 2

l4: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NOSE

Labeled with the patient's name. designated "right pelvic lymph
node“, and received in formalin is a 2.2 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm aggregate of
soft, yellow, fatty tissue and three semi—soft, tan lymph nodes. The
lymph nodes measure about 0.1, 0.4, and 0.9 cm in maximum dimension.
Entirely submitted.

FF. Three lymph nodes and fat ~ 1

15: RIGHT COMMON ILIAC

Labeled with the patient’s name, designated "right common iliac”, and
received in formalin is a 1.6 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm aggregate of soft,
yellow, fatty tissue and four semi-soft tan lymph nodes. The lymph
nodes range from 0.1 to 0.8 cm in maximum dimension.

Entirely submitted.

GG. Four lymph nodes (largest bisected) and fat ~ 2

Gross dictated by M.D.

OPERATIVE CALL

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):

#1. UTERUS AND OVARIES:
~One focus of possible tumor — no gross invasion
—One polyp
—One pedunculated lesion ? fibroid

Special Studies: Photo; Additional HaE’s (8x1, Hxl. lxl, Jxl, Rxl,
le): mucicarmine (J); PAS-D (J); keratin AEl/nm
(8,2, M, FF, GG); desmin (H); actin (H); (3010 (H).-
p53 (L)

Pathologist

l

 

 

i, . M.0., the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Final led:

 

7 of?

 

