DIAGNOSIS:

1. Lymph node, interaorta caval (excision): Lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/2).

 

2. Kidney and adrenal, right (nephrectomy and adrenalectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type,
Fuhrman nuclear grade III. Tumor infiltrates the capsule but does not involve the inked margin.

Vascular and ureteral margins are free of tumor.

- Adrenal gland, no tumor seen.

Kidney Nephrectomy Summary Table Macroscopic

Specimen Type: Radical nephrectomy
Laterality: Right

Tumor Size: 12 cm in greatest dimension
Focality: Unifocal

Macro Extent of Tumor: Within inked margin

Microscogic

Histologic Type: Chromophone renal carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Fuhrman nuclear grade III

Extent of Invasion

Primary Tumor(pT): T2
Regional Lymph Nodes(pN): N0
Distant Metastisis(pM): MX

Patient Identiﬁcation

Page 1 of 3

 

Margins: Vascular and ureteral margins are free of tumor

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical Histo : histo of Iar e 100m u per pole renal mass.
Til interaortocal node seen on CT scan W

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: Large mass with questionable involvement of
adrenal. Small node identiﬁed and removed l.A.C. Post—Operative
Diagnosis: right renal mass Pre-Operative Diagnosis: right renal mass

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. LYMPH NODES, lnteraortocaval node
2. KIDNEY, RIGHT, and adrenal gland

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 2 containers labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number,
and further described as follows:

1.

“lnteraorta caval node”. The specimen consists of 2 ﬁrm yellow and tan nodules measuring 2.0 x 1.2 x
0.6 and 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Both nodules are bisected revealing a smooth tan cut surface. The specimen
is entirely submitted in a white cassette labeled ' . for permanent processing.

"Right kidney and ﬁght adrenal gland". The specimen is a radical nephrectomy specimen measuring '1 7 x
11 x 8 cm overall. The specimen is partially inked black and bivalved, revealing a brown tumor mass
measuring 12 cm in largest dimension with a tan, soft cut surface and areas of necrosis. Approximately 3
x 1 x 0.5 cm in aggregate of the mass and approximately 1 x 1 x 0.3 cm of normal kidney is procured for
! Grossl , the tumor is not invading out of capsule. Gross photos taken. Procurement was
pe ormed byh . In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is further inked and seriallv
sectioned. T e vascu ar an ure era margins are identiﬁed and submitted in white cassette

#2A for permanent processing.

The tumor measures approximately 11 cm x 12 cm x 10.5 cm.

After ﬁxation. the specimen weighs 722 grams. Sections of the tumor and the black inked specimen
margin are submitted 2B, 20. 2D, and 2E.

Representative section of tumor' Is submitted' In 2F.

Representative section of tumor and inked specimen margin are submitted In ZG, 2H.

Two representative sections of tumor are submitted In 2|, 2J.

Two representative sections of uninvolved kidneyare submitted in 2K. 2L.

Patient Identiﬁcation

Page 2 of 3

Two representative sections of the adrenal are submitted in 2M, 2N.
Representative sections of tumor and capsule are submitted in #20, 2P, ZQ.

Gross description dictated by_ Additional gross description dictated by_

No consultants

I—
—
—

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 3 of 3

