L0~0’3
WW/WMHxlN“ 93YO/3
LSMpMAhm/W 6571 3/b/u W

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

"mm" Addendum - Please See End of Report “mm“
Reason lor Addendum #1: Additional sections or studies

Wis:

A. FALLOPlAN TUBE, LEFT SALPlNGECTOMY:
- Chronic and minimal acute salpingitis, lymphovascular ectasia, stromal edema.
and adhesions
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

8. FALLOPIAN TUBE, RlGHT, SALPINGECTOMY;
- Chronic and minimal acute salpingitis, vascular ectasia, and soft tissue at
fimbriated end
- Paratubal Walthard rest
- Paratubal cyst lined by benign serous epithelium (hydatid of Morgagni) with an
associated adhesion
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

C. UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

- Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioid typeJ with associated squamous.
eosinophilic and secretory-like changes (latter consistent with exogenous
progestin effect). FlGO grade ll (see comment)

- There is extensive (diffuse) involvement of uterine fundus. anterior and
posterior uterine corpus and portions of posterior lower uterine segment and
anterior lower uterine segments by carcinoma

- The tumor is exophyticlpolypoid in some areas

- Superﬁcial myometrial invasion by carcinoma, involving less than 10% of the
of the uterine wall thickness is present

- There is secondary involvement of adenomyosis deeper in the uterine wall,
within the outer half of wall about 0.85 cm from the serosa

- No lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by carcinoma identified

- Cervix and vaginal cuff are free of tumor

- Bilateral parametrial soft tissues are free of tumor

- Minimal residual non-neoplastic endometrium (mostly scattered single glands
intervening between aggregates of tumor with some inactive glands, some
glands showing secretory-like changes, cystic glandular dilatation, and stromal
decidualization consistent with exogenous progestin effect

- Benign endometrial polyp, lower uterine segment

- Cervix with chronic and mild acute inﬂammation, extensive microglandular
endocervical hyperplasia, reserve cell hyperplasia, squamous metaplasia, and
nabothian cysts

D. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVlC, EXClSlON:

Patient Case(s)

 

 

: 696BCE9-767C-4825-BA53-EFED20EBF656 . g ('7‘
uum TCGA-AS-A1OJ-01A-PR Redatil‘ItEd , y M: : ‘

 

- Seventeen reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0117)

E. LYMPH NODES, LEFT COMMON lLlAC. EXCISION:
- Six reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained sections (016)

F. LYMPH NODE, LEFT OBTURATOR, EXCISION:
- One reactive lymph node
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained sections (0I1)

G. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Five reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained sections (0I5)

H. LYMPH NODES. RIGHT COMMON lLlAC, EXCISION:
- Two reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely stained sections (012)

COMMENT: The preliminary pathologic ﬁndings were conveyed to Dr. via campus
e-mail on ‘ The case was subsequently discussed with Dr. Results of an

immunohistochemical panel to test for potential microsatellite instability will be reported
in an addendum.

SYNOPTIC‘ REPORT:

Applies To:

: LEFT FALLOPlAN TUBE

: RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE

: UTERUS

: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

: LEFT COMMON lLlAC LYMPH NODES

‘. LEFT OBTURATOR LYMPH NOOE

: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

: RIGHT COMMON lLlAC LYMPH NODES

Io'nmoom)

Macroscopic

 

 

Specimen Type: Uterus
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube

Vaginal Cuff
Other Organs Present: None
Procedure: Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral
salpingectomy
Specimen integrity: intact hysterectomy specimen
Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph nodes

Para-aortic lymph nodes
Common iliac lymph nodes
One left obturator lymph node

MICMCOPIC

accesses fy‘pez ' " ‘ Endometrioid aa‘éaaaaicanaysayers;“‘

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 2 of 7

Histologic Grade:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:
Myometrial Invasion:
involvement of Cervix:
Extent of Involvement
of Other Organs:
Margins:

Lymphovascular Invasion:

Variant: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with associated
squamous. eosinophilic and secretory-like changes

FlGO grade ii

Corpus

Fundus

Lower uterine segment

Greatest dimension; 8.5cm

Less than 50% myometrial invasion

No involvement

None

Surgical margins of hysterectomy specimen are free of
tumor.

Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Stem (pTNM [FIGO)) AJCC 7th Edltlon 2010

Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Number of pelvic lymph
nodes examined:
Number of pelvic lymph
nodes involved:

Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes examined:
Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes involved:
Number of common iliac
lymph nodes examined:
Number of common iliac
lymph nodes involved:

HISTORY:
Endometriai adenocarcinoma

MiCROSCOPiC FiNDlNGS:
See diagnosis.

SPECIAL STUDIES:

pT1a [iA]: Tumor limited to endometrium or invades less
than one-half of the myometrium

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Comment(s): in addition to the pelvic. and common iliac
lymph nodes. one left obturator lymph node was
examined and found to be negative for metastatic
tumor.

23

O

H&E-stained step sections (CS x2, C4 x2, C5 x2)

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 7

     
  
  

' mhiliﬁ‘gfibgmﬁtliv "

film ly’ minty: .. iii Block Result

     

  

     
 
 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keratin AElIAE3 01, DZ. 03. D4 No ‘occult' keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
identiﬁed in the left pelvic lymph nodes.

Keratin AE1IAE3 E1 No “occult" keratin—positive metastatic tumor cells are
identiﬁed in the left common iliac lymph nodes.

Keratin AE1/AE3 F1 No "occult" keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
identiﬁed in the left obturator lymph node.

Keratin AEIIAE3 Gt, 62. (33 No “occult" keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
identiﬁed in the right pelvic lymph nodes.

Keratin AE1/AE3 H1 No “occult" keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
identiﬁed in the right common iliac lymph nodes.

A. LEFT FALLOPlAN TUBE '

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left fallopian tube". and received in formalin is a ﬁmbriated
portion of fallopian tube measuring 8.0 cm in length and ranging from 0.4 to 0.7 cm in greatest diameter.
The patent lumen measures up to 0.4 cm in diameter.

No tumor is identiﬁed.
Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:
A1. Proximal, mid, distal and ﬁmbriaied end of fallopian tube - 4

B. RIGHT FALLOPlAN TUBE

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled "right fallopian tube", and received in formalin is a ﬁmbriated
fallopian tube measuring 7.5 cm in length and ranging from 0.4 to 0.6 cm in maximum diameter. The
patent lumen measures up to 0.3 cm in diameter.

No tumor Is identiﬁed.

There is about a 1.0 cm diameter translucent paratubal cyst containing clear pale yellow ﬂuid. There is
an adhesion that is about 0.9 cm long x less than 0.1 cm in diameter attached to the paratubal cyst.

Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:
B1. Proximal. mid. distal and ﬁmbrlated end of fallopian tube; paratubal cyst - 5

C. UTERUS. CERVIX (GROSS AND FROZEN SECTION)

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled “uterus, cervix”, and received fresh for intraoperative frozen
section and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is an intact 300 gram total hysterectomy specimen. The uterus
is about 11.0 x 8.0 x 5.0 cm in greatest overall dimensions. The cervical portion of the uterine alone is
about 5.0 cm in length and up to 2.0 cm in diameter. Attached to the cervix. there is about a 0.5 cm long
cuff of vaginal mucosa. The endometrial cavity is 8.5 cm in length and up to 5.0 cm in width. The
endometrial mucosa ranges from about 0.2 to 0.8 cm in thickness. The muscular uterine wall ranges
from about 1.5 to 3.3 cm in thickness. There are small amounts of parametrial tissues attached
bilaterally; those on the left side are up to 0.5 cm in width and those on the right side are up to 1.0 cm in
width.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 4 of 7

areas, and up to 0.8 cm in thickness. Cut sections of the uterus show no grossly evident invasive tumor.
The cervix and vaginal cuff appear to be grossly free of tumor. The parametrial tissues appear to be
grossly free of tumor.

There is a broad-based sessile endometrial polyp, about 1.1 cm in diameter and 0.4 cm in thickness in
the anterior lower uterine segment. The myometrium is focally trabeculated and shows some minute to
tiny cystic spaces. No other gross pathologic lesions are seen.

Ink key: anterior uterine serosa and surgical margin - blue; posterior uterine serosa and posterior
surgical margin - black.

Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:

C1. Remnant of FSC - 1

CZ. Anterior cervix - 1

C3. Anterior lower uterine segment with polyp and tumor - 1
C4. Posterior cervix - 1

CS. Posterior lower uterine segment with tumor and adjacent upper endocervix - 1
CG. Anterior uterine corpus with tumor - 1

C7, 08. Posterior uterine corpus with tumor - 1 each

09. Left parametnal tissues - 2

C10. Right parametrial tissues — 2

C11. Anterior uterine fundus -1

012,13. Posterior uterine fundus -1 each

D. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE _

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node”, and received in formalin is about a 4.0 x
3.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of soft yellow adipose tissue within which there are embedded multiple soft to
semisoft tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from about 0.2 to 1.2 cm in maximum dimensions.

No gross tumor is seen.

Entirely submitted.

Slide key:

D1. Two lymph nodes. each sectioned (bisected) - 2
02. Three lymph nodes. two of which are bisected - 4
03. Four lymph nodes - multiple

D4. Multiple lymph nodes - multiple

E. LEFT COMMON lLlAC

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled “left common iliac", and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.0
cm aggregate of soft yellow fatty tissue within which there are embedded several soft tan lymph nodes.
The lymph nodes range from about 0.2 to 1.0 cm in maximum dimension.

No gross tumor is seen.

Entirely submitted.

Slide key:

 

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 5 of 7

E1. Multiple lymph nodes and perinodal fat - multiple

F . OBTURATOR LEFT

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled “obturator left”. and received in formalin is about a 1.8 x 1.2 x
0.8 cm portion of soft yellow fatty tissue within which there is embedded a single 0.6 cm diameter soft tan
lymph node.

No gross tumor is seen.
Entirely submitted.

Slide key:
F1. One lymph node and fat - 2

G. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled “right pelvic lymph node”, and received in formalin is a 6.5 x 2.0
x 1.0 cm aggregate of soft yellow fatty tissue, within which there are embedded multiple soil to semisoft
tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from about 0.3 to 2.0 cm in maximum dimensions.

No gross tumor is seen.

Entirely submitted.

G1. Three lymph nodes. two of which are bisected - 4
GZ. Largest lymph node, bisected - 2

GS. One lymph node and fat - multiple

H. RIGHT COMMON lLlAC

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled “right common iliac". and received in formalin is about a 3.5 x
2.0 x 0.8 cm aggregate of soft yellow fatty tissue. Dissection of the fat reveals two soft tan lymph nodes.
about 0.4 and 0.6 cm in maximum dimensions.

No gross tumor is seen.

Entirely embedded.

Slide key:

H1. Two bisected lymph nodes - 4
H2. Fat - multiple

Gross dictated by

we»

lNTWERATNE CONSULTAHON:
L

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

C. UT ERUS. CERVIX:
- Endometriai adenocarcinoma
- No obvious high-grade features noted on representative sections
- No deﬁnitive mvometrial invasion identiﬁed on representative sections

l have personally examined the specimen. interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 6 of 7

Electronically signec

ADDENDUM:

RESULTS OF lMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINS FOR EVALUATION FOR POTENTIAL
MICROSATELLITE lNSTABiLi'IY:

   

 

 

 

Study i' Antibody Block Result
No speciﬁc staining of the tumor cells is identiﬁed. ie. there is loss of
the normal pattern of staining for this mismatch repair protein.

MSH-2 C12 There is retention of the normal pattern of staining for MSH-2 by the
tumor cells.

MSH—G C12 Some of the neoplastic cells exhibit positive staining.__

PMS2 C12 There is retention of the normal pattern of stainigg for PMSZ.

 

 

 

 

 

l have personally examined the specimen. interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.

Criteria

 

Yes No I J

Diagnosis Discrepancy 7

Primary Tunic r Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy

Prior Maiilmnry Nixon
Dual/Synrhranous Primary
Myrtle):
Reviewer initials

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

II this report includes immunohistochemr‘cel In! new“ ole-- --- ..- '~"~--'--’ *'--~~-~- .-...............-..M.....-,.., mm were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by

immunohistochemice/ tests have not been Cleared or approved by the U. 3. Food and 0mg Administration (FDA), and FDA approve: is not required.

Page 7 of 7

