UUID:34F6C158-BEEA-4286-BF31-5A3E351C6AA7
TCGA- A4- A42T-91A-P

R Redacted
HllllHlHHllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
H HilllllilliHlilllillmllHlllHlHHllllilllll ‘
Illllllllilllllllllllillllililllillllillllllliiililil'illlllllﬂlllill: J

Gender: F

 

Date of Service: Date Received:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

KIDNEY, LEFT, NEPHRECTOMY:
~ PAPILLARY RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, SEE COMMENT.

- FUHRMAN NUCLEAR GRADE 3. /LA — o — 3
- TUMOR SIZE: 6 CM. 5
— LlMlTED TO KIDNEY. W, Moll/My W all

- SURGICAL MARGlNS NEGATIVE. Raw/3

Sift: KIM, A)"; c; (,Jﬁ t}
W

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (LEFT KIDNEY): ( ///'1/ n.
Type and grade: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman nuclear grade 3.
Primary tumor: pT1 b.
Regional lymph node: pNX.
Distant metastasis: NIA.
Pathologic stage: I.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Margin status: R0. negative.

COMMENT: Sections of the tumor show a papillary renal cell carcinoma with a
predominantly type i histologic pattern with Fuhrman nuclear grade 1 nuclei, however,
there are focal areas with Fuhrman grade 3 nuclei with a type ll architectural pattern.

Kidney Tumor Staging Information
Data derived from current specimen. Slaging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, June 2012.

Page 1
This report continues... (FINAL)

Patient Name -
Pathology Report — Page 1/3 Job :gel Doc#1

 

f Tumult. . . . y ., '-

 

 

 

 

J
Case #1
Procedure: Radical nephrectomy.
Specimen laierality: Len.
TUMOR FEATURES:
Tumor size: 6 cm.
Tumor focaiity: Single locust
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Limited to kidney.
Hietologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma.
Sarcomatoid features: Not identified.
Hlstologic grade: Fuhrman nuclear grade 3.
Microscopic tumor extension: Limited to kidney.
MARGINS: R0, negative.
LYMPH NODES: Not ideniiiied.
PATHOLOGIC STAGING:
Primary tumor: pTI b.
Regionai lymph nodes: pNX.
Distant metastasis: NIA.
Pathologic stage: I.
Pathoiogic ﬁndings In non-neoplastic kidney: Interstitial chronic inﬂammation.

 

ource f S ecimen:
Page 2
This report continues.“ (FINAL)

Pathology Report - . . - Pagez Doc#1

 

Patient: 1

 

 

 

Case d

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Kidneyieﬂ

Clinical History/Operative l_J_)_t_:_
Renal mass

Gross Description:

The specimen is labeled left kidney and is received without ﬁxative. it consists of a nephrectomy specimen
which together perinephric fat weighs 627 grams. It measures 20 cm from superior to interior, 10 cm from
medial to lateral. and 9 cm from anterior to posterior. Along the anterior surface there is tabulated fatty
tissue and there is a bulging ﬂuctuant mass at the inferior pole otthe kidney. At the hilum the renal artery
and renal vein are identiﬁed. The vessels are opened and show no gross evidence of intraluminal tumor.
Extending from the hilum of the kidney there is an 8 cm segment of ureter which appears somewhat
attenuated. The ureter is opened to reveal smooth tan-white urothelium. The kidney is bivalved to reveal

a fluid ﬁlled cystic mass in the inferior pole which bulges anteriorly this cystic mass measmes 8 x 8 x 5.2
cm. it contains amorphous brown material and turbid fluid. The lining of the cyst is brown with patchy
small areas of yellow discoloration, The cyst is 1.3 cm from the hilum of the kidney. it appears contained
within the renal capsule and is separated from the anterior surface of the kidney by a thin layer of smooth
fascist tissue. Representative sections of the mass are obtained for research purposes. The remaining
kidney has pale red parenchyma and normal appearing medullary rays. Cortical thickness is 0.6 cm. There
are scattered fluid ﬁlled cysts within the cortical portion of the kidney which are up to 1.3 cm. No other
discrete masses are present. Serial sections of the perineural adipose tissue reveal no grossly obvious
lymph nodes and no identiﬁable adrenal tissue. Representative sections are submitted.

Section summary:

A1) surgical margin, renal artery, renal vein and ureter,

A2) additional sections of ureter and ureterai pelvic junction,

A3) anterior surface of lower pole kidney including possible Gerota's fascia,
A4—A6) additional representative sections of cyst.

A7) cyst and closest approach to hilum,

A8) uninvolved kidney.

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

An intradepartmental consultation win—office notiﬁed of
resul

 

 

Page 3
END OF REPORT (FlNAL)

MR No. Patient Ne
Pathology Report — Page BIB - Page 3 Doc# 1

