 
 
 
 
  
 

Sheri:

magnosisiJiscr pancy
maﬁa niscmpnncy
WT ‘ _ "
Pnnr M ‘

 
 
   
 

Cast Is
’neviewer initials

 
 

UUID:CFF567FC-8867-4CA4-85AE-81A7030095E7
TCGA-Ai-ADSE-MA-PR Redailited

Ill lllHlllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ll
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllilllllllllllllll
iii “lulllllllll | i ll lllllllllil I lllll l llllllllllll III! II lllllll Ill

 

 

/CA~0-3

0W miﬂfuﬁw him/w M (Aw/71, 9533/ 5
J l " M
5,-f4 _- W No} C50. 7 / /¢/;,/“

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Right breast, biopsy: No evidence of tumor in one lymph node (0/ 1).

B. Left axilla, sentinel lymph node #1, dissection: No evidence of tumor in three lymph
nodes (0/ 3).

. Right breast, mastectomy:

Skin with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.
Proliferative ﬁbrocystic changes.

Microcalciﬁcations in association with benign glands.

WNE"0

D. Left breast, mastectomy:

1. Invasive carcinoma, 2.0 cm, SBR grade 2, see comment.

2. Ductal carcinoma in situ, low grade, see comment.

3. Skin with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.

4. Fibroadenoma.

5. Microcalciﬁcations associated with invasive carcinoma and benign glands.
6. Proliferative ﬁbrocystic changes.

 

 

Page I ur‘S

 

, Surgical Pathology —- Working Draft
7. Papillomatosis.
8. Pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia.

E. Nonsentinel lymph node, left axilla, dissection: No evidence of tumor in four lymph
nodes (0/4).

F. Right breast, re—excision of superior portion: Benign breast parenchyma.

Note: In Part D (left breast), the area indicated by the surgeon with a green stitch shows proliferative
fibrocystic changes, sclerosing adenosis, and pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia. There is no
evidence of carcinoma in the area around the green suture.

Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Left.
— invasive tumor type: Mixed ductal and lobular type (tumor is present in Slides Dl, D2, D5, and D 18).
- Invasive tumor size: 2.0 cm maximum diameter (Slide D5).
- Invasive tumor grade (modiﬁed Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 2 points.
Mitotic count: 16 mitotic ﬁgures / 10 HPF, 2 points.
’I‘ubule/ papilla formation: Deﬁnite tubule formation <10%, 3 points.
Total points and SBR grade = 7 points, grade 2.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None identiﬁed.
- Perineural invasion: None identiﬁed.
- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
- Deep margin: Positive (Slide D2, 5).
- Medial margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
- Lateral margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
~ Anterior/ superior margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
- Anterior/ inferior margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.

- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DClS) type: Solid.

- Ductal carcinoma in situ size: DCIS present as scattered microscopic foci associated with the invasive
component on Slides D1 and D2.

- Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: Low grade.

- Necrosis in ductal carcinoma in situ: None.

- Microcalciﬁcations: Present involving invasive carcinoma.

- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ:
- Deep margin: Close; within less than 0.3 cm (Slide D1).
- Medial margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
— Lateral margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
- Anterior/ superior margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.
— Anterior/inferior margin: Widely clear; >1 cm.

- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): Not identiﬁed.

— Lymph node status: No evidence of tumor in eight lymph nodes (0/8).
- AJCC/UICC stage: pTlcNOMX.

— Nontumorous breast tissue: Proliferative ﬁbrocystic changes, Fibroadenoma, pseudoangiomatous
hyperplasia.

- Nipple: Unremarkable.

— Skin/ dermis: Unremarkable. _ __ ﬁ

Immunohistochemical tests for estrogen, progesterone and Her-2 Neu are pending and will follow in an

addendum.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis

FSl (A) Right breast nodule, biopsy: Lymph node with no tumor seen. (Dr.—

 

F82 (B) Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy: Three lymph nodes, no tumor seen. (Dr.-

 

Page 2 of 8

 

 

 

Surgical PathoLOgy --Working_Draft

Clinical History

The patient is a year—old woman with breast cancer. A tracking sheet
accompanies the specimen and indicates a high family risk for cancer and preoperative diagnosis of
known left breast cancer in the upper outer quadrant. No specimen radiograph is requested.
mmmpécted on the left side. Special stains for ER, PR, and HER2/neu are requested as a
repeat. The diagram indicates that the known tumor is in the upper outer quadrant of the left breast, and
a suspicious area is present in the upper inner quadrant at approximately the 11 o'clock position above
the nipple. Recent MRI indicates the presence of a known 2-cm tumor with clip present in the lateral
breast of the left breast in addition to an adjacent S-mm lesion that is immediately posteromedial to the
primary lesion. A S—mm suspicious area is also identiﬁed in the slightly upper inner quadrant.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in six parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.
Parts A through D and F are received fresh, and Part E is received in formalin.

Part A is additionally labeled "right breast nodule." It consists of a single unoriented, irregular piece of
soft, pink tissue, measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as FSl, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.

Part B is additionally labeled "sentinel lymph node left axilla, count - 1800, frozen section.” It consists of
a single irregular piece of soft, yellow-pink, fatty tissue, measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F82, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette Bl.

Part C is additionally labeled "right breast." It consists of a mastectomy specimen, oriented with a short
suture considered superior and long suture considered lateral; oriented as such, the specimen measures
3.2 cm from anterior to posterior, 14.7 cm from medial to lateral, and 13.7 cm from superior to inferior.
The mastectomy specimen weighs 212.5 gm. The specimen includes an area of skin, measuring 14.5 x
6.7 cm, with nipple, measuring 1.7 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm, and areola. measuring 3 x 3.8 cm. The specimen has
been previously inked and serially sectioned by the serial
slices. Inking follows standard inking, with posterior black, anterior superior blue, and anterior inferior
green. The accompanying research paperwork indicates that a fragment of tissue has been taken for
tissue banking. Cut sections reveal that the breast is composed almost entirely of homogeneous, firm,
white, ﬁbrous tissue that abuts the deep margin. Thin layers of adipose tissue are present in the anterior
surface as well as the medial aspect of the specimen. No grossly evident lesions are identiﬁed. The nipple
and skin similarly appear unremarkable. Slice 1 is considered medial, and slice 10 is considered lateral.
The nipple, thereby, is in slice 5. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes C1—C2: Nipple, entirely submitted.

Cassette C3: Upper outer quadrant from slice 8.
Cassette C4: Upper outer quadrant from slice 7.
Cassette C5: Lower outer quadrant from slice 8.
Cassette C6: Lower outer quadrant from slice 7.
Cassette C7: Upper inner quadrant from slice 4.
Cassette C8: Upper inner quadrant from slice 3.
Cassette 09: Lower inner quadrant from slice 3.
Cassette C10: Lower inner quadrant from slice 2 and section of skin from slice 4.

Part D is additionally labeled "left breast," with further specification in the requisition form indicating that
a green stitch - questionable secondary cancer, correlate with MRI, and black short - superior, long =
lateral.

A firm, pale—tan, circumscribed lesion, measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x 1.4 cm, is present at the 3 o'clock position, 3
cm from the nipple; this contains a surgical clip. The lesion is 0.1 cm from the deep margin, 0.9 cm from
the skin, 2.2 cm from anterior superior, 1.9 cm from anterior inferior, 3.5 cm from the lateral margin, and
<10 cm from the medial margin. Immediately inferior and medial to main lesion, a 0.4-cm area contains
multiple punctate, ﬁrm, yellow spots. This lesion is 0.5 cm from the large lesion and is 0.5 from the deep
margin. The remainder of the specimen is composed mostly of ﬁrm, ﬁbrous tissue, showing multiple
small cystic areas, with a maximum diameter of 0.4 cm, throughout. The area adjacent to the green
suture on slice 6 similarly consists of dense, ﬁbrous tissue, and no definitive lesions are identiﬁed in this
area. The skin, nipple, and areola appear unremarkable.

 

1k" Done ‘4 nil!

 

_—~

Surgical Pathology ~- Working_Draft

Accompanying paperwork from the ' ‘ ndicates that a portion of the
specimen has been taken for tissue banking. The Specimen contains a short stitch and long black stitch,
taken to be superior and lateral, respectively, and has been previously inked and sectioned by the
research technician into ten slices, from media] to lateral. lnking is as per standard, with posterior in
black, anterior superior in blue, and anterior inferior in green. The blue ink appears faint. The
most-medial slice is taken as slice 1 and the most-lateral slice as slice 10. The specimen, thereby,
measures 2.5 cm from anterior to posterior, 15.6 cm from medial to lateral, and 16.6 cm from superior to
inferior and weighs 192.5 gm. A skin ellipse is present, measuring 6.6 x 13.1 cm, with the long axis in the
mediolateral extent. The areola measures 3.4 x 3 cm, and the nipple measures 1.8 x 1.6 x 1.6 cm. The
nipple lies in slices 5 and 6. The green nylon suture is in the posterior aspect of slice 6 at the 12 o'clock
position, 3.5 cm superior to the nipple. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette D1:
Cassette D2:
Cassette D3:
Cassette D4:
Cassette D5:

Cassettes D6-D7:

Cassette D8:

Cassettes DQ-Dl 1:

Cassette D12:
Cassette DIS:
Cassette D14:
Cassette D15:
Cassette D16:
Cassette D17:
Cassette D18:
Cassette D 19:
Cassette D20:
Cassette D21:
Cassette D22:

1.6-cm lateral lesion in relation to deep margin from slice 8.

Punctate, yellow lesion from slice 8.

Nearest anterior-superior margin in slice 8.

Nearest anterior-inferior margin from slice 8.

Additional 1.6-cm lesion in relation to skin.

Nipple, entirely submitted.

Area marked by green suture, including skin and anterior-superior and deep
margins.

Additional sections of area marked by the green suture en bloc from slice 6.
Area adjacent to green suture from slice 5.

Area adjacent to green suture from slice 7.

Inferior margin of slice 8.

Superior margin of slice 8.

Lateral margin from slice 10.

Medial margin from slice 1.

Intervening area between primary lesion and lateral margin from slice 9.
Upper inner quadrant, rectangular from slice 4 and triangular from slice 3.
Lower inner quadrant, rectangular from slice 5, triangular from slice 4.
Upper outer quadrant, rectangular from slice 8, triangular from slice 9.
Lower outer quadrant, triangular from slice 7, rectangular from slice 9.

Part E is additionally labeled "nonsentinel lymph node left axilla." it consists of a single unoriented
fragment of largely adipose tissue, measuring 2.4 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm. A single 1.4—cm lymph node is
identiﬁed. The candidate lymph node is'bisected and entirely submitted in cassette E1. The remainder of
the soft tissue is entirely submitted in cassette E2.

Part F is additionally labeled "re-excision superior portion right breast" and has an additional note in the
requisition form indicating that the stitch = new margin. It consists of a single fragment of adipose
tissue, measuring 3 x 2.2 x 0.9 cm, marked by a single black suture. The surface containing the black
suture is inked in black and the opposite surface in blue. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal
mostly adipose tissue, with a single 0.7-cm area of white, ﬁbrous tissue. The specimen is entirely
submitted in cassettes F1 through F3.

 

 

—/Pathology Resident -Pathologist
Signed:

Fee Codes:

Addenda

Addendum. Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out

Date Complete: . . -
Date Reported:

Bv= .

 

Pam- 4 M'R

 

Surgical PatholMWorking Draft

Addendum Comment

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HER2 was performed
on block D5.

 

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is strong (3+) nuclear staining in 85% of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is positive.

The test for progesterone receptors is. There is strong (3+) nuclear staining in~100% of tumor cells.
lntemal positive control is positive.

Result of HER2/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein over-expression.

An immunohistochemical assay was performed using the C811 monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu
oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0—3 (HER2 test interpreted by

Dr. —l-

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2are considered borderline. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with staining
intensity scores of 2 do not show gene ampliﬁcation. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore submitted for
FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER’Z/ncu oncoprotein. Tumors in this
category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochcmical and FISH testing, and almost always show gene
ampliﬁcation.

The immunoperoxidase stainis) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded
as investigations] or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA")
as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

 

-IPathologlst
Electronically signed out on

Addendum. Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out

Date Complete: By: _

Date Reported:

Addendum Comment
An immunohistochemical test for progesterone receptors was performed on block D5.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is strong nuclear staining in ~100% of tumor cells.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

'. They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 3. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such Clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded
as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA")
as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

.Pathologisl

(“19% Electronically signed out on
Q

 

Pages ol'8

 

 

 

Suigical Pathology marking Draft

 

 

 

Other Specimens

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Rectal, polyp

Final Diagnosis
Rectum, polypectomy: Hyperplastic polyp.
-

 

 

 

 

 

-
Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Pelvic Washing
Final Diagnosis
Pelvic Washing
BENIGN.
Reactive mesothelial cells.
_
Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

Speeimen(s) Received: A: Risk reducing salpingo-oophorectormy— right ovary- FS, B: Risk reducing salpingo-oophorectormy-
left ovary- PS, C: Endomctrium, curettage- perm, D: Endocervix, curettage- perm

Fina! Diagnosis

A. Right ovary, salpingo-oophorectomy: No significant pathologic abnormality; see
comment.

B. Left ovary, salpingo—oophorectomy: No signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality; see
comment.

C. Endometrium, curettage: Tissue insufficient for accurate evaluation; see
comment.

D. Endocervix, curettage: Scant fragments of squamous and glandular epithelium
with no significant pathologic abnormality.

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Cervical, Thin’ Prep Imaged

Final Diagnosis
Cervical, Thin Prep Imaged

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Atrophic pattern
Inﬂammation.

 

Pane 6 ni‘R

 

1' '

 

, Surgical Pathology -Working Draft
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation; atrophic pattern with no identiﬁable

endocervical/transformation zone component.

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

 

Specimen(s) Received: Cervical/Endoccrvical, Thin Prep lmaged

Final Diagnosis
Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Atrophic changes

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation; atrophic pattern with no identifiable
endocervical/transformation zone component.

a

Specimen Class: , Status: Signed Out Accessioned-
Signed Out:

 

 

Specimen(s) Received: Leﬁ breast core needle biopsy at 2:30, N + 3-4

Final Dia n sis
Left breast, needle core biopsy: Invasive carcinoma; see comment.

MD
-

Procedure/Addgnda for
ADDENDUM. Date of Addendum.:

Addendum Comment
lmmunohistochemical stain for E-Cadherin was performed and evaluated on A1. The invasive carcinoma
shows area with moderate membrane staining and others that are negative or demonstrate granular
staining. Thus, this invasive carcinoma displays features of both ductal and lobular carcinoma. Dr.

has reviewed the immunohistochemical stained slide and concurs.

The immunoperoxidase stainis) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the _ . They have not been cleared or
approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or
approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as
investigationai or [or research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

 

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

-.-

Specimen(s) Received: Leﬁ Axilla Lymph Node, Fine Needle Aspiration

 

‘ Page 7 of 8

__ Surgical Pathologt; Working Draft

Final Diagnosis We.
Left Axilla Lymph Node, Fine Needle Aspiration: Benign reactive lymph node, see note.

 

 

This lymph node shows a spectrum of small to large sized lymphocytes with scattered
tingibie body macrophages. No evidence of neoplasia is seen.

 

‘Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration

Final Diagnosis
Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Adenocarcinoma, see comment.

Procedure/Addenda for, _ __
ADDENDUM. Date of Addendum.:

Addendum Comment

An immunohistochemicai test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HEr-Q-ncu was
performed on the material submitted for cell block.

 

The test for estrogen receptors is positive . There is strong nuclear staining in 90% of tumor cells.
The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is strong nuclear staining in 80% of tumor cells.
Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is borderline for HERQ/neu oncoprotein over-expression.

An immunohistochemical assay was performed on cell block using the C31 1 monoclonal antibody to
HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 2 on a scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or I are considered negative for over-expression of
HER2/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered borderline. We and others have observed that
many carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene ampliﬁcation. All carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are
issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu
oncoprotein. Tumors in this category show an excellent correlation between the results of
immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show gene ampliﬁcation.

Dr-has reviewed the HERZ/neu stain and concurs.

 

 

l

 

END OF REPORT Paw- ? nfﬁ

