 

Material:
1) Material: stomach, Method of collection: Total organ resection

 

Histopathological Diagnosis: Examination performed onl-

Adenocarcinoma tubulare partim mucocellulare invasivum ventriculi (GB), pT3, pN2.

Tubular and partially mucocellular invasive adenocarcinoma of the stomach

Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No XV/XV.—

Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes No XV/XV.

Macroscopic description:

The specimen consisting of the stomach, after being incised along the greater curvature, sized 18,6x15,4 cm with the omentum
sized 26x20cm.

Wall thickening in the pyloric region over the area of 12x1 cm with ulceration of 2.5cm in diameter.

Distance from the proximal end: 4.9cm, from distal end: 0.6cm.

 

 

Microscopic description:

Adenocarcinoma tubulare partim mucocellulare invasivum ventriculi (G3). Emboliae carcinomatosae massivae vasorum.
Cancerous proliferation involving the whole thickness of the wall, inﬁltrates into the peritoneum, and fat tissue of the
omentum. (mixed type acc. to Lauren class.).

(Proximal boundary) —free of cancer growth. (Distal boundary) — affected with cancer proliferation. Lymph nodes:

1,2/ (periorificial ): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (ll/ll).

3/ (lesser curvature): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (IV/IV). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae
lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.

4/ (greater curvature): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (VI/VI). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae
lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.

6/ (pyrolic): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No (|/|). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi et telae
adiposae perinodalis.

9/ (celiac artery): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (ll/ll). Infiltratio caricnomatosae capsulae lymphonodorum et
telae adiposae perinodalis.

Assistant; Pathologistﬁ

 

 

 

Result of immunohistochemical examination —

HER2 protein stained with Ventana's Pathway HER-2/neu (435) Rabbit Monoclonal Antibody.

 

CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT!

