 

Mbad '3
(Wm We no; Silo/3

5}sz Hutch/2,] N0; CV7"

.1 r I
Collection Date: / ’/ t
/u

Case Number:

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
A: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional node dissection
~ No tumor seen in six lymph nodes (0/6).

B: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional node dissection

- Metastatic high grade gothgljal carcinoma, involving 4 of 5 lymph nodes, size of largest lymph node
metasTaTsTs iicmfno’deﬁnite extran’odal extension of tumor identiﬁed, tumor is present in afferent
lymphatics in several lymph nodes.

- lmmunohistochemistry conﬁrms that the tumor in the lymph nodes is urothelial carcinoma. It is CK7 and
p63 positive, PSA and PAP negative. Blocks 82 and B 3 were stained.

C: Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy
Bladder

Tumor histologic type: invasive urothelialga'rgjngma. lmmunohistochemistry conﬁrms that the tumor in the
bladder is urothelial carcinoma. It IS CK7 and p63 positive, PSA and PAP negative.

Tumor histology grade (WHO classiﬁcation): high grade

 

Microscopic tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.2 cm

Microscopic extent of invasion: into muscularis propria

Focality of tumor: unifocal, tumor is present in the anterior wall of the bladder
Angiolymphatic space invasion: present, extensive

Presence/absence of intraepithelial abnormality: A minimal amount of urothelial carcinoma in situ is present
in urothelium immediately adjacent to invasive carcinoma. Sections of the bladder away from the main tumor
mass are free of intraepithelial abnormalities.

Ureters: no tumor or carcinoma in situ identiﬁed, bilaterall - 22-36F1453D3266
y uum:FAsFAs17-9F64-AGBCEA5EPR Red a if ed

Histolo ic assessment of sur ical mar ins: TCGA-cu-AoVR- III“mull““““llmlll
”re‘er'g'e“:"ee°““m°' g 9 mm” |lll“ii“lliiii'i‘l'i'ii‘i'l‘i'i'liilimiuiuiuuiiiuiuul

I
Ureter, right: free of tumor l“ ||l|||

”rem; ”63 °f ’”m°’ lll HI“ | l ll‘llllllllllllllll I ll||l|||||l||l| l l||| “H “I“ Ill

Paravesicular soft tissue: free of tumor

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: A focal area of papillary cystitis is present in the dome of the bladder (the
suspicious lesion seen grossly is the dome of the bladder shows only papillary cystitis with no neoplasia
identiﬁed).

Lymph nodes: see specimens A and B, above. Total node count is metastatic urothelial carcinoma in 4 of 11
lymph nodes

AJCC staging (bladder):
pT2
pN2

Prostate;
Tumor histologic type: prostae..ag.enosam,ngma lmmunohistochemistry conﬁrms that the tumor in the
prostate is prostate cancer. It is PSA and PAP positive, CK7 and p63 negative. "

Tumor grade (Gleason system): 8 (4+4)

   

__Cvls'2_____._.

  

Approximate percentage of prostate involved by tumor: 10%, greatest tumor dimension approximately 3 cm

Extent of tumor:

Location of tumor involvement in prostate: Right (and left.QQ§1§ELOI..IQD§§..Affommidto base
Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement of tumor within the prostatic capsule: Tumor not conﬁned to prostate capsule
Location of extracapsular tumor involvement: Right and left seminal vesicle

Type of extracapsular tissue involved within tumor} seminal vesicle
Angiolymphatic space invasion: Not identiﬁed

Seminal vesicles: Muscle wall of both right and left seminal vesicles involved with prostate adenocarcinoma.
Adventitial tissue around seminal vesicles involved with prostate adenocarcinoma. The tumor in the seminal
vesicles is conﬁrmed to be prostate cancer. It is PSA and PAP positive, CK7 and p63 negative.

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Surgical margins free of tumor
Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Benign prostatic hyperplasia

Lymph nodes: See specimens A and 8 above. There is no evidence of metastatic prostate cancer in any
lymph node. The tumor in the nodes stains as urothelial carcinoma, and is PSA and PAP negative.

AJCC Staging (prostate):
pT3b
pNO

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive
review of all available information is recommended to determine ﬁnal staging.

Clinical History:
a clinical diagnosis of bladder CA, undergoes cystoprostatectomy.

Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and is a 5 x 4 x 2 cm aggregate of multiple
fragments of yellow/brown ﬁrm lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue. The fragments are palpated for lymph node
candidates. Multiple lymph node candidates from approximately 5 x 4 x 3 mm to 2.5 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm
(disrupted) are identiﬁed.

Block Summary:

A1 - Two lymph node candidates

A2 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned

A3 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned

A4 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned (suspicious)

A5-A7 - Largest disrupted lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
Some ﬁbrofatty tissue is retained in formalin.

Container B is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and is a 6 x 4 x 3 cm aggregate of multiple
fragments of focally roughened brown/yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. Many of the fragments are disrupted. Many of
the lymph node candidates are very ﬁrm. A portion of one of the mid sized (2.4 cm in greatest dimension)
ﬁrm lymph node candidates was given to tissue procurement.

Five lymph node candidates from approximately 6 x 6 x 7 mm to approximately 4.8 x 1.6 x 1.0 cm are
identiﬁed. The second largest lymph node is received markedly disrupted but it is treated as a single lymph
node. The largest lymph node candidate is likely fatty replaced.

Block Summary:

81 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned

82 - One lymph node candidate, sectioned (suspicious)

B3 - Two sections from ﬁrm suspicious lymph node (portion given to tissue procurement)
B4 - Two sections from large ﬁrm disrupted lymph node candidate

BS-BQ - Largest lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

Some ﬁbrofatty tissue as well as remaining suspicious lymph nodes are retained in formalin.
Specimen C:

Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin
Type of specimen(s) received. Unspeciﬁed cystoprostatectomy

Size of urinary bladder: The entire specimen is 18 x 9.5 x 3 cm; the bladder is approximately 8 x 8 x 3 cm
and the attached prostate is approximately 6 x 6 x 5 cm.

Orientation: None provided. lnking: Anterior/blue, posterior/black, and urethral margin/yellow.
Tumor size: 3.2 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm; 2.2 x12 x 0.3 cm.

Tumor location: There are two suspicious areas identiﬁed. The largest lesion is located on the anterior wall
and the smaller lesion is located at the dome. The two lesions are 2 cm from one another. The anterior wall
lesion is ﬁrm, red/white with some gray/yellow discoloration. The lesion at the dome is pink/tan and papillary
appearing.

Other mucosal lesions: The posterior wall is erythematous, as is the trigone. The bladder was received with
a Foley in place.

Gross description of other organs or structures: The right seminal vesicle is approximately 1.8 x 1.8 x 1.2
cm, the left seminal vesicle is approximately 1.7 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The right seminal vesicle upon cross
sectioning has a ﬁrmer whiter cut surface than the left. Sectioning the prostate exhibits tan spongy prostatic
parenchyma in the posterior lobe. The anterior lobe (and much of the prostate) is distorted by marked
periurethral nodularity. in the right posterior lobe, there are two separate well-circumscribed white nodules
from 6 x 3 x 3 mm to approximately 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm.

Digital photograph taken: No

Tissue submitted for special investigation: Tumor from anterior wall lesion and normal bladder was given to
tissue procurement.

Block Summary:
C1 - Urethral margin, en face

C2 - Right ureteral margin, en face

C3 - Left ureteral margin, en face

C4 - Anterior wall lesion with blue inked anterior margin

C5 - Representative anterior wall lesion

06-07 - Full thickness anterior wall lesion, slice bisected, C7 has unlinked peritoneum
C8 - Normal bladder between anterior and dome lesion

CQ~C13 - Dome lesion, serially sectioned and entirely submitted

C14 - Normal posterior wall

C15 - Right ureteral oriﬁce

C16 - Left ureteral oriﬁce (internal)

C17 - Additional left lateral wall

C18 - Trigone

C19 - Right seminal vesicle

C20 - Left seminal vesicle

021 - Representative right approximately mid prostate

022 - Representative approximately mid left prostate

023 - Smaller right posterior lobe well circumscribed right nodule

CZ4-C27- Larger right posterior lobe nodule, serially sectioned and entirely submitted
C28 - Contiguous section of right and left seminal vesicles (left has a small 2 mm in greatest dimension
white nodule)

C29 - Anterior lobe of prostate, towards base, trigone of bladder present

C30-C48 - Additional posterior lobe of prostate from mid prostate towards base

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

Appropriate internal and/or external positive and negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the
immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed as analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR).
These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

_ , _. . These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-
88) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testings.

Signature
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

