 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - B.) RENAL MASS, RIGHT, AND BASE OF RIGHT RENAL MASS, RESECTlON,
- RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, PAPILLARY VARIANT, TYPE I.
- Tumor measures 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.
- Tumor conﬁned to kidney.
- No lymphovascular or perineural invasion identiﬁed.
- MARGINS: INDETERMINATE (SEE COMMENT).
- LYMPH NODES: NONE IDENTIFIED.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Renal cell carcinoma, papillary variant, type I.
Primary tumor: pT1 a.
Regional lymph nodes: pNX.
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Margin status: Indeterminate.
Pathologic stage: I.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Perineural invasion: Not identified.

COMMENT: lmmunohistochemical studies show that the tumor is positive for PAX-8,
CD10, racemase, and EMA. It is negative for inhibin, CK5/6, p63, CK7, CK20, CD117,

synaptophysin, and chromogranin. The staining patterns support the iven dia nosis.
All the immunohistochemical studies were interpreted here at
— The inhibin stain is the only stain which was performe outside, at

Due to the fragmented nature of the specimen, the margin status cannot be accurately
determined by pathologic examination. Both specimen B and the three cauterized
fragments of renal tissue (in cassette A8) are free of tumor. I am not certain whether
the combination of specimen B and the tissue in A8 is the complete surgical margin and
whether or not it was fully overlying the pieces of specimen A that have tumor at the
edge. Clinical correlation regarding the margin status is suggested.

  
  

Kidney Tumor Staging Information

 
  
 

 

Page 1
This report continuesm (FINAL)

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Data derived from currents ecimen. Sta in in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbookﬁ

Procedure:
Specimen type:
Specimen laterality:

Tumor Features:
Tumor size:
Tumor focality:
Histologic type:

Histologic grade (Fuhrman nuclear grade):

Sarcomatoid features:
Macroscopic extent of tumor:
Microscopic tumor extension:

Lymph Nodes:

Margin evaluation:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:
Primary tumor:
Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:
Margin status:
Pathologic stage:

Histologic ﬁndings in non-neoplastic kidney:
Additional histologic ﬁndings:
Comment:

Partial nephrectomy.
Portion of kidney.
Right.

3.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Unifocal.

Renal cell carcinoma, papillary variant. type I.
N/A.

Not identiﬁed.

Conﬁned to kidney.

Conﬁned to kidney.

None identiﬁed.

Indeterminate.

pT1 a.

pNX.

pMX.
Indeterminate.
I.

None.
None.
N/A.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

A. Mass;right renal mass
B. Mass;base of right renal mass

Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Right renal mass

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled right renal mass and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of an ovoid
fragment of renal tissue which measures 3 x 2.3 x 1.3 cm. The apparent cortical surface has a slightly
irregular contour and is dull red. The opposite surface (deep surface) shows a rim of prominent cautery
artifact and approximately two-thirds of the deep surface has a torn and disrupted appearance with friable
tumor present. The cauterized portion of the deep margin of this specimen is inked blue. On serial
sectioning of this specimen, there is a partially cavitary and very friable tumor mass present which
measures 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm. Also in the specimen container are multiple fragments of friable tan to light
brown tumor which are 3 cm in aggregate and multiple fragments of lobulated fatty tissue measuring 7 x 5
x 2 cm in aggregate and weighing 39 grams. The specimen container also has three additional fragments
of heavily cauterized renal tissue which vary from 1.1 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm to 1.7 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm. Each of these
fragments has focally cauterized surface. Sections of the adipose tissue reveal no grossly identiﬁable
tumor. Representative sections ofthe tumor are obtained for research purposes. The entire resection of
kidney tissue is sequentially submitted in cassettes A1 -A6. Representative sections ofthe separately
submitted friable tumor are submitted in cassette A7. The smaller fragments of cauterized renal tissue are
submitted in cassette A8 and re resentative sections of the separately submitted adipose tissue are
submitted in cassette A9.‘

8. The specimen is labeled base of right renal (tumor) mass and is received in formalin. It consists of ﬁve
fragments of dark brown to nearly black, heavily cauterized tissue which are 1 cm in aggregate. The
largest intact fragment measures 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The tissue is entirely submitted in cassette B1.

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

 

