 

SPECIMEN
A. Level 9 node
B. Level 10 node
C. Level 11 node
D. Left lower lobe
E. Level 5 node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung lesion, rule out cancer
POST—OP DIAGNOSIS: Diagnosis: lung lesion.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

lower lobe, lobectomy — Mucinous adenocarcinoma.

lobe, bronchial margin — No tumor seen. -
GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh labeled "level 9 node" is a 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension mucoid—appearing dusky gray—black
tissue
in keeping with y h d hich is bisected and entirely submitted

in one block. eIla-e-
B. R i labeled "level 10 node" are three

fragmented, markedly cauterized gray—black tissues ranging
o 0 1 in greatest dimension which are submitted in toto.
II IC-Received fresh labeled "level 11 node" are two rubbery
tan—red to gray—black tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring 0.35 cm in greatest dimension and 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm.
The

larger tissue is bisected a e specimens are entirely submitted
in two blocks as labeled.

BLOCK S A 1 — Bisected larger tissue; 2 — smaller tissue in
toto.

D. Received fresh labeled "left lower lobe"it is a single

piece of lung tissue measuring 25 x 18 x 10 cm in greatest
dimensions. The pleural surface is focally puckered. Ink is
applied at the pleural surface of the specimen is serially
sectioned. On cut section the lung consists of firm tan
gelatinous/mucinous tissue which measures 21 x 14 x 10 cm in
greatest dimensions. Only a thin rim of peripheral uninvolved lung
tissue is present. The firm tan tissue does not extends to involve
the tissue surrounding the bronchial margin. RS: DFS1 and DFS2:
Representative sections of lung tissue, DFS 3 bronchial margin, D1—

D13: sections of lung lesion, (D4 and D5: pleural puckering) D14 —

uninvolved lung, D15 — possible nodes.
E. Received fresh labeled "level 5 node" are four soft
gray—black tissues ranging from . 0 c n greatest
dimension which are submitted in toto. II -:

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

011

A. Sections of the level 9 node demonstrate no evidence of

metastasis in one lymph node.

B. The level 10 lymph node demonstrates 3 lymph nodes with no

evidence of metastasis.

C. The level 11 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of metastasis

in two lymph nodes.

D. The following template applies to the left lower lobe:

Histologic type: Mucinous adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Well—differentiated

Primary tumor: 21 cm (pT3)

Margins of resection: Uninvolved

Pleura: uninvolved

Regional lymph nodes: No evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes
this specimen and 10 additional lymph nodes in specimens A., B.,

and E. (pNO)

Distant metastasis: Cannot be evaluated by this specimen (pMX).
Other findings: The specimen shows a well differentiated mucinous
adenocarcinoma. Much of the specimen demonstrates lepidic growth
which is suggestive of a bronchoalveolar carcinoma. Multiple foci
of invasion are identified however. Almost the entire lobe of the
lung was involved and all sections taken from the 21 cm lesion
identified grossly contain mucinous adenocarcinoma.

14, 15x2, 5, 3X4

B. There is no evidence of metastasis in 4 level V lymph nodes.

DIAGNOSIS

A. Level 9 lymph node, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node (0/1).

B. Level 10 lymph nodes, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes (0/3).

C. Level 11 lymph nodes, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis in 2 lymph nodes (0/2).

D. Lung, left lower lobe, lobectomy:
— Mucinous adenocarcinoma, well—differentiated, and 21 cm in
greatest — No evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes (0/3).
— Surgical margin uninvolved.

E. Level 5 lymph nodes, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis in 4 lymph nodes (0/4).

 

——— End Of Report ———

