Tumor
HIPAA
Prior

,1

 

Surgical Final Reporti Page 1 of 5
Temporary Copy

UUID : 7E69142C-4F3A-4F81-SDCB-72C86F689083

TCGA-EK-AZRa-BlA-PR RedaCtEd
Case: , Patient: |||IllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
8033;:de ‘ ﬂaw" ill Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllgllﬂilllllllﬂ”ll
r Y- ' IlllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllll”Illlllllllllllllll

MS Sperm“-..

A) Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries/fallopian tube. upper 1/3 vagina. B) Right pelvic lymph
nodes. C) Left pelvic lymph nodes.

/ (i A , 0 , 3
MS Clinical History CW, ad; was Yaw/3
invasive cervical cancer. Jilin Wk N” g 653,? j“) 7/?[1/

MS Gross Description

The specimens are received fresh in three containers, each designated with the patient's
name

Part A is designated "uterus, cervix, 830". The specimen consists of a total hysterectomy
specimen to include a uterus with attached cervix and attached bilateral adnexa. The left
fallopian tube with fimbriae that is moderately hemorrhagic is 2 cm in length and up to 0.7
cm in diameter. The ovary is tan-pink and 2 cm in greatest dimension. Bivalving reveals a
normal ovarian architecture as well as a 0.6 cm in greatest dimension cystic structure
containing a serosanguineous fluid. The right fallopian tube is also hemorrhagic, 4 cm in
length and up to 0.6 cm in diameter. The ovary is tan, gray—purple, 3.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Sectioning reveals a normal ovarian architecture as well as a few cystic
structures containing a serous to serosanguineous fluid ranging from 1.5 to 1.0 cm. There
is also a paratubal cyst containing a clear fluid and smooth inner lining, 0.6 cm in greatest
dimension.

The uterus cervix is 247 g, 13 x 8.5 x 5.9 cm. The serosa is tan—pink and predominantly
smooth. The paracervical/parametrial margin is inked black. The attached cervical cuff is 2
cm in depth approximately 12 o'clock and 2.5 at the 6 o'clock aspect. There is a large
cervical mass on the anterior cervix protruding through the os. Upon bivalving, the
endocervical canal is 2.5 cm and the endometrial cavity is 3.5 cm from cornu to cornu. The
distance from fundus to squamocolumnar junction is approximately 7.5 cm. This cervical
mass described above is 5.5 x 5.5 x 3.7 cm, approximately 3.2 cm from the closest vaginal
cuff resection margin (12 o'clock). It is also well away from the endometrial cavity.
Sectioning through the cervical mass is approximately 2.5 cm in depth and well away from
the paracervical, parametrial, and paravaginal margins (closest 2 cm, parametrial margin).
The endom'etrium is 0.4 cm in thickness and the myometrium is 2.7 cm in thickness. The
parenchyma is of normal uterine architecture. Sectioning the soft tissue on both the left and
right parametrial side, the right side has a small 0.4 cm nodule and the left has a 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension ﬁrm nodule. The Specimen is submitted as per code of sections.

CODE OF SECTIONS:

 

A1 Left fallopian tube and ovary

A2 Right fallopian tube and ovary

A3 Vaginal cuff margin 12 o'clock to 3 o'clock (red ink 12 o‘clock), en face

A4 Vaginal cuff margin 3 o'clock to 6 o'clock (red ink 3 o'clock), en face

A5 Vaginal cuff margin 6 o'clock to 9 o'clock (red ink 6 o'clockﬁrlfacew -. ._ _.., ,.--

Surgical Final Report Page 20f 5
Temnorarv Copy

Case: Patient: .
Collected: ‘ ID:
Ordered by i Location;
A6 Vaginal cuff margin 9 o'clock to 12 o'clock (red "TR 9 o'clock), en face
A7 Anterior endometrium/myometrium
A8 Posterior endometrium/myometrium
A9—A10.
A1 1-A12 Cervical mass with relation to parametrial margin (black ink), bisected
A13-A15 Full thickness section of cervical mass, trisected
A16 Large nodule from parametrial soft tissue, left side
A17 Small parametrial soft tissue nodule, right side

Part B is designated "right pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of Iobulated adipose
tissue, '65 x 6.0 x 3.0 cmiln aggregate dimension. Sectioning reveals 8 lymph node
candidates ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 cm. The specimen is submitted as per code of sections.

CODE OF SECTIONS:

B1 Four lymph nodes, intact
82 Single lymph node, bisected
BS Single lymph node, bisected
B4 Single lymph node, bisected
B5 Two lymph nodes, intact

Part C is designated "left pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of Iobulated adipose
tissue, 5.2 x 4.2 x 2.2 cm in aggregate dimension. Sectioning reveals six lymph node
candidates ranging from 0.2 to 0.8 cm. The Specimen is submitted as per code of sections".

CODE OF SECTIONS:

C1 Single lymph node, bisected
CZ Single lymph node, bisected
03 Single lymph node, trisected
C4 Single lymph node, trisected
C5 Two lymph nodes, intact

MS Microscopic Description
Sections of the left and right fallopian tubes and ovaries labeled A1 and A2 exhibit
hemorrhagic corpus luteal cysts. Old corpora lutea are also seen. The accompanying

fallopian tubes are unremarkable. The right ovary shows a follicular cyst. A paratubal cyst is
also seen in the right fallopian tube.

Sections labeled A3 through A6 from the circumferential vaginal cuff margin show segments
of normally maturing squamous mucosa. No evidence of malignancy is seen in the multiple
sections examined.

Sections of the uterine body reveal a secretory endometrium. Areas of superficial
adenomyosis are identified. No evidence of malignancy is seen in the sections examined.

Surgical Final Report.._ Page 3of 5
Temporary Copy

Case: Patient: “
Collected: 1 ID:
Ordered by. _ * Location:

Part A9 through A15 reveals multiple segments of cervix which show a large invasive
poorly-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Tumor necrosis is seen in several areas.
Focal apoptotic and keratinizing cells are seen at the base of the tumor. A glandular
component is not appreciated. Many of the tumor cells exhibit a large amount of eosinophilic
cytoplasm. Numerous atypical mitoses are seen. Koilocytic atypia is seen focally along the
surface. Overall, the tumor has a pushing margin.

Part A16 from the left parametrial nodule reveals a lymph node which exhibits metastatic
squamous cell carcinoma. No extranodal extension is seen.

Part A17 shows a small lymph node from the right parametrial region. This shows no
evidence of malignancy.

Part B from the right pelvic lymph nodes show metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of 9
lymph nodes. '

Part C from the left pelvic lymph nodes show 6 lymph nodes without evidence of
malignancy. -

MS Diagnosis
A. Uterus, radical hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:
Invasive poorly-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of uterine cervix, grade
III (see Comment).
Tumor Stage: pT1b2 [FIGO lBZ]; pN1; pMX.
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma (see Comment).
Secretory endometrium.
Superficial adenomyosis.
Ovaries, right and left:
Hemorrhagic corpus luteal cysts and follicular cyst.
Fallopian tubes, right and left:
No pathologic alterations.
Left parametrial lymph node:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
Right parametrial lymph node:
No evidence of malignancy.

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of 9 lymph nodes.

C. Left pelvic lymph nodes:
Six lymph nodes showing no evidence of malignancy.

MS Comment

Surgical Final Report ' Page 4of 5
Temporary Copy

Case: ; Patient
Collected: ID:
Ordered by. Location: .
A: Cervix, Macroscopic
SPECIMEN TYPE:

Radical Hysterectomy
TUMOR SITE:

Right superior quadrant

Left superior quadrant
TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 5.5 cm

*Additional dimensions: 5.5 x 3.7 cm
OTHER ORGANS PRESENT:

Right ovary

Left ovary

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube

‘ Uterine corpus
Vagina

A: Cervix, Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Squamous cell carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
G3: Poorly differentiated
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) TNM [FIGO]:
pT1b2 [IB2]: Cervical carcinoma confined to uterus, clinically visible lesion more than
4.0 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pN1; Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 17
Number involved: 2
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed
MARGINS:
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 20 mm
Specify margin, if possible: Parametrial margin
*VENOUS/LYMPHATIC (LARGE/SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (V/L):
*Absent

MS Transcribed:

Surgical Final Report I Page 50f 5 6
Temporary Copy
Case: Patient: ' , ;

Collected: - 3 ID: ’
Ordered by. . Location:

