UUID2D5167627 -Zan-4210-BAFC -CD73555485D9
TCGA-QB-A53I-01A—P

R Redacted

ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
i” lllilllllllllll ||||l|||||ll|| l l||l|llll||ll||llllll|ll|
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil||lllllllllll|lll||l|lll|||

 

’- 1 I _..._.n ., L

1

Patient Name ' [MR# {Observation Date [Last Edited Date 7
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE:

Diagnosis: A. Soft tissue mass. chest wall, right, excision: - Mature adipose tissue, consistent with lipoma, size 14x10 cm,
see comment.

B. Lymph node, level Vli, lymph node. excision: - Negative for malignancy.

C. Lymph node, level Vii. excision: - Negative for malignancy.

D. Lymph node. level ix, excision: ~ Negative for malignancy.

E. Lymph node, level Vlil, excision:— Negative for malignancy. .

F. Lymph node, level Vlil, excision: - Fibroadipose tissue. - Negative for malignancy. - No lymph node identiﬁed.
G. Lymph node, level Vlil, excision: ~ Negative for malignancy.

H. Lymph node, level lX, excision: - Fibroadipose tissue. - Negative for malignancy. - No lymph node identiﬁed.
l. Lymph node, level Vll, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
J. Lymph node, level Vll, excisionza Negative for malignancy. I c b w 0 - 3
K. Lym h node, level VII, excision: — Negative for malignancy. 5, ‘ . . a . ., r '
L. Lymgh node, level Vll, excision: — Negative for malignancy. t W (W Ml’ Nb 3074/3
M. Lymph node, level Vll, excision: - Negative for malignancy. $412,: IVA/5 WW (,5; C344
N. Lymph node. level VII, excision: - Negative for malignancy. '

O. Lymph node, level X, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

P. Lymph node, level X. excision: - Negative for malignancy.

0. Lymph node, level Xl, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

R. Lymph node. level XI, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

u [a570-

8. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy. - Moderately differentiated (size ~ 3.3 cm) squamous cell carcinoma.
endobronchial, fragmented. See comment. — Tumor is near the staple line, final margin is free. - Tumor does not involve
pleura. - Metastatic carcinoma seen in one of ﬁve peribronchial lymph nodes (1/5): Pathologic stage: pTZa, N1, Mx
— There are several hyalinized granulomas. - Non neoplastic parenchyma shows mild centriacinar emphysema.

Bronchial margin, excision: Negative for malignancy.

. Lymph node, level lV, excision: - Negative for malignancy. '

Lymph node, level lV, excision: -7 Negative for malignancy. — Hyalinized calciﬁed granuloma.

. Lymph node, level lV. excision: - Negative for malignancy. - Hyallnized calciﬁed lymph node.
Lymph node, level lV. excision: - Negative for malignancy; - Hyallnized calciﬁed lymph node.
Lymph node, level lV, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

2. Lymph node, level ll, excision: — Negative formalignancy. - Hyallnized calciﬁed granuloma.
AA. Lymph node. level ll, excision: - Negative for malignancy. — Hyallnized calciﬁed granuloma.
BB. Lymph node. level ll. excision: — Negative for malignancy. — Hyallnized calciﬁed granuloma.

xxé<ca

CC. Lymph node, left main stem. excision: - Blood and adipose tissue- Negative for malignancy. - No lymph node
identiﬁed.

Pathologist Comments
Due to the fragmented nature of the specimen the tumor size is estimated to be 3.3 cm, based on radiologic study.

Due to the large size of the chest wall lipoma, local recurrence may Occur.
Clinical information: This is a year-old man with lung cancer.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
Si: Lung, right upper lobe, resection: - Squamous cell carcinoma.
U1: Bronchial margin. excision: -'Negative for malignancy

Gross Description

The specimens are received in twenty—nine containers, each in formalin and each marked with the patient’s name
and medical record number. Additionally, the first container is labeled "chest wall tumor, right side, final.“ Within this
container, we have a solitary mass which is yellow in color with various attachments of fascial tissue and skeletal muscle.
Overall, this tissue measures 140 x 10.0 x 6.5 cm. it is very ﬁrm with no cystic features on the-outside. it appears to be
invested in a thin fascia! layer. The outside will be inked green prior to serial sectioning. The composition appears to be
fatty in nature. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing a homogeneous fat-like consistency which appears to be
entirely inscribed by the green ink. No necrosis is noted. Representative sections are submitted into cassettes A1—A14.

The second container is additionally labeled “level Vll lymph node.“ Within this container, we have a 1.0 x 1.5 cm
tan-black fragmented tissue. it is submitted in its entirety into B1.

The third container is additionally labeled "level Vli lymph node." Within this container, we have a 1.5 x 0.7 fragment
of tan— black tissue. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette Ci.

The fourth container is additionally labeled “level lX lymph node." Within this container, we have a 1.0 x 0.7 cm
piece of ten fragment tissue that is submitted in its entirety into cassette D1.

The fifth container is additionally labeled "level Vlll lymph node." Within this container, we have a single piece of
tissue which is tan-black in color. it measures 0.3 x 0.5 cm. it islsubmitted in its entirety into cassette E1.

The sixth container is additionally labeled "level Vlll lymph node." Within this container, we have a single piece of
tan-brown tissue which measure 0.5 x 0.3 cm. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette F 1.

The seventh container is additionally labeled "level Vlll lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of tan- black tissue which measures 0.5 x 0.6 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette G1.

The eighth container is additionally labeled "level IX lymph node.“ Within this container, we have a single fragment
of tan- black tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 cm. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette H1.

The ninth container is» additionally labeled "level Vll lymph node." Within this container, we have a 1.2 x 0.9 cm piece
of tan- black tissue. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette i1.

The tenth container is additionally labeled "level Vll' lymph node." Within this container, we have three fragments of
tan-black tissue which measure in aggregate 1.0 x 1.2 cm. These are submitted in their entirety into. cassette J1.

The eleventh container is additionally labeled "level Vii lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of tan- black tissue which measures 1.5 x 0.4 cm- it is submitted in its entirety cassette K1.

The twelfth container is additionally labeled "level Vll lymph node." Within this container, we have two fragments of
tan-black tissue which measure in aggregate 1.0 x 1.0 cm. These are submitted in their entirety into cassette L1.

The thirteenth container is additionally labeled "level Vii lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of tissue measuring.1.2 x 0.5 cm. it is tan—black in color and submitted in its entirety into cassette M1.

The fourteenth container is additionally labeled "level Vii lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of tan-brown material which measures 1.1 x 0.5 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in N1.

The ﬁfteenth container is additionally labeled "level X lymph node." Within this container, we have a single fragment
of tan- black tissue which measures 1.1 x 0.5 cm . it is submitted in its entirety into cassette 01.

The sixteenth container is additionally labeled "level X lymph node." Within this container, there is a piece of black—
tan tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.5 cm. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette P1.

The seventeenth container is additionally labeled "level Xi lymph node." Within this container, we have a piece of
tan-black tissue which measures 0.4 x 0.4 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette Q1.

The eighteenth container is additionally labeled "level Xi lymph node." Within this container. we have a single
fragment of tan~black tissue which measures 0.4 x 0.5 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in R1.

The nineteenth container is additionally labeled "right upper lobe." Within this container, we have a orange cassette
labeled with the patients name and date of birth and S1. Within this container, these are remnant frozen sections, and
measure 2.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. They are submitted in their entirety into cassette 81. Within this container, we have

alobe of lung. The lobe of lung measures 18.5 x 14.0 x 4.8 cm. The hilar surface has what appears to be a nodule
attached to the side of the hilar vessels. Otherwise, the hilar surface is smooth and shiny. There is some mucous which

not reveal any additional masses, nodules, or cysts. There is a firm pink parenchyma with minimal anthracosis. There is
one hard nodule which is identiﬁed and extracted. This appears to be an old calciﬁed lymph node. A representative
section is submitted into 87. Representative samples of the remainder of the lung are submitted into cassettes SS and
810.

The twentieth container is additionally labeled "bronchial margin." Within this container, we have a single cassette
marked with the patient’s name, date birth, and U1. Within this container, we have a fragment of white tissue which
measures 0.6 x 0.5cm. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette T1.

The twenty ﬁrst container is additionally labeled "level IV lymph node." Within this container, We have a single
fragment of tan-black tissue which in aggregate measures 1.0 x 0.9 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette U1 .

The twenty second container is additionally labeled "level lV lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of tan-brown material which measures 1.1 x 0.6 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette V1.

The twenty third container is additionally labeled "level IV lymph node." Within this container, we have two fragments
of tan— black tissue which measure 1.1 x 0.6 cm in aggregate. The tissues are submitted into cassette W1.

The twenty fourth container is additionally labeled "level lV lymph node." Within this container, we have multiple
fragments of tan-black material which in aggregate measures 1.5 x 1.0 cm. This is submitted in its entirety into cassette
X1.

The twenty ﬁfth container is additionally labeled "level lV lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragmented tan-brown tissue measuring 0.1 x 0.8 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into Y1.

The twenty sixth container is additionally labeled "level ll lymph node." Within this container, we have a piece of
white tissue which in aggregate 1.0 x 0.8 cm. it is submitted in its entirety into 21.

The twenty seventh container is additionally labeled "level ll lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of white tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.3 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette AA1.

The twenty eighth container is additionally labeled "level ll lymph node." Within this container, we have a single
fragment of white tissue which measures 0.3 x 0.2 cm. It is submitted in its entirety into cassette BBl .

The twenty ninth container is additionally labeled "left main stem lymph node." Within this container, we have a.
single fragment of tan-black material measuring 1.0 x 0.6 cm. it is submitted in its entirety into cassette CC1.

Block Summary
A1—A14 Chest wall tumor, representative sections.

31- Level Vll lymph node.
C1— Level Vll lymph node.
D1— Level lX lymph node.
E1- Level Vlll lymph node.
F1~ Level Vlll lymph node.
G1 - Level Vlll lymph node.
H1— Level lX lymph node.
l1- Level Vll lymph node.
J1- Level Vii lymph node.
K1— Level Vll lymph node.

L1- Level Vll lymph node.

M1~ Level Vll lymph node.

,Nl— Level VII lymph node.

01- Level X lymph node.

Pi- Level X lymph node.

(21- Level XI lymph node.

R‘l- Level XI' lymph node.

Sl~ Remnant frozen section, right upper lobe.
82-84 Tumor adjacent to cartilaginous structure.
SS Adjacent to staple line.

86- A section of potential tumor adjacent to other staple line.
87- Calcified lymph node.

88—810 Unlnvolved-lung parenchyma.

Ti- Bronchial margin.

U1- Level IV lymph node.

VI- Level IV lymph node.

W1- Level IV lymph node.

X1~ Level IV lymph node.

Yi- Level IV lymph node.

21—. ‘ Level II lymph node.

AAt— Level II lymph node.

BB 1- Level ll lymph node.

CCt- Left main stem lymph node.

Microscopic Description: A microscopic examination has been performed.

SP Synoptic Report 8: Thorax Lung

SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: right upper lobe

PROCEDURE: Lobectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Disrupted

SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Right

TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Cannot be determined

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal

HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Squamous cell carcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: 62: Moderately differentiated

VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION: Not identiﬁed

TUMOR EXTENSION: Not applicable

BRONCHIAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

VASCULAR MARGIN: Unlnvolved by invasive carcinoma

PARENCHYMAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

PARIEI‘AL PLEURAL MARGIN: Not applicable

CHEST WALL MARGIN: Not applicable.

TREATMENT EFFECT: Not applicable

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Not identiﬁed

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT2a: Tumor > 3 cm, and < 5 cm in greatest dimension surrounded by lung or visceral
pleura, without bronchoscopic evidence of invasion in the main bronchus; or Tumor < 5 cm in greatest dimension with
any of the following: involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the visceral pleura; associated
with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region

REGlONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pN1: Metastasis in ipsilateral peribronchial and/or ipsilaterai hilar lymph nodes,
and intra pulmonary nodes, including involvement by direct extension
DISTANT METASTASIS (pszNot applicable

 
 
 
 
 

liagnosis Discrepancy
Tumor Site

  

IIPAA

’llm

  
 
 
 

Case is
{EVIL‘WEI Initials

    
     

Date Reviewed:

 

l lifﬁ‘ip'

