UUID: 8F55DFBS- -CE3D- 42FF- 9247- 480F3C
TCGA- 3U- -ASBD- 91A- PR Agnew:

|||||lllIlllll|llllllllllllllIllllllllIlllllllllllIlllllRlllllllllcllted
III I! illIlllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ” C3D *3
Sample # Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 4p 4.:

Gender: Male 7 “wt/(Lat; WW, 401 L-

DOB: magi-WM 90 63/5
Race: White Sat, © ﬂaw/W

(268. 4
Report Date: Q43 @2162}! 4,.

Tissue Procurement Date:

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Parietal visceral pleura; pleurectomy:

— Biphasic mesothelioma, see parameters.

B. Parietal visceral pleura; pleurectomy:

- Biphasic mesothelioma, see parameters and comment.

C. Lymph node #7; biopsy:

- Two of four lymph nodes with metastatic mesothelioma, epithelioid (2/4).

D. Lymph node 4R; biopsy:

- Five of ﬁve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/5).

E. Lymph node #8; biopsy:

- One lymph node with metastatic mesothelioma, epithelioid (1/1).
F. Lymph node #11; biopsy:

- Two lymph nodes, no tumor (0/2).

Thoracic Mesothelioma Pathologic Parameters
Pleura/Pericardium, Resection

MACROSCOPIC

Specimen Type: Pleural resection

Tumor Site: Right pleura

Tumor Conﬁguration and Size: Diffuse, maximum thickness: 4.6 cm
MICROSCOPIC

Histologic Type: Biphasic mesothelioma (40% epithelioid, 60% sarcomatoid)
Tumor Extension:

Into but not through diaphragm

Lung parenchyma

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/ Small Vessel) Invasion: Absent

Margins: Cannot be assessed

Additional Pathologic Findings: Pleural plaques with focal calciﬁcations
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)

*Primary Tumor (pT)

pT2: Tumor involves any of the ipsilateral pleural surfaces with at

least 1 of the following: invasion of diaphragmatic muscle, invasion of lung
parenchyma

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

pN2: Metastases in the subcarinal lymph node(s) and/or the ipsilateral
internal mammary or mediastinal lymph node(s)

Number examined: 12

Number involved: 3

*Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for pleural mesothelioma of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC)
and the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Comment

Immunohistochemistry with appropriate controls demonstrates that the epithelioid
component is positive for calretinin and nuclear WT-l and negative for MOC31
consistent with mesothelioma. The sarcomatoid component has weaker staining
with both mesothelial markers.

xxxx

[] M.D.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D., PhD.

Electronically Signed Out by U, MD.

Clinical History:
The patient is an year-old male with mesothelioma of the lung undergoing a
right thoracotomy, pleurectomy and bronchoscopy.

Specimens Received:

A: Mesothelioma parietal visceral pleura
B: Mesothelioma parietal visceral pleura
C: #7

D: 4R

E: #8

F: #1 1

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in six containers each labeled with the patient’s
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, " 1. Mesothelioma parietal
Visceral pleura". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an oriented 806.7 g,
25 X 15 X 6 cm in overall dimension pleurectomy specimen. The specimen has a
volumetric displacement of approximately 650-700 mL. A stitch designates the

diaphragmatic surface. The ragged red—brown diaphragmatic surface measures 21 x
14.5 cm, is up to 0.8 cm maximum thickness and is inked black. There is a 13.5 x
7.5 cm portion of smooth, pink-white abdominal peritoneum which measures up to
0.1 cm in thickness and is inked blue. Serial sectioning reveals diffusely,

nodular, ﬁrm tan-pink parietal pleura and visceral pleura containing shaggy,

soft gray—brown remnants of lung parenchyma with scattered anthracotic pigment.
Serial sectioning reveals ﬁrm, solid whorled white conﬂuent nodules scattered
throughout with a thickness up to 0.9 cm. The largest area of thickening is

located along the peripheral edge of the diaphragmatic surface, measures up to

4.6 cm maximum thickness, abuts black ink and bulges into the surrounding soft
lobules of adipose tissue. This portion has an intervening septum of soft,
glistening yellow adipose tissue. Additional thickened areas subjacent to the
diaphragmatic surface focally come to within 0.2 cm of blue ink (abdominal
peritoneum). No pericardium is grossly identiﬁed.

Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections are taken as follows:

Al-A2: Nodule to black ink (diaphragmatic surface)

A3: Nodule to blue ink (diaphragmatic peritoneum)

A4: Bulging nodule into the surrounding adipose

A5-A7: Fused visceral and parietal pleura with remnants of lung parenchyma
A8: Thickest area of remaining red-brown muscle ﬁbers of the

diaphragm and nodule

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "2. mesothelioma

parietal Visceral pleura “. Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 218.7 g,
20 x 15 x 3 cm in overall dimension unoriented, slightly conical-shaped
pleurectomy specimen. The specimen has a volumetric displacement of
approximately 250 mL. The specimen is diffusely thickened and fused. The outer
surface is shaggy, mottled tan-pink to gray with yellow streaks and with visible
ridged imprints of the ribs. The inner lining of the visceral pleura contains

soft, shaggy remnants of brown lung parenchyma with scattered anthracotic
pigment. Serial sectioning reveals conﬂuent nodular white-gray cut surfaces
measuring up to 1.4 cm maximum thickness. There are also scattered areas of
calciﬁcation. Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections are
submitted as B1-B6 (B6 after slight decalciﬁcation).

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#7". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a 2.7 x 2.1 x 1.1 cm aggregate of rubbery, tan-yellow to
gray-black tissue fragments (4 total). 4 rubbery, partially fragmented lymph
node candidates are identiﬁed ranging in size from 0.8-1.9 cm greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:

C1 : 3 lymph nodes
C2: One lymph node, bisected

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4R". Received fresh

and placed in formalin is a 2.2 x 2.1 x 0.9 cm aggregate of rubbery, tan-yellow
to gray-black tissue fragments (5 total). Each fragment contains gray—black
fragmented lymph node candidates ranging in size from 0.6-1.3 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely as follows:

D1: 2 lymph nodes
D2: 3 lymph nodes

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#8". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a 1.1 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm ovoid, rubbery gray-black lymph node
candidate. The specimen is bisected and submitted entirely as El.

F. The sixth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#11". Received fresh
and placed in formalin are 2 fragments of rubbery, gray-black to tan-yellow

lymph node candidates ranging in size from 0.5—0.6 cm greatest dimension. The
specimen is submitted in toto as F1.

XXX

[]

 

