Case Number :
Collection Date :

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
A: Thyroid,“ total thyroidectomy

Tumor histologic type: papil_larythyloi£carcirrgma
Tumor size: 2.0 cm (gross), largest in any one slide 1.1 cm
Tumor growth pattern: papillary

Extent of invasion:

Extra-capsular: not identiﬁed

Vascular: not identiﬁed

Tumor multicentricity: Mgltifocﬁal

ltb— 0 r3 .1
daww‘ww WW7”? W‘4 N“ W15

st: Wm (17:;
(I

‘ - -4017-862A-05526959C9AD
UUID.DDDGGSBGI E047 Redacted

llmutillliliiiliiiiiﬁliiiilililmunImmnmuIu
iunuuuuuummnlnmnmuun
iiiiiiiliiiliiliiiiiiilllllIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllll

Surgical margins: Close, but negative (to <05 m of the R lobe anterior margin (A1))

Background thyroid: Lymphocytic thyroiditis, nodular hyperplasia.

Lymph nodes: Specimen A: metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma (1/3)

Total: metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma (5/7)
Largest metastasis : 1.1 cm (B1)

Extra-nodal extension: present (B1)

AJCC Stage: pTl le pr

B: Lymph nodes, right central neck, dissection
- Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma (4/4)

Clinical History:
papillary thyroid cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "total thyroid."
Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: total thyroidectomy

Size and weight of specimen: 6.2 grams; 4.3 cm medial to lateral, 4.9 cm superior to inferior, and 1.2 cm

anterior to posterior

Orientation: As per the requisition, the stitch designates the left superior pole. The specimen is inked as

follows: posteri0r=green, anterior=violet, isthmus=yellow.

 

p—-

Tumor location: right inferior thyroid gland

Tumor description: solitary, rounded, red/tan, gritty cut surface, circumscribed, non-encapsulated
Tumor size: 2 x 1.2 x 1.6 cm

Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the thyroid gland: conﬁned

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The tumor abuts the anterior and posterior margins of the right
thyroid lobe.

Appearance of thyroid gland away from tumor: multinodular appearance

Tissue submitted for special investigations: representative tumor is submitted to Tissue Procurement
Lymph nodes: See Specimen B

Digital photograph taken: no

Block Summary:

Al-AZ - right superior thyroid nodule, submitted in contiguous sections, inferior to superior
A3 - representative right middle thyroid adjacent to right inferior thyroid nodule

A4 - representative right superior thyroid

A5 - isthmus

A6 - representative left thyroid lobe

Tissue remains

Container B is additionally labeled "right central neck dissection." The specimen consists of two red/brown
ﬁbrofatty tissue ﬁ'agments measuring 3.4 x 1.8 x 1.1 cm in aggregate. Isolated from the tissue ﬁ'agment are
four lymph node candidates ranging in size from 1.2 cm to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
otherwise grossly unremarkable.

Block summary:
B1 - one lymph node candidate, trisected
B2 - three lymph node candidates

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

Signature

Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist:

I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above
diagnosis(es).

Electronically Signed by:

