UUID:28768844- 28A! -44EB-BGC7- 55973509535E
TCGA-VF -A8A9 -6

I”llII"HIlIlllIlIlIllIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllIIIIlIIIIﬁIted
uumuumulmu IlIlI um mum IIIIIIIII
III IIII II IIII I IIIIIIIIIII II IIIIII I I IIIIII I IlII IIII "III II I II I III

 

Panel: surgical Patholagy Final Repnr‘t
Date: '

I I Abnormalflags key: CCritIcal HHigh L Low R Review *Abnormal
I I Interpretation Cudes: (3) susceptible (R) Resistant {MS} Moderately Susceptibie (1') Intermediate
I Status codes: wpr‘elimmary P~Fmai c-Cormctea I-In progress/incomplete x-Canceued

I
I I Dates and times dismayed below me coﬁectfm dates; tosee the observation date and time for a resutt, hok: yourcourse over the coﬁectn" n
» time. Times are an a 24-hour clock. I
i I An asterisk {*1 in the Note comm 1 m- n’ext to a panel name indicates a note ls present. To view it, rest your mouse cursor on the [*I.
Panel. ,. . . .A°§¢S§I°ﬂ '3 7. . qulected Yams... Uniﬁ . Rana? Note
Surgical having! FimlRapoxt * F
Collection d/t: " ‘ _ “

Obs an:
Ordered by:

5mm pamm new
HID—c:- :5
gér'mmmr;w’\ibs gab/[3 .. .
5427b“: @DUMQ)N55 OGJZﬂ Inigim WWW;

A. Snminomat classic type, 2.4cm, with involvement of rate tastis, see

‘ \ :5. 60/144 note. Lymphovascuiar invasion i3 present. No invasicn into tunica vaginalis
\- ~ \J L
x r

er apidydimis ia seen.

8, IncratuhuEEr germ eel: neoplasia.

C. Sparmatic care margin free of tumor.

D. Focal Beydiq cell hyperplasia.

El 1,6 cm benign apididymal cyst,

The case material was zeviewed and the rapczt verified by:
{Electronic signaturs}

Veriﬁicution Date:

Note

Selected slides reviewed at

Pathoiogisris}

Gross Description
The case is raceivad in one ¢antaxuerr labeled witn the patient's name an&

medical recozé number.

Syecimen 3 is raceived frésh designated “:Lght tasticle’ and conaists of a

orchiectcmy specimen measuring overall 14.2 x 5.1 x 2.4 cm, with a

“”2

sgarma:ic cqrd measuring 8.3 cm in length and 1.6 cm in diameter. ané a
testis measuring 5.2 cm x 4,3 x 2.4 cm. The SDéCimen wéighs $0.: 9; rhe
surfaca of tha tasticle is smooth and :ntact. Th0 extetna; surface or the
3pac1men is inked black. The spermatic cord margin is shaved and submittad
in 1A. Testis in bisected to reveal a firm, thce~tan mass that measurea
2M4 x 2.0 x 1.9 cm. The mass does use grossly involve the epididymis or
the rate testis. Thera is also a cystic structure which measures 1.5 cm in
greatest dimension which is Located at the infaricr aspect of the testis.
Tbs cyst wall lining is smooth and the cyst is Exiled with clear fluid(

The Spermatic cord is sectioned and AS qraasly unremarkable. Raptesentative

secticn are submittedas (allows:

is is a section of the m;dpsrcion of the spernmtic card.

15 is a section cf the base of the right hard.

?he tumaz 18 submitted in toss in secticns 1E through lL‘

Representative atctiuns of grossly uninvolved testis and the cystic iesion

axe submitted in 1H and 13.

SUMMARY OF SECTIONS: 1Q, aha. :epresentative

Dictaaed by:

Clinical informatian

-yea:~o;d male with right testicular mass
Premaperatlve Diagnosis; No: sgacéfied
?ost-Operative Diagnasis; Not specifxed
Operation: Orchiectomy, rigntI inguinal approach

Specific quesciuns to be answered: X0 quextions.

Specimen:

1. fascia. Tumor, Right

‘** End of separt "

)fl

 

 

