 

 

 

 

Sex:
0.0.3.: ,-_ -

   

uum31347er-caA1-rsar-544smeanness»
TCGA-GC—ABWC-DlA-PR Redﬁrlclllted

Ill||lllIIHllIllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllll|||||||||||

ll | |||| IIHIH l|||||||||
llll I‘IHIPIWillllwlllllmlllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

III II
’ SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DlAG NQSIS

 

 
   

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A Right ureter. excision:
Complete cross section of benign ureter. no tumor identiﬁed.
lntraoperative consultation corroborated.

 
 
 

riteria

  

Tumor Site

  

IPAA
nor

 
  

8. Lelt ureter: excision:
Complete cross section of benign ureter. no tumor identiﬁed.
lntraoperative consultation corroborated.

  

C. Bladder. pelvic lymph nodes; cysteotomw
Tumor Characteristice:
. Histologic typo: Urothelial mrcinoma.
. Histologic grade: Poorly-differentiated.
Tumor size: 5.3 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm.
Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades completely through the muscularis propria into the surrounding adipm tissue.
. Lymphovasouiarspaoe invasion: Present.
Surgical Margins:
1. Surgical margins including lelt and right ureter, urethra. and deep soil tissue are negative for tumor.
Lymph Node Statue:
. Total number of lymph nodes examined: 2
2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0 (012).
Other:
. Focal urotlrelial dysplasia present
2. pTNM stage: pTS, N0.

mauve

.5

d

Vs...‘

Electronic Signature:

 

, CLINIGAEINFORMATIONéi'; - "

   

CLlNClAL r-rrsroav:

Preoperative Diagnosis: None given l C D ”0 " 3

monogram“... commomarwv~m<ii~alol<r>S

specrrrerrs: & ‘90) 3

a: ritizzrmlrezerr" Sire: mecca. ~05

0. Bladder and pelvic lymph nodes C (07 r q 5 , I ' i L a
D

   
 
 

 
  
 

' GROSS oescnrnrron:
The specimen is received in three containers labeled with the patients name‘

 

Container A is additionally labeled "right ureter“ and contains a 0.4 cm in length by 0.4 cm diameter cylindrical portion of pink—tan soft tissue consistent
with ureter. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section. The residual wrapped in tissue paper and entirely resubmitted for permanent section
in cassette A labeled ‘

Container B is additionally labeled "left ureter, clip on distal end“ and contains a 0.4 cm in length by 0.4 cm diameter, pink-tan cylindrical soft tissue with
adherent ﬁbroadipose tissue. A dip is present at one end and denotes distal. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section with the residual
wrapped in tissue paper and entirely resubmitted for permanent section in cassette 8 labeled A

 

 

”l

 

 

Container C is additionally labeled "Bladder and pelvic lymph nodes“ and contains a cystectorny specimen having overall dimensions of 10.0 x 7,0 x 45
cm. The specimen is comprised of bladder (60 x 6.0 x 4.0 cm), right ureter (4.5 cm in length by 0.3 cm in diameter), leit ureter (5.5 cm in length by 0.3
cm), associated pericystic fat, and portion of vaginal mucosa (6.0 x 3'0 om). The vaginal mucosa is purple-pink, glistening and erythematous with no
discrete lesions. The urethral margin is inked. amputated and radially sectioned to reveal a 5.3 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm, pink-tan. fungating, friable and ulcerated
mass involving the right lateral wall. This mass approaches to within 4.0 om of the urethral margin and to within 0.6 cm of the right ureteral oriﬁce.
Additionally, this mass resides 2.5 cm from the left ureterel oriﬁce. On section, this mass invades 1.8 am through the detrusor muscle and approaching
to within 0.2 cm of the inked deep margin. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan and glistening with no additional lesions. On section and palpation,
no lymph nodes are identiﬁed within the perivesicular fat

Also received in the same container is a 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of yellowed ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. On palpation. two ﬁrm fattv possible lymph
nodes are identiﬁed, 1.0 and 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 61-14 labeled ' designated
as follows: (31-2 urethral margin. perpendicular; C3 mass to inked deep margin and right ureteral oriﬁce; 4-8 mass to inked deep margin: I mass to
normal appearing mucosa: 8 trigone to include vaginal mucosa; 9 posterior bladder wall; 10 bladder dome; 11 anterior bladder wall; 12 lett ureterel

oriﬁce; 13 one whole possible lymph node: 14 one whole possible bisected lymph node. Additionally. a yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted
for oennmics research. each labeled

m . nn-UPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: FSA: Negative per
eaults were communicated to dllei‘ mummmg patient identity.

FROZEN SECTION DiAGNOSlS: FSB: Negative per Dr. .

 

A/‘F"-V\ I r

 

