 

 

 

,_, uggégf'aff‘3ma'iwL;./“-,:':a;”i;,»' , 2: ". 2;. es » .» -,« » ~ ﬂ 0. 4. ' '

 

 

 

“Lb . 0 ’ 5 1 g
. , Mme/lame, MW max, m;
31%;: pmwmm c544 ago/9 941/”
UUID:96082606-FEM-4899-86F4-6010EA6COFIF ( ,w
TCGA-AS-AeVP-BlA-PR Recljlaﬂiited

 

I“llllllllllillllllilliiil”HlllillllillillllmHillllHl
IHllllllllllilllllllllllllilllilllllilHiiiliilHHllillilil
Illllllfl"HIfillillilllllllllliilillllllHlllHHillilllill"

Primary Tumor Site Disa'epancy
HEP/AA Discrepancy
Prior

Case
Review er

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:

A. UTERUS, CERVIX, AND BILATERAL ADNEXA, TOTAL HYSTERECTOMY AND

BlLATERAL SALPlNGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- High grade endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, FlGO gradeJll. with

focal undifferentiated component < o
— Pathologic stage: pT1a N0
- Right fallopian tube with a tiny focus of intraepithelial carcinoma

~ See synoptic report

8. OMENTUM # 1, EXClSlON:
- No evidence of carcinoma

C. OMENTUM # 2, EXClSlON:
- No evidence of carcinoma

D. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVlC, EXClSlON:
- Ten lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/10)

E. LYMPH NODES. LEFT COMMON lLlAC, EXCISION:
» Two lymph nodes. negative for carcinoma (0/2)

F. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVlC. EXClSlON:
- Four lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/4)

G. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT COMMON lLlAC, EXClSlON:
- Two lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/2)

 

Consultation: Dr.

SYNOPTlC REPORT:

Applies To:

A : CERVlX/UTERUS/LT 8. RT TUBES AND OVARlES
B : OMENTUM 1

: OMENTUM 2

: LT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

: LT COMMON lLIAC

: RT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

: RT COMMON lLlAC LYMPH NODES

(371/7100

 

Uterus

Sunset

Specimen Type:

‘ wrk~m
Patienl Case(s):

 

Copy For :\ _ c
Page 1 0/5

 

Other Organs Present:
Procedure:

Specimen integrity:
Lymph Node Sampling:

Microscopic

_ Right ovary

Left ovary

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube

Omentum

None

Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy

intact hysterectomy specimen

Pelvic lymph nodes

Common iiiac lymph nodes

 

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:
Myometriai invasion:

involvement of Cervix:
Extent of involvement
of Other Organs:
Margins:

Lymphovascular Invasion:

Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, not otherwise
characterized

FiGO grade lll

Corpus

Fundus

Lower uterine segment

Dimensions: 4 x 3.8 x 1,3cm

invasion present

Less than 50% myometrial invasion

Comment(s): Minimal superﬁcial invasion. less than 1
mm

No involvement

None
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Not identiﬁed

Patholog/c Staging (p TNMIFIGOI) AJCC 7th Edition 2010

 

 

ﬁmary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Number of pelvic lymph
nodes examined:
Number of pelvic lymph
nodes involved:

Number of common lilac

lymph nodes examined:

Number of common iiiac

lymph nodes involved:

pT1 a [lA]: Tumor limited to endometrium or invades less
than one-half of the myometrium

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

14

0

4

0

Additional Pathologicﬂndings

 

Focal intraepitheliai carcinoma, right fallopian tube
Xanthogranulomatous saipingitis. right fallopian tube

Uterine leiomyoma

Adenomyosis, focal, involving less than 50% of the myometrial thickness
Both ovaries with surface epithelial inclusion cysts
Left fallopian tube with no histooathologic abnormality

 

 

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Page 2 ol 5

 

HISTORY: ' . . , .i ‘_ ,‘
Endometrial thickening, prior endometrial curettage showed scanty fragments of inactive/atrophic

endometrium

MICR’OSCOPIC'FINDINGS:
See diagnosis.

{SPEC-iAlLFSIUDlES:
Decalciﬁcation (A7)

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:

 

 

 

 

 

.. Study IAntibody ' ' Result
Ki-67 QL Highlights the focus of intraepithelial carcinoma in the
fallopian tube
P53 QL 5 A9 Highlights the lows of intraepithelial carcinoma in the
_} fallopian tube
FAX-8 A4 Endomelriai carcinoma with few cells positive
PAX-8 A9 . intraepithelial carcinoma in the fallopian tube positive

 

 

 

GROSS:

A. CERVlX/UTERUS/LEFT AND RIGHT TUBES AND OVARIES

Labeled with the patients name, labeled "cervix/uterus/ieft and right tubes and ovaries" and received
fresh in the operating room for frozen section consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is an intact
62.5 gm total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The uterus is about 4.5 x 4.3
x 3.5 cm. The cervix is 3.5 cm in length and has a width of 3,1 cm. The endometrial cavity is 3.8 cm in
length and has a maximum width of 2.2 cm. The left ﬁmbriated fallopian tube is 6.5 cm in length and has
a maximal width of 0.6 cm. The left ovary is 2.7 x 1.1 x 1.0 cm. The right ﬁmbriated fallopian tube is 6.5
cm in length and has a maximum width of 0.5 cm. The right ovary is 2.9 x 1.3 x 1.3 cm. The uterine wall
thickness ranges in size from 0.7 cm to 1.3 cm. A small amount of parametrial tissue is present
bilaterally. The left parametrial tissue is purple-tan, smooth and glistening and is 0.6 x 0.5 cm.

VWthin the posterior endometrial cavity in the corpus and fundus. there is a soft, irregular, polypoid white-
tan mass that is 4.0 x 3.8 x 1.3 cm. The lesion grossly involves the lower uterine segment. The cut
surface of the lesion shows no myometrial invasion. The cut surface of the mass is white—tan.
homogeneous with no areas of hemorrhage or necrosis grossly identiﬁed. The uterine serosa is grossly
free of tumor.

Within the intramural portion of the anterior uterine corpus there is an intramural. white-tan, semi-ﬁrm,
well-circumscribed ieiomyoma. The leiomyoma is 2.7 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm. The cut surface of the leiomyoma
shows focal areas of yellow—tan calciﬁed areas. The remaining cut surface is white-tan, semi-ﬁrm, and
whorled pattern with no areas of hemorrhage or necrosis grossly identiﬁed. Within the right fallopian tube
there is a paratubai cyst within the mid third of the fallopian tube that measures 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The serosai
surface of the cyst is white-tan. semi-translucent, and smooth and glistening. Sectioning through the cyst
reveals semitranslucent, straw~coiored cyst fluid. The lining of the cyst wall is tan, smooth and glistening
with no masses or lesions seen grossly protruding from'the cyst lining into the lumen of the cyst. Within
the left ovary is a single corpora albicans which measures 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. The right ovary
shows multiple white-tan. ﬁrm corpora albicans that range in size from 0.1 to 0.2 cm in greatest
dimension.

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

No other masses or lesions are grossly identified. Representative sections are submitted.

ink key:
Black - anterior and posterior serosal surface of uterine corpus and fundus

Slide key:

A1. Anterior cervix - 1

A2. Posterior cervix -1

A3. Full thickness section of the mass - 1

A4. Mass to posterior lower uterine segment - 1

A5. Tumor to posterior lower uterine segment - 1

A6. Anterior uterine corpus and ieiomyoma. full thickness section with serosa - 1
A7. Endometrial mucosa, anterior uterine corpus, underlying leiomyoma with full thickness cross section
to serosal surface - 1

A8. Proximal, mid, distal ﬁmbriated left fallopian tube; left ovary - 5

A9. Proximal, mid, distal ﬁmbriated right fallopian tube, right ovary — 5

A10-A12. Additional sections of tumor, full thickness - 1 each

A13. Frozen section remnant — 1

A14—A16. Parametrium — 2

A17. Additional right fallopian tube — 4

A18,A19. Right fallopian tube — multiple

A20,A21. Left Fallopian tube —- multiple

A22,A23. Additional tumor — 1 each

B. OMENTUM #1

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #1" and received in formalin is an irregular portion of
yellow-tan, smooth and glistening, soft ﬁbroadipose tissue that is 7 x 4.5 x 0.9 cm. Sectioning through the
tissue does not reveal any masses or lesions grossly. Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:
Bi . Multiple

C. OMENTUM #2

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #2" and received in formalin are multiple irregular
fragments of yellow—tan, soft, smooth and glistening ﬁbroadipose tissue that measure in aggregate 7.0 x
4.9 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the fat does not reveal any masses or lesions grossly. No lymph nodes
are grossly identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:
C1 . Multiple

D. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node" and received in formalin are multiple
fragments of yellow-tan, smooth and glistening, soft to semi-ﬁrm ﬁbroadipose tissue with marked
distortion and marked brown-tan cautery artifact. The specimen measures in aggregate 4.5 x 3.3 x 0.7
cm. individual fragments range in size from 0.3 to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning through the
tissue reveals multiple fragments of white-tan. semi-ﬁrm lymph nodes. The cut surfaces show a white-
tan, homogeneous, semLﬁrm and ﬂeshy parenchyma with no lesions or masses grossly identiﬁed. No
other lesions or masses-are grossly identiﬁed. All suspected lymphoid tissue is submitted.

Slide key:
D1-D4. Lymph nodes » 2, 3, 3, 2

E. LEFT COMMON lLlAC

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 4 ol 5

 

 

 

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "left common iiiac" and received in formalin is a single elliptical
portion of yellow-tan, semi-ﬁrm tissue that is 1.3 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. Within the tissue there is one lymph node
identiﬁed that is 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The cut surfaces of the lymph node are white—tan, semi-firm,
homogenous and fleshy with no focal masses or lesions grossly identiﬁed. The lymph node is bisected
and entirely submitted.

Slide key:
E1. 2

F. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and received in formalin are multiple
irregular fragments of tan, smooth and glistening soft tissue that measure in aggregate 4.0 x 3.5 x 0.9 cm.
Within the tissue approximately two lymph nodes are identiﬁed, which measure 2.1 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm and 2.3
x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. The cut surfaces of the lymph nodes show white-tan, semi-firm, homogeneous and fleshy
parenchyma with no focal masses or lesions grossly identified. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Slide key:
F1, F2. Lymph nodes - 2, 1

G. RIGHT COMMON lLlAC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right common iliac lymph node" and received in formalin are
multiple fragments of yellow-tan. semi-ﬁrm tissue fragments and two fragments of red~tan, soft and friable
blood clot that measure in aggregate 3.0 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm. Within the tissue, two lymph nodes are grossly
identiﬁed. The cut surfaces of the lymph nodes are ten, homogeneous, fleshy. and smooth and glistening
with no masses or lesions grossly identiﬁed. Entirely submitted.

Slide key:
G1. Lymph nodes - 2
G2. Soft tissue - multiple

Gross dictated by _
INTRAGBERAWVECONSULTATION:
OPERATIVE CALL

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

FSA.
- Adenocarcinoma, endometrium

l have personally examined the specimen. interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
Electronically signed

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

”(his report indudes immunolﬁsfochem/ca/ tee] mwlrc nlnaen mm m.‘ InllA......._. 1:. _..__.._ .~__ _..__. - .. «warn; facts were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by Those
immunohistochemical tests have not been uualad or approved by the U. 3. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and FDA approval is not required

Page 5 01 5

 

