 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

PROSTATE, RADICAL PROSTATECTOMY:
- PROSTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA, GLEASON GRADE 3+4=7.
- Tumor is 1.70m in greatest dimension on slide.
- Tumor involves both left and right lobes of prostate, posteriolaterally.
- 20% of sampled tissue involved by tumor.
- No extraprostatic extension is identiﬁed.
- Seminal vesicles not involved by tumor.

- MARGINS: NEGATIVE.
- Closest margin: Radial, at 0.2 cm from tumor.

- Proximal and distal urethral margins are negative for tumor.
- Vas deferentia margins negative for tumor.

- LYMPH NODES: NOT IDENTIFIED.
- HIGH-GRADE PROSTATIC INTRAEPITHELIAL NEOPLASIA.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING DESCRIPTORS:
Type and grade: Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason grade 3+4=7.

Primary tumor: pTZC.
Regional lymph nodes: pNX.

Distant metastasis: pMX.
Margin status: R0.

Pathologic stage: IIB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Prostate Tumor Staging Information
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging

Handbook-nd CAP protocol

  

 

 

 

 

Procedure:
Specimen type:
Prostate sizeiweight:

Tumor Features:

Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Tumor quantiﬁcation:
Histologic type:

Histologic grade (Gleason pattern):

Primary pattern:
Secondary pattern:
Tertiary pattern:

Total Gleason score:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Extraprostatic extension:
Seminal vesicle invasion:
Treatment effect:

Lymph Nodes:

Margin Evaluation:
Distance to closest margin:

Other margins:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:
Primary tumor (pT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Margin status (R):
Pathologic stage:

Additional ﬁndings:

Comment:

Radical prostatectomy.
Prostate.

2.5 x 4.8 x 3.9 cm. 59 9.

Left and right lobes of prostate.
1.7 cm in greatest slide dimension.

20% of sampled tissue.
Prostatic adenocarcinoma.

3.

4.

N/A.

7.

Not identiﬁed.
Not identiﬁed.
Not identiﬁed.
Not identiﬁed.
Not identiﬁed.

None identiﬁed.

0.2 cm (radial margin).

Proximal and distal urethral margins negative for
tumor; vas deferentia margins negative for
tumor.

2c.
pNX.
pMX.
R0.
IIB.

High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.

N/A.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Source of Specimen:
Prostatectomy

Clinical HistoglOperative Dx:
Prostate cancer

Gross Description:
Single specimen designated prostate. Initially received in a fresh state for—, is a 59

gram radical prostatectomy, 2.5 cm apex to base, 4.3 cm across and 3.9 cm posterior-anterior. The right
and left vas deferens are 3.3 x 0.4 cm and 3.0 x 0.4 cm each, respectively. The right and left seminal
vesicles are 4.3 x 2.0 cm and 3.6 x 2.0 cm each, respectively. Initial sections through the seminal vesicles
demonstrates a rubbery light pink and tan honeycomb cut surface without gross tumor involvement. Radial
margin of prostate demonstrates slightly shaggy, deep red-tan appearance, now differentially inked as
follows: the right anterior-lateral is marked blue, the left anterior-lateral marked orange, and the posterior
surface marked black. The specimen is serially sectioned apex to base to reveal a poorly demarcated to
pink-gray lesion in the right posterior aspect of the prostate, within 1.0 cm of the apex, suspicious for
malignancy. Representative portion of this lesion is submitted for—as well as
representation of the left seminal vesicles. This lesion measures 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm an grossly
approaches to 0.4 cm of the right posterior prostatic margin (A10-A11). Additional yellow-orange indurated
changes are bilaterally present, within 0.3 cm of the apex, with the left anterior-lateral aspect suspicious

for malignancy (A14-A15). Representative sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation in a
sequential fashion apex toward base.

  
 

Cassette summary: A1) right vas deferens margins. seminal vesicles represented. A2) left vas deferens
margin, seminal vesicles represented, A3—A4) right and left apex sectioned and submitted, respectively,
A5-A8) right and left base sectioned and submitted, respectively, A7-A9) right body of prostate,
anterior-lateral, apex toward base, A10-A13) right body of prostate, posterior-lateral, apex toward base,
origin of seminal vesicles demonstrated in A13, A14-A16) left body of prostate, anterior-lateral apex

toward base. A17—A20) left body of prostate, posterior-lateral apex toward base, origin of seminal vesicles
demonstrated in A20.-

 

Microscopic Description:
Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis

rendered.

 

 

