UUID : 683132“~FCAS~4D03-A018-45036312FFD4
TCGA-FD-ABBS-DlA-PR R

Pathoiogy Report:

edacted
||||||ll||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll||||||||||||llI||l|l||||||||l||
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll

Surgicai Pathoiogy Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A.

invasive into the outer ha1f of the muscuiaris propria.

the urinary biadder,

ureter),

— Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithe1ia1 neopiasia (PIN).
- Seminai veSicies and vasa deferentia, no tumor present.
E.

F.

Urotheiia] Carcinoma Pathoiogic Parameters
1.

2.
3.
4.
posterior and anterior wa11)

Invasive soiitary urotheiiai carcinoma in the right posterior and iaterai waii,
measures 6.0 cm

Right pe1vic 1ymph nodes; dissection:

- Metastatic urotheiiai carcinoma with squamous differentiation in one of
six 1ymph nodes (1/6).

— The tumor focus measure 0.4 cm.

— No extranodai extension present.

Right distai ureter; excision:

- Segment of ureter, no tumor present.

Left pe1vic lymph nodes; dissection:

— Five iymph nodes, no tumor present (0/5).

Biadder, prostate, semina] vesicies, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:
— Urotheiiai carcinoma of the urinary biadder, high grade,

with extensive squamous differentiation and keratin production,

- Muitifoca] urotheiiai carcinoma in situ (fiat urotheiiai carcinoma) of

invoiving surface urotheiium and cystitis cystica. _
— Margins of resection (soft tissue, prostatic urethra, right and 1eft

:dobo

“477“79 ¢ifﬂf syayy

no tumor ﬁresent.
- See pat 01091C parameters and comment.

Left dista] ureter; excision:
— Segment of ureter, no tumor present.
Right distai ureter; excision:
- Segment of ureter, no tumor present.

I
I

JMVV‘nwr7w19

Tumor type: Urotheiiai carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation

Grade of tumor; High grade _ _
Depth of invaSion: Muscuiaris propria, outer haif _
Tumor distribution: Muitifocai urotheiiai carCinoma in Situ (trigone,

4] 1‘!) ? fﬁ/V "W

h m a ”WW—I’Vd

5. Ureterai margins: Negative

6. Dista] urethra] margin: Negative

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative _ .

8. Lymph nodes: Metastatic urothe11a1 carCinoma With squamous differentiation \E:

in one of eieven 1ymph nodes (1/11) \

9. pTNM: pTZleMx s;
i}

Effective this Checkiist utiiizes the 7th edition TNM sta ing

system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and t e
Internationai Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Page 1

I

 

vuunhova
{~0“97/

s/awx m4! kw”?

Comment

The sections show multifocal urothelial carcinoma in situ (slides labeled 022,
025, 026 and 030). Although the entire portion of invasive carcinoma shows
extensive squamous differentiation with keratin production, the presence of
urothelial carcinoma in situ, by consent, defines this tumor as urothelial
carcinoma with squamous differentiation.

xxx

E]. M-D

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], M.0.

Electronically Signed Out by E], M.0

Clinical History: _ _
The patient is an year-old male With a malignant neoplasm of bladder
underQOing a cystectomy.

Specimens Received:

: Right pelvic lymph nodes

Right distal ureter

Le t pelvic lymph node

Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens
Left distal ureter

Right distal ureter

'IirIiUnmID

Gross Description: _ _ _ _ _ .
The speCimens are received in Six containers each labeled With the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The first container is additionally identified as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rubbery
yellow-tan tissue measuring 6.0 x 3.2 x 1.3 cm, which is dissected for lymph
node candidates. Six rubbery tan-yellow lymph node candidates are identified
gag ing in size from 0.3—4.8 cm. Representative sections are submitted as

o ows:

A1: 3 lymph node candidates

A2: One lymph node candidate

A3: One lymph node candidate, trisected

A4—A6: One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter".
Received fresh and glaced in formalin is an unoriented 0.9 cm in length by 0.4
cm in diameter tubu ar segment of tan-pink tissue which is bisected and
submitted entirely as Bl (opposite ends placed en face in cassette).

C. The third container is additionally identified as, "left pelvic lgmph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rub ery
yellow-tan tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm, which is dissected for lymph
node candidates. Five rUbbery tan—yellow lymph node candidates are identified
gag ing in size from 0.3—2.7 cm. Representative sections are submitted as

o ows:

C1: One lymph node candidate
C2: one lymph node candidate, bisected
C3: One lymph node candidate
C4: One lymph node candidate, bisected
CS: One lymph node candidate, bisected

D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "bladder, prostate,
Page 2

seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a
310.5 g, 16.0 x10 x 4.5 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7.0 x 6.5
x 4.0 cm bladder with attached mesenteric fat and a 5.0 x 3.9 x 3.2 cm prostate.
The right seminal vesicles measures 5.0 x 2.0 x 0.9 cm and ri ht vas deferens
measures 12.5 cm in length by 0.2-0.4 cm in diameter. The le t seminal vesicles
measures 4.5 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm and left vas deferens measures 6.5 cm in len th by
0.5 cm in diameter. The right ureteral stumg measures 1.1 cm in length y 0.4
cm in diameter, the left measures 2.0 cm in ength and 0.4 cm in diameter. The
right ureter is not probe patent and the left ureter is probe patent.

The right half of the prostate is inked blue and the left half is inked black.
The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra. The prostate
is surrounded bg a thin, intact shaggy membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates ru bery, pink—tan, peri-urethral nodularity which disrupts the
prostatic urethra mucosa. The right aspect of the prostate exhibits solid
tan-yellow areas intermixed with cystic spaces throughout the entire half from
agex to base. The solid components range in size from 0.6—1.5 cm, and the

c osest is 0.3 cm from the inked outer surface. The left half of the prostate
exhibits s ongy tan tissue, from apex to base, intermixed with small tan-brown
calculi. T e anterior aspect of the prostate, from apex to base, demonstrates
ill—defined areas of smooth glistening tan-white to purple rubbery tissue which
focally abuts the inked outer surface.

The opened bladder reveals a 6.0 x 6.0 x 3.0 cm exophytic, friable tan—red to
brown mass in the right posterior and right lateral wall. On cut section, the
mass has a pale tan cut surface, intermixed with scattered areas of hemorrhage,
which extends through the bladder wall and comes to within 0.2 cm of the black
inked surface. The surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled tan-pink to purple
with wall thicknesses ranging rom 0.7—1.4 cm. The right ureteral orifice is
not identified at the trigone and is not probe patent. The left ureteral orifice
is identified and probes patent.

Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

01: Left ureter margin

02: Right ureter margin

03: Prostatic urethral margin

04: Prostatic apical margin, shaved and gerpendicularly sectioned

05: Next cross section after prostatic apica margin

06-010: Representative sections of right half of prostate submitted
sequentially from apex to base

011—017: Representative sections of left half of prostate submitted
sequentially from apex to base

018: Representative sections of left seminal vesicle and vas deferens
019: Representative sections of right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
020-025: Representative sections of mass (deepest extent in cassette 020)
026: Uninvolved trigone

027: Uninvolved osterior bladder wall

028: Uninvolved eft bladder wall

029: Uninvolved bladder dome

030: Uninvolved anterior bladder wall

E. The fifth container is additionally identified as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.1 cm in length by 0.4 cm in
diameter tubular segment of tan—pink tissue which is surrounded by shaggy
tan—yellow to pink tissue. A suture designates the non-marginal side and the
sgecimen probes patent. The margin side is amputated and submitted an face as
E .

F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "ri ht distal ureter".

Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 2.1 cm in lengtﬁ by 0.5 cm in

diameter tubular segment tan—pink tissue with a small amount of attached

tan—yellow tissue. A suture designates the non—marginal side and probes patent.
Page 3

