I? '3 I

WID:3839359A-1DDA-4F-C9 AF63- 73F3092RE0354a
TCGA- RZ- ABOB- 91A- PR

H||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIu III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIed
“ III

 

 

II IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII |H||| IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

I PATHOLOGY ACC. no. . _
NAME. . , AGE DATEHECEIVED .“

' I

PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

SURGEON .. .. _ I A_ I - I . MED. nsc. ER# :-

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

#1 Right Globe, #2 Golf Nerve

Hx: year old Cauces n female with history of blurry vision and found to have

Choroidal Melanoma of he right eye. M 1,1634: :3 (Q uﬂdg
Wm IQLB!’ L I CAM

PREOPERATIVE DIAGhitIlSIS: WWI-1 W

<8'77D

. Choroidai Melanoma RI ht Eye @411: War?” hwwcsradwgﬁ—ﬁ

PROCEDURE. Enucle :I ion Right Eye ()4 D
5/

Specimen labeled #1 “l' ight Globe" consists of a globe and attached optic nerve segment
measuring 10 mm in lei qth. The dimensions of the globe are 24 mm anterior posterior,
ﬂly 22 mm horizontal and 2 mm vertical The cornea is clear and measures 13 x 12 mm.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

 

   
 

The his is blue and the upil‘ Is 9 mm in diameter. An 8mm trephine defect' In the sclera is noted
from tissue harvesting. here is no gross evidence of extrascleral or optic nerve invasion.
Transillumination disclo e a discrete shadow at the edge of the trephine hole. The globe was
sectioned along the me dish of the shadow. Examination of the intraocular content with a
dissecting microscope isclose a mostly ameianotic mass arising from the ciliary body and
choroid The anterior a: pest of the mass abuts and molds the lens which is cataractous The
lens Iris diaphragm is €l teriorly displaced by the mass and the angle' Is shallow' In the

. periphery. The mass e It ends posterior to the equator, shallow slightly turbid subretinal fluid
is present in one area. here Is no gross evidence of the extrascleral extension. The largest
Iumor diameter is 15 m The thickness Is 8 mm A _ segment of the globe is submitted as

a

Specimen labeled #2 ' pllc Nerve“ consists of a tan piece of tissue measuring 5 x 4 x 4 mm.
‘ One edge of the optic ’1 We is slightly crushed and likely represents the surgical margin. This

margin is marked with . blue marking pen and the specimen is submitted in its entirely for
routine sections.

m, NAME:* ,g PAGE: 2.91.2.

PATH. ACC. Nag”
MICROSCOPIC oescn PTION:

 

 
 
  

The cornea is unremark ' is. On one side of the anterior chamber the angle is open. On the
opposite side the iris roo has been displaced centrally by a large cllloghoroid'al melanoma. The
tumor measures 15 mm in basal diameter and is 7.5 mm in greatest thickness. it is largely
confined by Bruch’s men brane. A few small microscopic foci of tumor are seen anterior to the
plane of Bruch's membr me, however. largely ameiegotic. The tumor is composed of a mixture
of spindled epithelloid o: is and a signiﬁcant component of cellslwith nuclear characteristics
intermediate between-so ndle B and epithelioid. Sixteen mitotlc_iigures are counted in 40 high
power fields. Vascular m miory patterns are present in some areas of the tumor. Minor fool of
necrosis with hemosider‘n depoéits are seen. Relatively few melanophages infiltrate the
substance of the tumor. umor dgﬂesjnﬁitrate the trabecular meshworkand canal of Schiemm.‘

-. We see no evidence of xtraso'le’ré’ﬁexteneion in available sections, however. At its apex the
retinal pigment epithelia has undergone atrophy. Portions of the ciliary epithelium and atrophic
peripheral retina are de'l ched. A focus of densely proteinaceous serous fluid detaches the
retina near the posterior" spect of the tumor. Other portions of the retina are detached
artifactuelly. An addition l positive fluid is seen beneath the retina on the opposite side of the
globe. The neurosensoryi retina has been distorted during processing but does show significant
areas of corticaidegeneiation. The optic nerve appears unremarkable.

‘f-
" DIAGNOSIS:

Right globe showing:

#1 Ciiioohoroiéiai malignant melanoma. mixed, cell type with invasion of peripheral anterior
chamber and trabecu ar meehwork. ‘ MM" " ' “ ‘ ‘

#2 Partial retinal detachment secondary to #1.
. #3 Cataract.
COMMENT:

TMN classiﬁcation is Tab, NX. M0.

 

 

