- path report

Microscopic

1. Permanent section of the frozen section specimen demonstrates only poorly cellular
dense fibrous connective tissue. No neoplasm identified

2, 10, 13. Permanent section of the frozen section specimen demonstrates a mildly
hypercellular glial neoplasm that diffusely infiltrates the parenchyma which is predominantly
white matter. There is edema as well. Atypia is mild to moderate. No mitotic figures are
seen. There is no microvascular proliferation or necrosis. No mitotic figures are identified.
3,7. Permanent section of the frozen section specimen and unfrozen material again
demonstrate a modestly hypercellular glial neoplasm that is more diffusely infiltrative than
cellular. The features are otherwise as described in specimen 2. No mitotic figures are
identified.
4, 8 Permanent section of the frozen section specimen and unfrozen material demonstrate a
mildly hypercellular, apparently low grade glioma that diffusely infiltrates the gray and white
matter. The features are as previously described, but this specimen is more cellular than
either specimen 2 or 3. No mitotic figures are identified.
5, 9. permanent section of the frozen section specimen and unfrozen material confirm the
presence of a cellular and infiltrating apparently low grade glioma. In addition, a nodular
area with numerous foci of dystrophic calcifications are seen. No mitotic figures are
identified.
6. Sections demonstrate variably thickened and poorly cellular dense irregular fibrous
connective tissue. The tissue demonstrates multifocal reactive changes including edema,
macrophage infiltrates, chronic inflammation and microcalcificatins. Focally, the fibrous
tissue is adherent to gliotic brain parenchyma which also demonstrates old hemorrhage. No
neoplasm is seen. No mitotic figures are identified.
11. Permanent section of the frozen section specimen demonstrates a modestly
hypercellular glial neoplasm that diffusely infiltrates the white matter. Although qualifying as
cellular tumor, this specimen as cellular tumor, this specimen is less cellular than any of the
previous specimens.
12. Permanent section of the frozen section specimen demonstrates a modestly
hypercellular glial neoplasm that diffusely infiltrates gray and white matter. A large band of
dystrophic calcification is also seen. The specimen is less cellular than most of the previous
biopsies, but more than specimen 11.

Addendum discussion:

MlB-1 reactivity varies greatly within the tumor. In the less cellular areas only a few MlB-1
reactive cells are present with a labeling index of <1% to about 3%. However, in some of the
moderately cellular areas there are patchy areas of high MlB-1 reactivity. In these areas the
labeling of 12.5% 3 calculated. Based on the overall findings, the MlB-1 labeling suggest
anaplastic progression in the background of a low grade glioma.

Final Addendum Diagnosis:

1. poorly cellular fibrous tissue (reactive dura/scar), no neoplasm identified.
2. ,10, 13 anaplastic oligoastrocytoma
3. ,7 cellular and infiltrating glioma

4. ,8 positive for cellular and infiltrating glioma
5. positive for cellular and infiltrating glioma
11. positive for infiltrating glioma

12. positive for infiltrating glioma

