: AFDlSBB-SGIA-4AFO-8156-9352AFE13953
um B a Redacted

llilliiiiiiﬁiliilliiiiiliﬁlililiiiiiiilmlluuuiriml
l lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Iiiiiiiiiiiil'liiiiiiilliliimlumImllllllnllnllllnlnl

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: ” Accession #: _
Med. Rec. #2 Location: Billing Type:

DOB: 7 Service: ‘ Taken:

Gender: F Billing #: _ Received:

Physician(s): Reported:

S ecimen 3 Received
Left adrenal gland tumor

 

Pathologic Diagnosis

Adrenal gland, left, tumor, excision:
— Pheochromocytoma, see note.

Note: The lesion measures 2.7 cm in greatest dimension, and appears to be contained within the
body of the adrenal gland (Evaluation is somewhat limited due to tissue fragmentation). The
tumor is comprised of spindled and epithelicid cells arranged in a classic nested pattern. There is
no nuclear atypia or necrosis present. Mitotic ﬁgures are sparse. (<1MF/50 HPFs), and there is
no evidence of capsular or vascular space invasion. The tumor cells are immunoreactive for
synaptophysin and chromogranin. Pertinent negatives include calretinin. inhibin, and Melan A.
The morphologic and immunohistochemical features are consistent with the above diagnosis. A
proliferation index by Ki—67 (Mib-i), has been ordered and the results will be reported as an
addendum.

Primary Pathologist:
Electronically Signed Out by: '

 

mega
- . we;
Clinical Histogy mat/ﬁfty)? tuna. 5r /

Left adrenal mass. (5‘, 7}"f M 6 [M AIDS
074. 7

Gross Description ) ”/29, L3

Received in formalin labeled "left adrenal gland tumor“ is an adrenal gland with attached adipose tissue.
The adrenal mass is disrupted or has been previously transected. With the adipose tissue trimmed away,
the adrenal gland weighs 10 g and measures 5 x 3 x 2 cm.

The portions of the intact surface of the adrenal gland and mass are inked blue. Sectioning demonstrates
the adrenal gland and mass are soft and friable. The mass is at least 2.7 cm in greatest dimension (the

. true greatestdimensionis difﬁcult to determine.bec.aus.e.the-m.ass isdisrupted or hasbeen previously
transected. The edges of the mass are ill-defined, and portions of the mass appear to be missing,

’ " Page 1 of2

 

a Surgical Pathology Report _

presumed due to the friability. including the edges of the ill-deﬁned, friable area. the mass is possibly 3.1
cm in greatest dimension).

The mass is golden tan-yellow with diffuse areas of hemorrhage. The remainder of the adrenal gland is

golden tan-yellow and grossly unremarkable. There are no additional lesions or suspicious areas
identiﬁed.

Representative sections of the mass are submitted in cassettes 1 through 4. Representative section's of
the normal adrenal gland are submitted in cassette 5.

.y-‘-

Microscggic Description
Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The pathologic diagnosis encompasses the
essential microscopic ﬁndings of this case.

A: 88307. 88342. 88342. 86342. 88342. 58342, 88342

if immunohistochnmistm N in situ h"Midi-when was used the following applies: This test was developed and its performance characteristic
determined by it has not been cleared or approved by the U. 8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
doc-s not require this test to go through premarket FDA review. This test is used for clinical purposes. it should not be regarded as investigational
or :ur research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments (CLIA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing. All special stains used have adequate controls.

 

 

 

 

- Page 2 of 2

