UUID:D564A7FB-4F9A-4589-A832-A6CD83547219
TCGA—A7-A56D-01A—PR Redﬁiﬂted

HI lllHllllllIlllllllllllllll||||l||||l|l|l|ll|||llllllllllll

I III! Illlllllllllllllllll
u!Pd1WM‘Hl'l‘l'u'l'l'h'l'lW.Mm'nummum was

, ,
Final Surgical Pathology Report (ara”DMod, Dﬁ/ﬁd"? Jar}; 1/55
, S ‘7‘ 8550/5
Procedure: I 4: _~ © .
PM» 3% :25 Lite. cat»:
Diagnosis
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph noder resection: I
No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node (O/l) . 66411:
B. Left breast, simple mastectomy: @ 3’¢a§/;A/05
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, grade 3, 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. C355 ,
Surgical margins negative but close, less than 2 mm.
C. Left axillary contents, resection: CE>LJLD
No evidence of metastasis in 7 lymph nodes (0/7) // /24// 2——

Microscopic Description:
Microscopic examination performed.

A. Sections of the sentinel lymph node demonstrate no evidence of
metastatic disease. The node is examined by multiple sectioning with
hematoxylin and eosin and by immunohistochemistry for pankeratin.
B.
Invasive Carcinoma: present

Histologic type: Infiltrating ductal carcinoma

Histologic grade:

Overall grade: 3
Architectural score: 2
Nuclear score: 3

Mitotic score: 3

Greatest dimension (pT): 3.2 cm, pT2
Specimen margins: Negative but close, less than 2 mm over a
distance of 5 mm
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified

Description of non—tumorous breast: Proliferative fibrocystic
changes with intraductal papillomatosis
Comments: None

Prognostic markers: Previously performed

C Sections of the left axillary contents demonstrate no evidence of
metastasis in 7 lymph nodes.

Specimen

A. Left sentinel node—axillary

5. Left breast—tumor at 7 o'clock
C. Axillary contents

Clinical Information
Carcinoma left breast, core biopsy positive here

Intraoperative Consultation
AFS left axillary sentinel lymph node, excision:
No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node

Gross Description

A. Container a is labeled with the patient's name, medical record
number and "sentinel lymph node". The specimen consists of a single
piece of fatty tissue which when bisected holds a single lymph node
measuring 1.0 x 0.0 0.5 cm. Bisected and submitted in block AFS.

B. Received fresh labeled "left breast" is a 25.5 cm (medial to
lateral) by 17.0 cm (superior to inferior) by 4.5 cm (anterior to
posterior) soft, lobulated tan-white~gold portion of fibroadipose
tissue oriented per placement of designated tumor as stated previously.
A 19.3 x 8.5 cm wrinkled tan skin ellipse with an eccentric, 1.0 x 1.0
x 0.5 cm nipple is present along the anterior aspect. A palpable mass
is evident at 7 o'clock, corresponding to the lower inner quadrant.
The antero—inferior surface of the specimen in the vicinity of the mass
is inked blue. The intact deep margin is inked black and the specimen
is sectioned. There is a well—circumscribed, 3.2 cm (medial to
lateral) by 2.4 cm (anterior to posterior) by 2.0 cm (superior to
inferior) rubbery tan~white tumor mass within the lower outer quadrant.
On sectioning the tumor appears to extend to within 0.2 cm of the
inked anteroinferior surface and 1.5 cm of the inked deep margin. A
portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted for
tissue procurement as requested. The cut surfaces throughout the
remainder of the specimen consist predominantly of soft, lobulated tan
gold adipose tissue with a minimal amount of interspersed dense
tan—white fibrous tissue. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is
identified.
Summary: 1 - tumor to inked deep margin, 2 through 4 — tumor to inked
anteroinferior margin, 5 and 6 - tumor to adjacent parenchyma, 7 v
random upper outer quadrant, 8 — upper inner quadrant, 9 — lower inner
quadrant, 10 — lower outer quadrant, ll - junction of the 4 quadrants,
12 — nipple

C. Received fresh labeled “Axillary contents" is a 9.3 x 7.8 x 1.7 cm
portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. A few slightly
rubbery pale tan to tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring up to 3.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered. The
lymphoid tissues are entirely submitted. RS 4

Summary: 1 — 2 lymph nodes, 2 — l bisected lymph node, 3 and 4 —
bisected largest lymph node

 

