 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN (s) RECEIVED
1. Pleura: PLEURAL DISEASE ~ APICAL SEGMENT RIGHT LOWER LOBE
2. Lymph node :Interlobar STll
3. Lung :Both bronchial Margin Rt Upper Lobe. Single suture on tracheal
margin, Double suture on Bronchial Margin
4. Lymph node : Rt low Paratracheal ST4R
Lymph node : Rt TB angle STloR
v. Lymph node :Interlobar ST11
7. Lymph node : Subcarinal ST?

DIAGNOSIS ‘ - -
1. Apical segment right lower lobe wedge biopsy:
« Subpleural fibrosis and chronic inflammation, negative for malignancy.

2. Interlobar STll:
- Negative for tumor, lymph node.

3. Right upper lobe lung lobectomy with sleeve resection:

- Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, central, 4.7 cm in
greatest diameter. (pTz)

— Periutumoral chronic interstitial pneumonia and mucous plugging,
consistent with obstructive pneumonitis.

_ Tumor extensively infiltrates the peribronchial lymph nodes. (See
comment)

r Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor.

— Tracheal resection margin negative for tumor.

— Remaining lung parenchyma shows moderate to marked centroacinar
emphysematous changes.

4. Right low paratracheal ST4R:
_ Positive for metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. {pN2)

. Right TB angle STlOR:
- Positive for metastatic quamous cell carcinoma.

Status: complete Page: 1 of

  

CGA-18—3411

 

 

 

 

6. Interlobar STll:
~ Positive for metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of 3 lymph nodes.

7. Subcarinal 3T7:
— Negative for tumor.

COMMENT

The'peribronchial tissue circumference was painted with Indian ink, and

i e bronchus was serially cross—sectioned. One of the Sections shows
lymph node infiltrated by tumor, which also extends to the painted radial

margin of this lymph node. The significance of this finding should be
interpreted in the context of surgical procedure performed.

 

CLINICAL HISTORY
LUNG CANCER

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘ s name and as "apical
segment right lower lobe", contains fragments of tan hemorrhagic tissue
measuring 3.0 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm received fresh. This is examined at
intraoperative consultation by ﬁrozen section performed on part of the
specimen. on sectioning there is a white circular lesion in the center
measuring 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:

1A a frozen section representative section resubmitted

lBalC — remainder of the Specimen submitted in toto.

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as
"interlobar STll", contains a piece of grayish—brown node measuring 0.6 x
0.4 x 0.4 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.

2A ~ specimen bisected and submitted in toto.

". The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as " both
:onchial margin right upper lobe, single suture on tracheal margin,
double suture on bronchial margin", contains a lobe of lung received

Status: complete Page: 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on part of the specimen. The lobe of lung measures 14.0 x 10.5
x 6.7 cm. 0n the hilar area there are two tubular cartilaginous tissue
noted both marked with stitch, one double stitch marking as bronchial
margin and one single stitch marking as the tracheal margin. The
tracheal margin measures 1.5 cm in diameter while the bronchial margin
measures 1.0 cm in diameter. Surrounding this bronchial and tracheal
area is an area of soft tissue, which is firm and is grey-tan in color.
The peripheries of these peri—bronchial and tracheal margins are painted
with India ink. The pleural surface generally is smooth, shiny except
For an area measuring 3.0 x 2.0 cm. This area has some fibrous adhesions
. the pleura. On further sectioning underneath this puckered area is a
ill—defined tumor mass measuring 4.7 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. The cut surface of
the tumor mass is grey—tan to tan-white in color. On further sectioning
about 1.8 cm to this tumor is an area of firmness, yellowish—brown to
grey in color or areas of consolidation noted measuring about 2.0 x 2.0
cm. The tumor is partly solid and some necrotic areas. The remainder of
the lung tissue appears to be grossly unremarkable with no other discrete
lesion noted. Two pieces of tumor, one piece of bronchial mucosa and one
piece of normal lung tissue were taken for snap freezing. Sections are
submitted as follows:
3A — frozen section, bronchial margin resubmitted
3B — froZen section tracheal margin resubmitted
(Tracheal margin broke after resection from major specimen).
BC — frozen section tracheal margin representative deeper section from
site of break resubmitted
3D—3M - bronchial area (bronchus, tracheal) serially sectioned
circumferentially in relation to tumor
3N-3P - representative section of tumor in relation to the pleura with

fibrous adhesion
3Qu3R — representative sections of the tumor in relation to normal tissue

38 —3V ~ representative sections of adjacent area of the tumor area of

consolidation
3W -3X — representative sections of normal lung tissue away from the

tumor

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient1 s name and as " right
Tow paratracheal ST4LR", contains a piece of blackwtan node measuring 1.0
. 0.6 x 0.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.

43 " submitted in toto.

Status: complete

 

Page: 3 of 4

 

5. The specimen container labeled with'the patient' s name and as " right
TB angle ST10R", contains a piece of grey—tan node measuring 1.4 x 0.8 x
0.6 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.

5A — Specimen bisected and submitted in toto.

6. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as
"interlobar STll", contains two pieces of greyish—tan nodes measuring 0.9
x 0.6 X 0.5 cm and 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.
6A ~ submitted in toto.

The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as
“subcarinal 5T7", contains a piece of grayish-brown soft tissue measuring
1.6 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.
7A - submitted in toto.

QUICK SECTION

1A 1’Inflammatory changes identified no malignancy."h
3A " Bronchial margin negative for malignancy“

3B,3C “ Tracheal margin negative for malignancy".

Status: complete Page: 4 of

4

 

 

