study subject ID:

unique patient ll):

Tumor ID:

Collected:
Received:

Reported:

SPECIMENlS):
A: Left lateral margin

B: Right lateral margin

C: Left anterior margin
D: Right posterior margin

E: Right anterior margin

F: Deep margin

G: Bone

H: Ventral side of tongue

10.1) —b:.3

3 . udQ—'

Wmos 8071/3
' M
54: Wed“

' - - MB-BBBA-DBFCBB‘ZACAF
UUID.BE777B:§T EEC! ‘ Redacted

llllllllllllcllﬁllllllllllllll'lllllllllllﬁllllllllllllllllllllllIll

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllllllllllllll‘lllllﬂlll‘llllnllllllwlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

l: Right composite resection, anterior floor of mouth/mandible

J: Sublingual gland, right

K: Level 1

L: Level 2A

M: Level 3

N: Level 4

O: Level 23

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
I. Anterior floor of mouth/mandible, right, composite resection:

- Tumor type: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, keratinizing type,
moderately differentiated.

- Tumor site: anterior floor of mouth.

- Tumor size: 2.5 x 1.3 x 0.3 cm.

- Depth of invasion: 0.3 cm.

- Angiolymphatic invasion: Absent.

- Perineural invasion: Absent.

- Bone sections including bone margins free of involvement by
tumor

- Status of margins: Free of tumor. The tumor is 0.5 cm

from the closest margin (posterior); all other margins are approximately
1 cm or more from the tumor, plus separately submitted margins are all
free of tumor

- Total lymph nodes: 23

- Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/23)

- Stage pTZ/NO/MO

A. Oral cavity, left lateral margin, excision (including AFSl)

- No evidence of malignancy.

B. Oral cavity, right lateral margin, excision (including BFSl)

- No evidence of malignancy.

C. Oral cavity, left anterior margin, excision (including CF51)

- No evidence of malignancy

D. Oral cavity, right posterior margin, excision (including DFSl)

- No evidence of malignancy

E. Oral cavity, right anterior margin, excision (including EF51)

- No evidence of malignancy

F. Oral cavity, deep margin, excision (including FFSl)

- No evidence of malignancy

6. Bone, biopsy

- Benign bone with no evidence of malignancy

H. Tongue, ventral side, excision (including HFSl)

— No evidence of malignancy

J. Sublingual gland, right, excision:

- Benign salivary gland tissue

K. Lymph nodes, level 1, neck dissection
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)

- Unremarkable submandibular gland

L. Lymph nodes, level 2A, neck dissection

- Three lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0)3)

M. Lymph nodes, level 3, neck dissection

— Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

N. Lymph nodes, evel 4, neck dissection

- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

0. Lymph nodes, level 28, neck dissection

- Ten lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0./10)

l have personally reviewed all specimens and or slides, including the
listed special stains, and used them with my medical judgement to

determine the ﬁnal diagnosis.

CLINICAL HISTORY:
The patient is 3 year-old man with squamous cell carcinoma of the
floor of mouth. Operative procedure: Composite resection of anterior

floor of mouth and mandible.

GROSS:
Received are ﬁfteen fresh and formalin-ﬁxed containers each labeled

with the patient's name, and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally labeled "A - left
lateral margin." The specimen consists of a 1.7 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm tan-pink
soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for frozen

section analysis as AFS1.

B. The second container is additionally labeled "8 - right
lateral margin." The specimen consists of a 6.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm tan-pink
soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for frozen

section analysis as BFSl.

C. The third container is additionally labeled "C - left
anterior margin." The specimen consists of a 4.1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm
tan-pink soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for

frozen section analysis as CF51.

D. The fourth container is additionally labeled "Dj - right
posterior margin." The specimen consists of a 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm
tan-pink soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for

frozen section analysis as DFSl.

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally labeled "E - right
anterior margin." The specimen consists of a 3.2 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm
tan-pink soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for

frozen section analysis as EFSl.

F. The sixth container is additionally labeled "F - deep
margin." The specimen consists of a 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm red-tan soft
tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for frozen section

analysis as FFSl.

G. The seventh container is additionally labeled "G - bone.“
The specimen consists of a 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.1 cm tan, bony fragment. The
specimen is submitted intact following decalcification in a single

cassette.

H. The eighth container is additionally labeled "H - ventral
side of tongue." The specimen consists of a 1.7 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm tan-pink
soft tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted intact for frozen

section analysis as HF51.

l. Specimen l is labeled "right composite resection anterior

floor of mouth and mandible." The specimen consists of a segment of
mandible with attached mucosa and soft tissue measuring 6.0 x 2.2 x 3.5
cm. The portion of mandibular bone measures 6.0 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. The
specimen is received oriented as follows: Two long - right, one long -
left, two short - anterior. The specimen is inked as follows: Anterior

- blue, posterior - green, left - yellow, right - red, deep — black. The

mucosal surface is roughened, tan—purple, and a ﬁrm white lesion is

identiﬁed which measures 2.5 x 1.3 cm on cross-section. The tumor is

located 1.1 cm from the right margin, 0.9 cm from the left margin, 3.0

cm from the deep margin and 0.5 cm from the posterior margin. The tumor
invades to a depth of 0.3 cm upon sectioning. Soft tissue and mucosal
margins are submitted and the specimen is placed in decalciﬁcation
solution and the bony portion of the specimen will be submitted at a

later date. Representative sections were procured for future studies on

this specimen.

Summary of sections:

I1 - anterior soft tissue margin, en face (blue).

I2 - left soft tissue and mucosal margin , perpendicular (yellow).

l3 - right soft tissue and mucosal margin, perpendicular (red).

I4 - tumor with posterior (green) and deep (black) soft tissue margins.
l5-l6 - additional tumor with posterior (green) soft tissue margin.

l7- left mandibular margin, en face, and decal.

l8 - right mandibular bone margin, en face, decal. .

l9-I10 - representative sections of mandible, decal.

J. The tenth container is additionally labeled "J - sublingual

gland, right." The specimen consists of a single, partially membranous,
tan, soft tissue mass measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.1 cm in greatest
dimension. The external surface displays a roughened area. The
specimen is serially sectioned to reveal tan, lobulated cut surfaces.
Distinct masses or lesions are not grossly identiﬁed. The entire

specimen is submitted in three cassettes.

Summary of Sections:

11-J3 - entire right sublingual gland.

K. The eleventh container is additionally labeled "K - level

1." The specimen consists of a 5.5 x 4.2 x 2.8 portion of tan-pink soft
tissue. The tissue is dissected to reveal ﬁve potential lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.3 to 2.4 cm. Also identified is a possibly

enlarged submandibular gland. The gland is serially sectioned to reveal
to reveal pyramidal tan cut surfaces without masses or lesions

identified. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of Sections:

K1 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.
K2 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.
K3 - three potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

K4 - representative submandibular gland.

L. The twelfth container is additionally labeled "L - level

2A." The specimen consists of a single unoriented portion of yellow—tan
soft tissue measuring 4.9 x 2.1 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The

soft tissue is dissected to reveal five potential lymph nodes ranging in
size from 0.3 to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. Nodes are entirely

submitted.

Summary of Sections:
L1 — one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.

L2 - four potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

M. The thirteenth container is additionally labeled "M - level

3." The specimen consists of a single unoriented portion of yellow-tan,
fibrofatty tissue measuring 6.1 x 4.1 x 0.9 cm in greatest dimension.
The soft tissue is dissected to reveal three potential lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.3 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Nodes are

entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
M1 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.

M2 - two potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

N. The fourteenth container is additionally labeled "N - level
4." The specimen consists of two irregular portions of yellow-tan soft
tissue measuring 1.7 and 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The fragments

are submitted intact in two cassettes.

Summary of Sections:

N1-N2 - entire level 4.

O. The fifteenth container is additionally labeled "0 - level

28." The specimen consists of a single, unoriented yellow-tan portion

of fibrofatty soft tissue measuring 4.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The soft tissue is dissected to reveal ten potential lymph

nodes ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The

nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:

01 - one potential lymph node, bisected, entirely submitted.
02 - four potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

03 - ﬁve potential lymph nodes, submitted intact.

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination is performed. Permanent sections confirm the

frozen section diagnoses.

    
      
  
 

 
 

Jhgnosls alzaeglni q

5 iman'umot Stu-QM

r .

I “I

41PM Disc-pm ' .
’rior MIR-£33! I‘Ltory '-

Zlual/Synchmnmvs Puma

‘r: :

