Event Date and Time Procedure Ordered Status
Surgical Pathology Report complete

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

    

Collection

 

E\ccession

 

Result can

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report.

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

l. ch: contents left neck dissection ,level 1—4

2. Oral Cavityzﬂoor of mouth margin.

3. Oral Cavity :Deep margin left cheek‘ ‘

1. Oral Cavityzleﬁ buccal margin

5. Oral Cavity :Composite resection of left mandible single long anterior
louble long posterior double short ﬂoor of mouth

3. Oral Cavity:Teeth

1 11:1

i. Surgical waste

)IAGNOSIS .

1.. Contents of neck dissection, levels I—IV.
twenty-eight lymph nodes negative for tumour (0/28).
lubmandibular gland with focal chronic sialadenitis.

1. Floor of mouth margin. -

xlegative for carcinoma.

5. Deep margin leﬁ cheek.
Jegative for carcinoma.

t. Leﬁ buccal margin-
Jegative for carcinoma.

F. Oral cavity; left mandible; composite resection.

lquamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.

,. Maximum tumour diameter 2.2 cm.

i. No lymphovascular invasion.

. No perineural invasion.

i. All margins negative for tumor (>05 cm).

L Sections of mandible are pending. An addendum report Will follow.

i. Teeth.
“hree teeth with no pathologic changes. (Gross examination only)

'. Surgical waste-

 

 

Page 2 of 4

Skin with no pathologic changes. (Gross examination only) -

SYNOPTIC DATA

 

Specimen Type: Resection:Leﬁ mandible composite resection

Tumor Site: Oral Cavity

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.2 cm

Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
venouSIhymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion W/L): Absent
Perineural Invasion: Absent

Additional Pathologic Findings: None identiﬁed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor

Margins uninvolved by tumor — Distance of

tumor from closest margin: 0.7 cm

Margins: ﬂoor of mouth

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

for aerodigestive sites

Number of regional lymph nodes

examined: 28

Number of regional lymph nodes

involved: 0

pMX: Distant. metastasis cannot be assessed

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNMlEdition

CLINICAL HISTORY

left alveolar soc.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "contents of left
neck dissection levels 1 to 4". It consists of an oriented left neck
dissection with dimensions of 13 X 8 x 1.4 cm. The submandibular gland
measures 4 x 2 x 1.5 cm and is unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from
0.1 to 0.9 cm are identiﬁed in multiple levels.

1A submandibnlar gland

lB level I multiple lymph nodes

1C level II, one lymph node

1D level III, one lymph node

1E level III multiple lymph nodes

1F- 1 I level IV multiple lymph nodes

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4

 

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "ﬂoor of mouth
margins". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 2 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

2A frozen section control

3. The'specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “deep margin left
check". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 0.5 cm. The specimen is
submitted in toto for frozen section.

3A ﬁozen section control

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "left buccal
margin". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 cm. The specimen
is submitted in toto for frozen section.

4A frozen section control

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "composite resection
of left mandible single long anterior double long posterior double short ﬂoor
ofmouth". It consists of a left lower mandible measuring 9.8 AP x 4.3 SIX

2.4 ML cm. It includes 3 teeth. There is a tumor involving the alveolar

mucosa. The tumor measures 2.2 AP x 1.2 SIX 1.4 ML cm. The tumor is raised
and congested. The tumor is located at 0.7 cm from the closest ﬂoor of mouth
margin. The distance to the remaining margins is as follows: 0.9 cm lateral
mucosal margin, 1.5 cm anterior mucosa] margin, 1.5 cm posterior mucosal
margin. Representative sections are submitted.

5A medial ﬂoor of mouth margin

SB lateral mucosal margin

3C anterior mucosal margin

5D posterior mucosa] margin

SE tumor- _.;___

3F anterior‘bone margin (decalciﬁcation) ‘ _ ’, 1;
5G posterior bone margin (decalcification)

5H mid mandible and tumor (decalciﬁcation)

S. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "teeth“. It

:onsists of 3 unremarkable teeth ranging in size from 2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm to 2.2 X
).7 x 0.5 cm. No sections are submitted.

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "surgical waste".
t consists of an unremarkable skin measuring 8.5 x 5 x 2.3 cm. No section is
:ubrnitted.

QUICK SECTION

1. Floor of mouth (quick section x1):negative for malignanc-
'I

3. Deep margin, left cheek (quick section x1): negative for malignancy.

 

 

Page '4 of 4

 

 

4. Left buccal mar in nick section xi): negative for malignancy. -

  

 

