 

UUID:631A202D- C715- 4495- SFZB- DZBSFGSRBFeSBBa
TCGA- ZF-M54-01A-PR

II II

II II

”I {III"IIIIIII'IIIII'III“II""II' “'I'IIIIIIII“ W

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII ”pawemwuLVuWMS 9215/3

. (Idea DLCV‘IM‘L.) tidwumtmf $6M, Mammal
Specimen Comments

SPECIMEN . ' § ﬁ MAMA. [ADM “ﬂag/:13

1. Left distal resection margins

2. Right distal resection margins

3. Bladder and prostate QI’W 60/”
CLINICAL DETAILS

Invasive bladder cancer

MACROSCOPY

1. Tubular piece of tissue measuring 12 x 5mm diameter. No focal lesion.

2. Tubular piece of tissue measuring 14 x 6mm diameter.

3. Bladder and prostate with attached ﬁbrofatty tissue. The bladder measures
40mm SI x 35mm ML . The prostate measures 30mm SI, 30mm ML x 21mm AP.
Attached

ﬁbrofatty tissue measures up to 120mm maximum dimension. No lymph nodes
identiﬁed.

In the left lateral wall of the bladder there is an ulcerated area 20mm.
Underlying this is a hard tumour extending into perivessicular fat, measuring
25mm SI by approximately 25mm ML. The tumour extends for a depth of 22mm and
IS

very close to the leﬁ lateral soﬁ tissue circumferential resection margin.
Elsewhere, on the right side of the urethral oriﬁce is an area of mucosal
irregularity 15 x 12mm.

MICROSCOPY

The tumour seen in the left lateral wall of the bladder is a sarcomatoid variant
of transistional cell carcinoma/high grade urothelial carcinoma. The tumour is
composed predominantly of high grade malignant spindle cells with no
heterologous elements evident. Superﬁcially, the morphology of the tumour is
more reminiscent of a solid conventional high grade urothelial carcinoma and
there is some overlying carcinoma in situ from which the tumour appears to be
arising. There is no deﬁnite evidence of lymphovascular invasion.

The tumour invades through the muscularis propria into the perivessicular fat
(pT3) and is 2mm from the circumferential resection margin at its closest point
(block 38). ‘

The macroscopically abnormal area near the bladder neck shows evidence of oedema
and increased vascularity associated with urothelial hyperplasia. There is some
patchy dysplasia in this area which just amounts to C18 in a few foci. The
prostatic urethra shows evidence of similar oedema and increased vascularity
associated with von Brunn's nests and hyperplasia but there is no evidence of
dysplasia and the prostatic resection margin is clear of neoplasia.

The prostate, vas deferens and seminal vesicles show no signiﬁcant abnormality.
The left and right distal ureteric resection margins (specimens 1 and 2) show no
deﬁnite evidence of carcinoma in situ.

SUMMARY

Cystoprostatectomy:

Sarcomatoid variant of high grade urothelial carcinoma.(G3,pT3)

2mm clearance from leﬁ lateral circumferential resection margin.

Adjacent carcinoma-in-situ.

Urothelial resection margins clear.
Ref:
Pathologists -

 

