 

Accession #1
Dale of Procedure

Patient Nam
Med. Rec. #:

DOB: Dam of Receipt:
Gender: Dore of Report
Rel. Physicran: Account is:
Pollen! Address: Billing Type;

 

Adrliiional (Sony lo:
Ref. Scarce:

Cilnicai Diaqnosis & History:
toll renal mass

Sgecimons Submitted:

1: Lei! kidney and ponion of Spleen; loin! manhroctomy ant! partial spionocloniy

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Left kidney and porlion of spleen; total nephrectomy and parlial splenoctorny:
Yomor Tyne:
Renal Cell carcinoma - Papillary lypo
'E‘ype ll

Histologir: Grade (for urolhelial carcinonm);
High grade

Tumor Size;
Greatest diameter is 4.7 cm.

Local invasion (lor renal cortical lypes):
Extends llarorrgh renal capsule but confined wilhin Gerola's fascia

Renal Vein invasion:
Nol looniitinn

Surgical Margins:
Free 03' tumor
Non—Neoplnslic Kidney:
Focal glomomlosclerosrs and vascular changes consisten: with clinical history of hypertensron

Adrenal Gland:
Not identified
Portion of benign congested spleen adherent lo kidney, nol involved by tumor

Lymph Nodos:
Not irlenliﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomnloncooyiorna:
pTl Tumor <: 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to rho kidney

Connnnnl: Case reviewed a—

 

Pnge ‘l of 2

 

 

iATTEST THAT THE ABOVE BlitGNOSlS ES BASED LEON MY PERSONAL EXNJINATION OF THE SLlDES [ANDIOR DYHER MATERMU. AND THAT 5 i'lfi‘ff:
RENEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

 

 

 

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain COtlll‘nL‘Ili
PAS

Gross Description:

i. The specimen is resolved fresh labeled "left kidney and portion of spleen" and consists of the aforementioned organs with
attached ureter, renal vessels and perinephric int weighing 272.5 g in total. The kidney measmes 10.8 x 5.8 x 4.6 cm. there is a
2.9 x 1.7 x 0.6 cm iragsnent of grossly unremarkable spleen with a ragged surgical margin (inked blue}. The attached ureter
measures 4.5 on: in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.9 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter.
The renal vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland rs not identified The kidney is inked black and
bivalved to reveal a 4.8 x 4.7 x «to cm lohutateo lesion with a tan yellow solid and cystic surface located in the upper pole and
midponion of the kidney. This lesions breaks out into perinepiiric la! and is adherent to the fragment of spleen described above.
The tumor approaches within (3.1 oi the surgical margins out the margins are grossly negative. Sections through the kidney reveal
a pink brown parenchyma. with a poorly-deﬁned cortico—rnerlniterry junction. The cortex measures 0.9 cm and the calypso appear
normal. Lymph nodes are not identified in tho porinopnnc lat. Representative sections are Submitted for TPS and for permanent
sections. A gross photograph is taken.

Surnnrary of sections:

UVivi .- uroleral and vessel margins

Tu tumor including adherent spleen
THE—w tumor with iiiiar fat

TSF -- tumor with sinus lat

TK -- tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections
K .- representative sections kidney

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Left kidney end portion of spleen; total nephrectomy and partial spleneclonty

Block Sect. Silo PCs
k

‘53

i

tiif
tk
tsi
uvm

dMJMC’l—J—w—L
ml-Nmtmmﬁ—x

 

 

Page 2 oi 2 END OF RE?ORT

