      

.CGA—1B—341ﬂ

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
* Addended *

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

1. Bone: portion seventh rt rib

2. Lymph node: INF pulm ligament 3T9

3. Lymph node: Interlobar STll

4. LUNGS: Right lower lobe with 8th and 9th rib— bronchial resection

margin/Q8

DIAGNOSIS
1. Portion of seventh rib:
- Consistent with normal rib bone. {GROSS DIAGNOSIS ONLY)

2. Inferior pulmonary ligament ST9 lymph node:
w Negative for malignancy, lymph node.

. Interlobar ST11 lymph node:
i~ Negative for malignancy, lymph node.

4. Right lower lobe of lung with 8th and 9th ribs, reSection:

.- Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, peripheral with
invasion into the chest wall.

— Tumor greatest diameter 4 cm.

~ Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor but show focal squamous
metaplasia without atypia.

‘ Peribronchial lymph node negative for malignancy.

n Chest wall surgical resectiOn margins negative for tumor.

COMMENT
After decalcification, the rib case will be examined again for bone

invasion. Nevertheless, this appears to be an apparent complete resection
of a pTBNO carcinoma.

 

Status: complete Page: 1 of 3

 

 

 

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient' s name and as
IiBone: portion seventh rt rib". Grossly the bone is unremarkable. No
sections Submitted for processing.

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 3 name and as "Lymph
node: inferior pulmonary ligament 8T9", contains 1 node measuring 1.2 x
0.7 x 0.5 cm in thickness received in 10% buffered formalin.

”a bisected node submitted in toto.

3. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as "Lymph
node: Interlobar ST11", contains a grey to black tissue measuring 0.6 x
0.5 x 0.4 cm. received in 10% buffered formalin.

3A submitted in toto.

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 6 name and as
"Lungs: right lower lobe with 8th and 9th rib» bronchial resection
margin", contains a right lower lobe of lung with attached chest wall
which includes the 9th and 8th rib with layer of muscle tissue attached
on the outer surface. The specimen overall measures 16.0 x 10.0 x 5.5
cm. The two ribs together measure 9.0 x 5.5 x about 2.0 cm in
thickness. A line of staples SI are identified. A large nodule
peripherally, white, solid and lobular measuring approximately 4.0 cm in
maximum dimension. ‘Between the rib and the tumor of the lung parenchyma
is a portion of thickened fibrous tissue. This rubbery fibrous white—tan
tissue measures 8.2 x 4.5 x 2.9 cm in maximum thickness. The lesion
appears to extend into this fibrous region crossing the pleural Surface.
The lesion is 3.6 cm away from the bronchial resection margin. There is
a small area of emphysematous change approximately 3.5 cm from the
bronchial resection margin. Four pieces of tumor and 1 piece of lung
taken for tissue frozen. Intraoperative consultation performed on the
bronchial resection margin. Representative sections are submitted as

follows:
4A—B bronchial resection, frozen section
4C segmental node
an emphysematous area
E segmental node
E—G anterior resection margin of fibrous tissue
4HHI posterior resection margin of fibrous tissue

Status: complete Page: 2 of

3

 

 

superior resection margin of fibrous tissue

4K inferior resection margin of fibrous tissue

4L—M tumor in the lung parenchyma with respect to the fibrous
tissue

4N P tumor with respect to the lung parenchyma

4Q R sections of consolidation and emphysematous change

Section of tumor fibrous tissue with respect to rib to be sent after decal

 

Addendum Comment

Additional sections that include the decalcified rib bone and adjacent
tumor shows peri osteal invasion, but there does not appear to be
invasion through the bony cortex into the rib bone. There is no change in
the original diagnosis of the case.

Status: complete Page: 3 of 3

 

