 

 

UUID:anaanaas-Acts-4:14-ssca-4nzasarnnisa
TCGA-ss-A49o-o1A-PR Redacted

 

   
 
  

Collected:
Received:
Reported:

i SURGICAL THOLOGY REPORT "

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Level 9 lymph node:
Benign, hyperplasia (0(1).

 

 

 

 

} it D, 0—3
5. Right upper lobe of lung lobectomy:
Carcinoma. . Rd CHO COW C 1 mom N 93
Tumor Characteristics: '
. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. 8 i 40‘ 3

. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. , v
. Tumor site: Periphery - right upper lobe. 5‘ \C' " \Mcb' Wipe/f \ Obﬁ
. Tumor focality: Unitocal. ‘
Tumorsize: 5.5x4.3x3.8 cm. cl’ll’ \Z RD C34 .(
Visceral pleural invasion; Not identiﬁed.
Lymphovascuiar space invasion: Findings present suspicious for lymphovascular space invasion.
. Tumor extension: Tumor conﬁned to lung.
. Treatment effect: Not idenﬁﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 1.5 cm.
. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: 2.0 cm.
. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.1 cm.
Lymph Node Status (utilizing both specimens):
. Total number of lymph nodes received: 2.
. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: None (0/2).
Other:
. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Patchy ﬁbrosis and chronic inﬂammation.
. Block 5 Is submitted for lung carcinoma mutation panel evaluation. a further report will follow.
. pTNM stage: pTZb, N0.

 

mmylgipapuN-s

N4 VIN-D

NN-‘l

Electronic Signature:

CLINICAL INFORMATION

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: year old . with right lung cancer.
Postoperative Diagnosis:

SymptomsJRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Level 9

6. Right upper lobe

SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION: .
The specimen is received In two formalin ﬁlled containers labeled with the patient's name

 

A ContainerA is additionally labeled level 9 and contains a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. purple-gray rubbery nodule consistent with lymph node. The specimen
a satiety submitted in cassette A1 labeled

 

a Casters S s *2: t‘cnaily labeled right upper lobe and contains a 16.0 x 8.0 x 5.5 cm. lung lobe. The pleura is purple~pink. anthracotic and features

an 11.0 x 4.0 cm. area of exposed parenchyma. Extending from the area of exposed parenchyma are two staple lines, 3.0 and 4.5 cm. in length. Also
present Within the exposed perenchyma are multiple segments of vasculature and bronchi. Discrete masses are not identiﬁed. The stapled margins and
the exposed parenchyma are inked black. The pleura is remarkable for a 4.5 x 3.0 cm. aggregate of induration and umbilication. The site is also inked
black. The specimen is sectioned to reveal a 5.5 x 4.3 x 3.8 cm. well delineated gray-white mass that abuts the pleura at the site of umbilication and
Il‘ldUI’allOl‘l. Additionally, this mass approaches to within 1.5 cm. of the exposed parenchymai margin and to within 2.0 cm. of the closest stapled margin.

Additional masses are not identiﬁed. The uninvolved parenchyma is tan-pink and spongy with areas of emphysematous change. A possible 0.7 cm.
parabronchial lymph node is identiﬁed.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes B1a8 labeled lesignated as follows: Bi and 2—exposed bronchial and vascular
margins, en face; BIS-inked exposed parenchyma. perpendicular. Bit—stapled parenchymal margins. perpendicular, 5—mass at site of pleural

umbilication. perpendicular, Mass to normal appearing parenchyma; T-additional mass: a—emphysematous change and one whole possible
parabronchlal lymph node.

i 'ona b ubmitt i

 

 

Tumor site

 

