l llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllll

UUID: 3C79307E- 8985- 4-F-42 BEES- 66030863249;
TCGA- GU- AATO- H91A PR

Results

Patient information
Patient Name

Result Information
Status
Edited

Entry Date

Component Results

Component
Surgical Pathology

Patient Name;
Med Rec #:
Accession 1r. .

image Analysis Data Ordered:
Date Complete;
Date Reported:

Interpretation

Prognostic markers performed on biock 013
BLADDER CANCER RECURRENCE SCORE
p21 by 1H0 and lMAGE-QUANTITATION:

Altered

Percent Positive Average: 0%
Staining intensity Grade: 0
HistoSeore: 0

p21 aitered range («0%)

p27 by HO and {MAGE QUANTITATiON:

Unattered

Percent Positive Average: 78%
Staining intensity Grade: 2
HishoScore: 7

p2? aitered range (<30%)

p53 by MC and {MAC-3E QUANTITATION:

Altered

Percent Positive Average: 83%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7

p53 altered range (>=10%)

Provider Status

Status: Signed. Out

5J3; 23am waﬁé MAS

BIOPSY on SURGICAL SPECIMEN wafer“

Sex [108
Male

Lab

ICLD '5 13

aawuwmeanuﬁldeNas

>3!&C>/¢5

ae7?
Q4 3 Mia an i)

Page I of 7

 

 

Kl-67 by IHC and Image QUANTITATiON:

A'iiered

Percent Positive Average: 35%
Staining intensity Grade: 2
HistoScors: 5

Kl-67 altered range @1096)

Cyclin E by IHC and iMAGE QUANTITATION:

Unaltered

Percent Positive Average: 32%
Staining intensity Grade: 1
HistoScore: 4

Cyciin E altered range (<30%)

INTERPRETATION:
Prognostic Signiﬁcance: Unfavorable
3 Biomarkeris) altered
Range: Favorable < = 2 altered biomarksrs
Unfavorable > 2 altered biomarkers

Comment:

In the above tumor proﬁle the number of altered biomarkers improves the
predictive accuracy for patients with PTa-T3 N0 Bladder Cancer. Greater than 2'
altered blomarkers are associated with increased risk of recurrence.

Note:
Staining intensity based on 0 (neg) to 3+ (highest)
Percent Positive Average: Percentage of tumor cells staining.
guest?) = Percenuge of tumor cells staining (Sate 0-5) + Intensity

ca 9 .
These tests were performed IHC In conjunction with automated image
analysis. The performance characteristics of the above tests have been
determined in the ‘ . While some antibodies have not been
approved by the FDA. clearance I approval is not mandated. These antibodies
are well documented and clinically accepted prognostic indicators.

These tests should not be regarded as part of march investigations. Known
positive and negative control tissue show appropriate staining.

The above tumor bio-markers were performed per protocol.
The system used for image quantitation is the

The method used for antigen retrieval is heat induced

M Page 2 at"!

 

 

epitope retrieval.
College of American Pathologists (CAP) required information for

predictivelprognostic markers. Type of specimen fixation and detection system:

polymer detection kits are used on formalin-ﬁxed paraifrn-embedded sections.

Eli-Eras) user. p21 (SX118); p27(SX53GB); p53 (DO-7); Ki-B7 (MlBo1): Cyciin E

Prognostic markers perionned at

Results-Comments
{Not Entered}

FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS

A Left distal ureter, biopsy:
- Negative for carcinoma or high grade dyslea

8. Right distal ureter. biopsy:
- Negative for carcinoma or high gm dyspiasle

C. Bladder and prostate. radical cystoprostatectcmy:
- invasive high grade urotheiial carcinoma with micropaplliary features.
Invasion

into the prostate gland and seminal vesicles, and extensive Iymphovascuiar
Invasion. pT4aN2MX

- The tumor extends to the Inked and ceuterized deep surgical margin

multiiocally

- See CAP Staging Protocol below hr iull report

D. Left lymph nodes. dissection:

- Four tour lymph nodes. positive for metastatic carcinoma (414)

- The largest nodal deposit measures 9.0 mm in greatest dimension. without
extracepsuiar extension

CAP Staging Protocol for Carcinoma of the Prostate Gland

Specimen: Bladder and prostate

Pmcedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 9.0 cm

fl-éiasaoiogic Type: Urolhelial (transitional cell) carcinoma. with micropaptllary
res

Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed

D--- G

-1"!

 

 

Histologic Grade: Urotheliai Carcinoma (WHO 2004llSUP): High-grade
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor involves muscularls propria
Tumor Invades perivesical tissue
Tumor invades prostate and seminal vesicles

Margins: Carcinoma is present at the cauterized and inked deep margin
mtrltiioceliy

Lymph-Vascularlnvasion: Present. extensive

Palhoiogic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (pT): pT4a: Tumor invades prostallc stroma or uterus or
vagina

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastasis in
the true pelvis

Number of lymph nodes examined: 4. Number involved: 4
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Ancillary Studies: if necessary, ancillary studies may be performed on block
C13.

The above pathoiogy diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists whbh are based on the AJCCIUICC TNM. 7th
edition.

mElectronically Signed Out By I '
CLINICAL HISTORY
Bladder cancer

Radical cystectomy. lymph node dissection lieal conduit. all other indicated
procedures .

SPECIMEN(S) RECENED
A: Left distal ureter

B: Right distal ureter

C: Bladder and prostate

D: Left pelvic lymph nodes

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Specimen A received fresh. labeled with the patents name and designated 'leit
’ distal ureter" Is a tan. tubular segment of tissue. 0.3 cm in length x 0.5 cm In

diameter. The specimen is submlmd entirely for frozen section diagnosis as
A1.

Specimen B received fresh. labeled with the patients name and designated "right
dish! ureter” Is a tan. tubular segment of tissue. dilated. 0.3 in length x 1.0

cmér‘rl diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis
as .

Specimen C:

Type of specimen: Urinary bladder. ureter stumps. prostate. seminal vesicles
The patients name and case number on the specimen container match the

a martyr

 

 

accompanying paperwork and cassettes.
Procedure: Radical cystectomy
leative: Fresh '
Dimensions: Overall: 11.0 cm SI x 10.5 cm R-i. x ?.0 cm AP

Bladder. 6.0 Si 3: 4.0 cm R-L x 4.0 cm AP

Right ureter: 3.0 cm length. 0.8 cm diameter

Left ureter". 2.5 cm length. 0.5 cm diameter

Prostate: 4.0 cm apex-base, 5.5 cm R-L, 3.5 cm AP
Description of ﬁndings;
Tumor: There is diffuse, ulcerated tumor covering the posterior , right
lateral, and anterior wall. The ulceration extends into the left lateral
mucosa. The overall tumor area is 9.0 x40 x 2.0 cm. The tumor has an
irregular border, extends through the muscularis propria and extends to the
perivesicuiar inked surface. The tumor possibly extends into the seminal
vesicles, with the seminal vesicles showing white, firm parenchyma. The tumor
invasion through the muscularis propri‘a into the soft tissue shows indurated.
solid tumor. focally extending to the inked surface. Multiple sections are
submitted for tissue procurement. The right ureteral oriﬁce is surrounded with
ulcerated, hemorrhagic mucosa. The left ureteral oriﬁce is focally congested.
The mucosa of the ureters Is unremarkable.
Involvement of important adjacencies: Perivesical fat, possibly into the seminal
vesicles.
Uninvolved mucosa: There is no unremarkable mucosa in the bladder.
Prostate. seminal vesicles and vase deferentia: The prostate is serially
sectioned apex to base: into six slabs. The parenchyma is ten, focally cystic
with pale parenchyma extending from the mldline into each lobe, most prominent
in the anterior aspect. In slab 6. there is local while parenchyma along the
outer edge of the prostate focally invading into the prostate parenchyma. This
inﬁltration is most prominent in the right prostate.
ink code: anterior bladder a black, posterior bladder = green. right prostate =
orange. left prostate = blue, anterior prostate = green, posterior prostate. a
black
Gross photographs are taken.
Section key:
01 - urethra margin
(:2. CS ~ bladder neck central to seminal vesicles. one piece
04.05 - right bladder neck to seminal vesicles". and piece
CG. C? - left bladder neck to seminal vesicles. one piece
C8, 09 - right ureteral oriﬁce. right ureter edge, one piece
Cit). Cl’i - left ureteral orifice, left ureter edge, one piece
012 - right bladder. tumor to inked surface
(:13, 014 - right lateral wall. tumor through muscularis proprla to inked surface
(:15 - right lateral wall. tumor through muscularis propria to inked surface
016. Ct? - posterior wall. tumor through muscularis propria to inked surface
(:18 ~ dome, tumor muscularls propria
019. 020 - left bladder wall. with tumor extending from posterior wall
(321-023 ~ anterior bladder, tumor through muscular proprla to-inked surface
C24 - slab 1 prostate right apex
025 - slab ‘l prostate left apex
628 - slab 3 prostate right
. 027 - slab 3 prostate left
028 - slab 5 prostate right anterior
029 ~ slab 5 prostate right posterior
030 — slab 5 prostate left anterior
C331 ~ slab 5 prostate left posterior
(332 - slab 6 right lateral prostate anterior
033 - slab 6 right lateral prostate posterior
C34 ~ slab 6 mid prostate anterior
035 - slab 6 mid prostate posterior
036 ~ slab 6 left lateral prostate anterior
037 - slab 6 left lateral prostate posterior

‘1"... E .r‘r'l

 

 

Specimen D received in formalin. labeled with the patient’s name and designated
"left pelvic lymph node“ is fragmented adipose tissue. 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm.
There are four possible nodes. 0.6 cm to 4.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. The cut surface of

the nodes shows while-gray. slightly gritty parenchyma. The nodes are submitted
entirely as follows:

01 - one node bisemd

DZ - one node serially sectioned into 5 pieces

03 - one node quadrlsected

D4. D6 - one node serially sectioned into 11 pieces

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

The stain quality is acceptable.

AD. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnoses rendered.
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS

Time in: . Time out
A1-FS. Left distal ureter: "No dysplasia or mminoma seen“.
B1-FS. Right distal ureter. “No dysplesla or carcinoma seen“.

Reported to by

interpretation performed at:

 

 

 

 

 

 

w . __ .: lntraogrative Consulm Eggn-
Reeuit Histo _ # _

BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN E i - Order Result Him Read.
Result Notes

Notes Recorded by a
Collection Information

Date and Time ‘ - Medan it

Lab Information

Reviewed by List

M '__.,§.

PagéGof‘I

 

 

Status:
This order is currently not shared in ‘ ‘ '“ '

Order BIOPSY 0R SURGICAL SPECIMEN . (Order
Patient Information

Patient Name MRN Sex DOB
. ‘ ’

Visit information
Date Time Department Provider
' Urology , —

Admission information
Attending Provider Admitting. Provider Admissionl‘l‘ype. Admission Datemme

Discharge Date Hospital Service AuthiCert Status Service Area

Unit RoomIBed Admission Status

Unknown Status (No Conﬁrmation
._.__..W..___..._- W .. status}

Order Information

Order Daﬁ aid lime Ordering User Department

Urology
Order

Order Name Code Ord_er Number
BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN

Order Providers

Authorizing Provider Encounter Previder

Collection information

Date and Time Accession #

Priority and Order Details

Priority Class
Routine

 

 

