Operative Procedure:
Right thoracotomy, pneumonectomy

Specimen Received:

: Left paratracheal LN

lnferior pulmonary ligament LN
Lymph node: Parat

Lymph node: High

Right lung

Carinal margin

Subcarinal lymph nodes

QTWPQW>

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Lymph node, left paratracheal, excision:
One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)

B. Lymph node, inferior pulmonary ligament, excision:
One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)

C. Lymph node, paratracheal #2, excision:
Eighteen lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/18)

D. Lymph node, high paratracheal 2R, excision:
One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)

E. Lung, right, resection:
Squamous cell carcinoma. See cancer synoptic report.

Specimen: Right lung

Procedure: Pneumonectomy

Specimen laterality: Right

Tumorsite: Hilum

Specimen integrity: lntact

Tumor size: 6.4 cm (greatest dimension)

Tumor focality: Single mass involving upper, middle, and lower lobe
Tumor histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated

Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified

Tumor extension: Extension into hilar area
Margins:
Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Vascular margin: Soft tissue adjacent to blood vessel which is
involved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal margin: Not applicable
Parietal pleural margin: Not applicable
Chest wall margin: Cannot be assessed

Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable

Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: None
Primary tumor (pT): pT2b
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN1
Number examined: 32
Number involved: 1
If lymph node(s) involved, specify involved nodal station(s):
Peribronchial
Distant metastasis (pM): pr

Additional pathologic findings: Emphysema

F. Lung, carina margin, excision:
Negative for tumor
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed

G. Lymph node, subcarinal, excision:
Seven lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/7)

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSF Carina margin:

Negative.
FS TAT: 19 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are seven containers labeled with the patient's name.

Part A is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "left paratracheal

lymph node." The specimen consists of a gray-tan probable lymph node received
with some associated fat which has a greatest dimension of 1.4 cm. The lymph
node is trisected and entirely submitted in cassette A.

Part B is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "inferior pulmonary
ligament lymph node." The specimen consists of a gray-tan probable lymph node
received with some associated fat which has a greatest dimension of 0.7 cm. The
lymph node is submitted in toto in cassette B.

Part C is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "paratracheal lymph
node #2." The specimen consists of an aggregate of irregular, ragged,
gray-yellow, lobulated fat which has dimensions 6 x 4 x 1.6 cm. An exhaustive

search of the fat reveals 17 probable lymph node that range from 0.4 to 2.2 cm
in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are submitted as labeled:

C1: Five lymph nodes submitted in toto

C2: Six lymph nodes submitted in toto

CS: Five lymph nodes submitted in toto

C4: Representative section of the largest lymph node

Part D is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "high paratracheal 2R
lymph node." The specimen consists of a gray-tan probable lymph node received
with some associated fat which has a greatest dimension of 1.5 cm. The lymph
node is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette D.

Part E is received in formalin (some tissue has been submitted fresh to the
Tissue Bank) and is additionally labeled "right lung." The specimen
consists of a right lung with the usual three lobation which has a weight of 498
g and dimensions of 20.4 x 7.9 x 8.8 cm. The pleura is gray-purple to black,
lobulated and glistening with focal anthracotic pigmentation throughout. The
hilar structures are identified with the bronchus open and the vessels ligated.
Some of the soft tissue at the hilum is granular and cauterized. This cauterized
surface is inked blue. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a
gray-white, granular, focally friable, indurated mass at the hilum which has
dimensions of 6.4 x 4.6 x 3.9 cm. This mass extends to within 0.3 cm of the
bronchial margin. This mass extends to within 0.1 cm of the new inked cauterized
surface at the hilum. This mass involves the upper, middle and lower lobes. This
mass extends to within 1 mm of the pleural surface. Additionally, this mass
markedly compresses and superficially invades the vessels at the hilum. The lung
parenchyma outside of the area of the mass is gray-tan to red-brown, spongy with
some peripheral consolidation. The bronchi and vessels distal to the mass are
somewhat dilated. The bronchi contain thick, gray-green mucus. There is some
bronchiectasis present. Also, there is a confluence of grossly positive,
extraparenchymal, peribronchial lymph nodes present which has dimensions of 3 x
1.6 x 0.7 cm. Representative sections are submitted as labeled:

E1: Bronchial margin

E2:Vascular margin

E3: Mass to blue inked cauterized surface at the hilum

E4: Mass to upper lobe

E5: Mass to lower lobe

E6: Mass to lower lobe

E7: Mass to lower lobe to include pleura

E8: Mass to include compressed and superficially invaded vessels

E9: Bronchiectasis and consolidation

E10: Normal most lung parenchyma

E11: Confluence of grossly positive lymph nodes

Part F is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and is additionally
labeled "carina margin." The specimen consists of two irregular, gray-tan
fibrocartilaginous tissues which have dimensions of 1 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm and 2.4 x
0.6 x 0.4 cm. Representative sections have been submitted for frozen section
diagnosis and the residue resubmitted for permanent sections in cassette F1.

While additional representative sections are submitted in cassette F2.

Part G is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "subcarinal lymph
nodes." The specimen consists of a portion of irregular, ragged, gray-yellow,
lobulated fat which has dimensions of 4.6 x 3.2 x 2.2 cm. This fat is serially
sectioned to reveal a confluence of gray-tan to brown-black lymph nodes. These
lymph nodes are somewhat indurated and are grossly suspicious for metastasis.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes G1 and G2.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination

findings.

END OF REPORT

