 

 

UUID:1C533F2E—eAAB-477F-8281-63455E0036E2
TCGA-BC-4073-91A-PR Rﬁﬁlﬁﬂted

llllHlllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll
l llllllllllllllllllllll|ll|lllllllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

/cA-a [a
\ 6! 9‘ AW: '
' Number : ‘ c 7 3,727.)
3
sdzrﬂwr-caa—o /”
Collection Date : 7/57"

Collected:
Received:
Completed:

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

A: Lymph node, portal, excision

— No metastatic carcinoma identified in one lymph node
(0/1)

— Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed

B: Liver, left lobe, Segments 1-4, partial hepatectomy

Tumor histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma
Histologic grade (Edmonson \T\ Steiner classification):
Grade 3—4 out of 4 (moderately to poorly differentiated)

Tumor size, focality and extent: Multiple tumor nodules
ranging from 0.5 cm to 3.5 cm in diameter are present
throughout the specimen, comprising approximately 50% of
the overall specimen volume; overall tumor size more than
5.0 cm

Necrosis: Present; approximately 40 % of the total tumor
volume is necrotic (status post radiofrequency ablation)

Pattern of growth: Solid and trabecular growth patterns
Venous invasion: Extensively present; tumor thrombus
present in large portal vein branch at resection margin and
extensive microscopic intravascular tumor foci throughout

the specimen

Perforation of peritoneum: Not identified

 

 

Surgical margins: Positive; hepatocellular carcinoma
present in multiple portal vein branches (grossly and
microscopically) at the resection

margin (slides B11, 813)

Non—neoplastic liver: - Patchy parenchymal iron deposition
(1—2+) by iron stain

— Moderate fibrosis (stage 2—3) but no obvious cirrhosis
seen by Trichrome stain

- Moderate mixed micro~ and macrovesicular steatosis
involving approximately 10% of the total liver volume

Regional lymph nodes: None received with this specimen (see
also portal lymph node above, specimen A)

AJCC Stage: pT3 pNO pr

Note: This staging information is based on this pathologic
specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of
all available information is recommended

to determine final staging.

C: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy
— Chronic cholecystitis with cholelithiasis

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative consultation was requested by Dr.

FSAl: "Portal lymph node," excision
- No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

left hepatic lobe lesions (Segments 2 and 3). The patient
has a history of right lobe HCC. Status post radiofrequency
ablation. The patient also has questionable history of
hemochromatosis.

Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "portal lymph node." It
holds a 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment.

 

 

 

BLOCK: FSBl - Frozen section remnant, entirely
submitted

Bl—BZ — Remainder of specimen, entirely
submitted

Specimen C was additionally labeled "segment 5 and 6,
liver". The specimen consists of a partial hepatectomy that
weighs 400 grams and measures 12.0 x 10.0 x 4.0 cm. The
external surface is tan/brOWn and has multiple variable
sized nodules that measure up to 4.5 cm. In addition, a
central focus of cavitation is noted that measures 3.0 x
3.0

cm across and 2.8 cm in depth, which is consistent with a
possible previous biopsy. The area of resection is inked
black prior to sectioning. The specimen is sequentially
sectioned at 1.5 cm thick cross sections. On cut section,
the nodules are tan/gray, well circumscribed, and have
multifocal patchy areas of pale yellow softening. The
closest nodule extends to within 2.0 cm of the inked
surgical margin of resection. Elsewhere, the parenchyma is
tan/brown and has a lobular appearance.

Block Summary:

C1 — Representative section of nodule closest to
surgical margin

C2 - Representative additional sections of surgical
margin

C3 — Representative section of tumor and unremarkable
parenchyma

C4 — Representative section of tumor nodule with pale
yellow discoloration

Specimen D is received in one appropriately labeled
container, additionally labeled "porta hepatis mass". The
specimen consists of a 5.6 x 3.8 x 2.2 cm unoriented
tan/brown soft tissue fragment. The entire outer surface of
the specimen is inked blue. The specimen is serially
sectioned and the cut surface reveals a tan/white—
circumscribed nodule with central softening and

hemorrhage, consistent with necrosis. The mass occupies the
entire specimen. Representative sections are submitted in
cassettes D1—D3.

Specimen E is additionally labeled "segment 3 liver
biopsy".

. . . “w”... draw,- —

One candidate lymph node was identified
that measures 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. It is submitted as FSAl.
The remainder of fibroadipose tissue is submitted as A1,

Container B:

Specimen Type: lobectomy (Segments 1-4)

Specimen Weight: 700 grams

Measurement: 15 x 13 x 6.5 cm; There is a roughened surface
marked with a long suture. This was inked black and
represents the

medial margin of the partial hepatectomy specimen. There is
a second cut surface which is smooth and is inked blue. No
designatation of surgical margins was included with the
specimen.

Mass: There are multiple soft—firm tan, white nodules
diffusely spread throughout the lateral half of the
specimen. Tumor is estimated to involve 60%

of liver parenchyma. Diameter of nodules ranges from 0.5—
3.5 cm. Tumor is

located 0.5 cm from blue inked margin and 1.5 cm from black
inked margin. No

discrete nodules are present in the medial half of the
Specimen (near the black

inked margin), but there appears to be involvement by tumor
of the vascular

spaces in this region.

Adjacent liver tissue: The remainder of liver parenchyma
appears normal. No fibrosis is evident.

Capsule: appears thickened and is nodular

Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: gross evidence of vascular
invasion (major portal vein and other smaller vascular
spaces in the medial half of the

specimen) is present

Gallbladder: submitted as Specimen C

Block summary:
Bl-BZ — portal triad vascular margins

B3 — portal vein with black inked margin
B4 — tumor with blue inked margin

BS—B6 — representative sections of tumor
B7 — tumor with capsule
B8 - tumor with adjacent uninvolved liver parenchyma

B9 - tumor with involvement of vasculature
810—813 — representative sections of black inked margin, en

 

face
814 * uninvolved liver parenchyma

Container C:

Previously opened: no
vMeasurements: 7.5 x 3.0 x 1.6 cm

External surface: pink/tan with a roughened hepatic surface
Wall thickness: 2-4 mm

Mucosa: red and granular with adherent black granular
material and multiple firm

black stones

Stones present: measuring from 2 to 6 mm; black/tan and
firm and angulated

Other comments: none

Block #: C1

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

