Page 1 of 3

 

UUID: A528322F- F869- 4016- A8C2- -F3A43339F6AB
TCGA- IB- -AAUN-91A-P

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORTV

III IlIIIIIIIIIIIIlII IIIIIlIII I
III II ”III lIIlIllIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIH“IIIImﬂmm
CONFIDENTIAL IIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIlIIIlIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

Time Collected Ti—me Received “ ' "'
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Status Final Relevant Information
Location
Copied To
Report Patient Name:
Demographics (for
veriﬁcation purposes)
Sex: F
I63) C) ‘5 /
€600
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ( aha/mm ML) Add} N05 5
*****Surgical Pathology Report***“ 1 a 02157 U (:3
Accession Number 1.1 4 95’“! jwﬂw'
Collected Date/Time 64);)” I m E
Received Date/Time . C. 7 , «w A
Pathologist ' @QL’I‘WMJ‘K‘“ WE) C 02 U. I

Specimen Description

A. Lymph node of group A at _» j ,
B. Bile duct margin at C903 0 (:2 O [‘7'
C. Whipple's specimen at

D. Portal vein margin at

Clinical Information

Pancreatic mass— head of pancreas.

 

Diagnosis
A. Lymph nodes. group A, excision:
- Seven lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/7).
B. "Bile duct margin", excision-
- Benign bile duct with focal acute inflammation and reactive changes.
- Negative for malignancy.
C. "Whipple‘ s specimen“:
— Invasive ductal adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.3 cm, see
synaptic report.
- Margins of resection negative (0.1 cm away from the nearest distal
pancreatic margin and 0.1 cm away from the nearest uncinate margin).
- Extensive perineural invasion.
— Tumor extends to the vascular bed edge of the specimen,see comment.
— Eight peripancreatic lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/8).
D. Portal vein margin. Excision:
- Negative for carcinoma.
Reported by:
Electronically signed by:
Verified:

Synoptic Report

HISTOLOGIC TYPE:

Ductal adenocaroinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

c2: Moderately differentiated

MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:

Tumor is confined to pancreas

MARGINS:

Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance Of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1 mm
Specified margin: Uncinate and distal pancreatic margins

Page 2 of 3

LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION:
Not identified
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Present
PRIMARY TUMOR (p'l') :
pTz: Tumor limited to the pancreas. more than 2 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 15
Number involved: 0
Gross Description
Received are specimen containers A to h “‘1 "equisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the patient‘s name, . The cassettes and identifiers are
labelled with the surgical Number
A. Specimen is received in formalin. The container is designated "A: Lymph node of group
A". The specimen consists of a fibrofatty soft tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.7 x 0.7 cm. In
consists of four potential lymph node candidates, measuring 0.5 to 1.1 cm in maximum
diameter. Specimen is submitted as follows:
A1. four lymph node candidates
A2. three lymph node candidates

B. The specimen consists of irregularly shaped fragment; 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. There is an
edge that possibly represents the bile duct wall, but no circular structure is present.
Submitted in toto in one cassette.

Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "B: Bile duct margin". The
specimen contains an irregularly shaped fragment of soft tissue, measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x
0.3 cm. There is an edge that represents a possible epithelial duct wall, but no circular
structures present. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

C. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated “C: Whipple's specimen“. It
consists of a Whipple resection specimen including duodenum, head Of the pancreas, and
common bile duct stump. The proximal margin of the specimen measures 6.0 cm in
circumference. The inferior margin measures 5.0 cm (circumference). The duodenum is 25.0
cm in length, 4.5 cm in average circumference and 0.4 cm in wall thickness. The pancreas
measures 3.8 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. The common bile duct stump is 6.1 cm in length and 1.2 cm in
diameter at the margin. The specimen is inked as follows: pancreatic body margin
(distal)~ blue, uncinate process- orange, vessel bed area- black. when Opened, the
duodenal mucosa is velvety and grossly unremarkable. The ampulla of vater is identified
and is Open to show a 1.2 cm diameter ampulla. Serial sectioning of the pancreas reveals
a mass measuring 2.3 x 2.1 x 1.8 cm with non-homogenous white-tan cut surface. The mass
is located approximately 1.2 cm away from the duodenal wall and grossly abutting blue and
orange resection margins. The uninvolved pancreas is pink/tan. Multiple lymph nodes are
identified in the soft tissue around the pancreas, measuring 0.3 to 1.1 cm in greater

dimension. One node shows hemorrhagic changes. Representative sections of the specimen
are submitted as follows:

C1. proximal bile duct margin, cross section

C2 to 4. distal pancreatic margin, posterior to anterior

C5. representative proximal gastric/ duodenal margin

CS. , representative distal duodenal margin

c7/a. mass with uncinate margin

C9. representative section of common bile duct, cross section

C10 to 16. mass with the closest common bile duct (Clo-11 contiguous sections)
C17. ~ uninvolved pancreas

C18. hemorrhagic nodule
C19/20. six lymph node candidates (three lymph nodes each)
C21. two lymph node candidates

D. Specimen is received in formalin. The container is designated "D: Portal vein
margin". It consists of an unorientated fragment of soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3
cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette D1.
Frozen Section Diagnosis
B. Bile Duct Margin:
~ Negative for malignancy.
Reported by: '
Frozen Section Microscopic
B. Prominent inflammation; loss of surface epithelium; and reactive changes in periductal
glands.
Pathologist Comment

The tumor extends into the black inked edge of the specimen designated as vascular bed.

However, a separate portal vein margin is separately submitted (specimen D) which is
negative for malignancy.

( ' Page 3 of3

Accesslon Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

Criteria -
Diagnose DiscrEF'MV

 

