UUID:1§MF530-8A4C -4DC8A-9:BZ-DE1361513220

chA-Fs-AAPQ-ei R Redacted
aien : ‘ . Illllllllllll lllIlI llllllll “III” III Ill"
:11; .2“: lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Gross Description: C: Pancreatic mass: Received is one Whipple specimen composed of a
stomach (10.3 x 10 x 0.8 (wall thickness) cm), duodenum (25 cm in length x .IC‘EDf; '3

A», l \ I!
4 cm in average diameter), gallbladder (11.5 x 4.5 x 2.2 cm), and pancreas (WW’VﬁLi‘L‘f'W‘/bféﬂbd’
N 05' ‘5‘ boo) ,5

5 411.. ya/VLLW’LL— 1M1

margins. The long single blue suture is tumor invading the superior (L951:

gm o/Ib/ﬂ-r

(5.5 x 4.8 x 2.2 cm). The specimen is submitted with five designated

mesenteric vein; the looped blue suture identifies the superior mesenteric
artery margin; the looped black suture identifies the deep radial margin;
the long single black stitch identifies the portal vein margin, and the

pair of double black sutures identifies the pancreatic neck margin.

The stomach has a proximal staple line that measures 8 cm in length. It is
inked black and a representative section is submitted. The lesser
curvature measures 7.5 cm in length, and the greater curvature measures
14.5 cm in length. The serosa is tan and mildly rough but unremarkable.
The attached omental fat measures 8.5 cm in greatest length. The specimen
is opened along the lesser curvature to reveal regular rugae covered by
light tan mucus. The mucosa is tan with a slightly nodular appearance
(average 0.4 cm in diameter). Representative sections of stomach are
submitted.

The pancreas has a rough, yellow, partially cauterized exterior. The neck
margin is inked blue, and the remaining radial margins are inked black.
The five sutures are identified. Perpendicular sections of these margins
are submitted. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a white,

ill-defined, indurated mass in the head ofthe pancreas that extends to

nearly the entire length of the organ. It measures 5 x 3.5 x 2.2 cm. In

the inferior limit, the lesion is surrounded by yellow, partially fibrotic
pancreatic parenchyma. The ampulla is patent to the common bile duct. The
pancreatic main duct is obstructed by the pancreatic mass. However, it is
patent at the pancreatic neck margin. Representative sections are
submitted.

The duodenum has congested red serosa near the pancreas. It is otherwise
unremarkable. The surgical margin is stapled. It is inked black, removed
and submitted. The specimen is opened adjacent to the mesenteric border to
reveal a 1.5-cm open defect with central ulceration that is located between
the pylorus and the ampulla. The ulcer extends into the pancreas. It
measures 1.1 cm in depth from the surface of the mucosa. lt erodes nearly
into the proximal limit of the prominent blue metal stent in the ampulla
that measures 1.3 cm in diameter and 1.3 cm in length. The mucosa
surrounding the ulcerative lesion and the proximal area of the stent is

firm with a slight dusky appearance. There is an adjacent mass next to the
ulcer that measures 1.5 x 0.8 cm to a height of 0.9 cm. It bridges between
the ulcer and the stented bile duct. The mucosa distal to the bile duct is
tan and edematous except for the most distal 11 cm of dusky mucosa.

The gallbladder has red—purple serosa with punctate areas of green. The
attached area is rough with a scant amount of cauterized, yellow-lobular
tissue. It is filled with viscous, red-brown fluid. The cystic duct

measures 1.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. There is a small duct that
measures 0.3 cm in length x 0.2 cm in diameter 1.3 cm distal to the neck.

This is either one of two candidate hepatic ducts or the cystic artery.

Near the insertion of the common bile duct to the pancreas, there is a
circular defect that measures 0.4 cm in diameter. It is not certain if

this is a surgical defect or if this is another candidate hepatic duct

opening. Representative sections are submitted.

Sixteen possible pancreatic lymph nodes are dissected and range in from 0.5
x 0.3 x 0.3 cm to 2.7 x 1 x 1 cm. They are submitted in toto. Six

possible greater curvature nodes are dissected and range from 0.2 x 0.2 x
0.2 cm to 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. They are submitted in toto. No duodenal

lymph nodes were found.

Microscopic Description:

Diagnosis Details: A: Pancreatic duct margin, biopsy:

— Ductal tissue, negative for carcinoma

B: Pancreatic margin, biopsy:

- Pancreatic parenchyma with chronic pancreatitis

— Negative for carcinoma (see comment)

C: Pancreatic mass, pancreaticoduodenectomy:

- Ductal adenocarcinoma invading duodenal mucosa and peripancreatic fat, excised
Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: PANCREAS TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Pancreatoduodenectomy

Tumor site: Head

Tumor size: 5 x 3.5 x 2.2 cm

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, ductal type

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Tumor extent: Other - Small intestine

Lymph nodes: 4/24 positive for metastasis (Regional 4/24)
Lymphatic invasion: Not specified

Venous invasion: Not specified

Margins: Uninvolved

Evidence of neo—adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified

Comments: None

 

