 

 

 

raw,“ . NM. 5;: A. “4.x; .fs'ur-m‘isnlx‘u “Liaise-1,: was.

Itb~o-5
ddynocghcguq“¢ 6kdrnuﬁniwﬂPagel ofS

3580";
' uli>h0

UUID:6867E576-1620-41D7-BC18-25166FE17F81
TCGA-AS-AOGG-DlA-PR Re
lllll 1llllllll

I ll Hllllllll
.n:ra'.:'.m1w.mu)l.).g..|:....m.
lllllllllllllllllllllll Illllll lllllll lllllllllllll #: !

dacted
I) l llllllll ,
.II I
II II

“I |
l lllll

A/s: F
Rec:
C01:
Location:
Pathologist:
Assistant:

Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS: *"‘*ADDEINDUM*’“r

l. RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
—Tubo-ovarian adhesions and adhesions involving serosal surface
of fallopian tube
—Paratubal and paraovarian cysts lined by benign serous
epithelium (hydatids of Morgagni)
-Peritubal endosalpingiosis
-Ovary with atrophic changes and cystic epithelial inclusions
~No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

2. UTERUS, LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, TOTAL ABDOMINAL

HYSTERECTOMY AND LEFT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

—Primary endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, with
villoglandular features, focal superimposed secretory changes,
and possible minor neuroendocrine component, FIGO grade II,\
nuclear grade 2 (see comment)

—Adenocarcinoma extensively involves the endometrium of the
uterine fundus, anterior uterine corpus, and posterior
uterine corpus

—Minimal (focal) superficial myometrial invasion by carcinoma
is present involving less than 10% of the uterine wall
thickness

-No lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by tumor identified
—No extension of carcinoma into lower uterine segment or
cervix

—Parametrial tissues are free of tumor

-No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving ovaries or
fallopian tubes

—Non-neoplastic endometrium shows areas of simple and complex
glandular hyperplasia with varying degrees of cytologic atypia

—Four uterine leiomyomas, one of which is microscopic

—Uterine serosal adhesions

—Monckeberg's medial calcific sclerosis of uterine arteries

-Cervix with chronic inflammation, atrophic squamous changes,
and nabothian cysts

-Right ovary with atrophic changes and a few cystic epithelial
inclusions

—Fallopian tube with serosal adhesion
(COnt:""""1 nn navf- narrat‘

ratory Medicine
Page: 2

3. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
-Eight reactive lymph nodes
-No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/8)

4. LYMPH NODE, DESIGNATED "PRECAVAL PLUS RIGHT COMMON", EXCISION:
—One reactive lymph node

 

hi6)

5;.J2;In¢anLKAM;pV (iSLLl

 

 

 

 

: hwui<~ui°=ml . Jim.

 

Page 2 of 5

—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

5. LYMPH NODES, LEFT COMMON AND LOWER PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
—Two reactive lymph nodes
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)

6. LYMPH NODE, LEFT COMMON [ILIAC], EXCISION:
—One tiny reactive lymph node
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

7. [SOFT TISSUE], LEFT PELVIC, BIOPSY:
. —No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

8. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
—Five reactive lymph nodes
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/5)

9. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT PELVIC, BIOPSY:
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

10. OMENTUM, BIOPSY:

-No evidence of metastatic carcinoma
COMMnmm- Dveliminary findings were discussed with Dr.

_ , Findings in additional routinely stained sections
(slides S ds—l, U ds—l and V ds-l) have been incorporated in the
diagnosis. Immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin and
synaptophysin will be preformed in order to evaluate for a potential
neuroendocrine component to the uterine neoplasm. Results of the
immunostains will be reported in an addendum.

ADDENDUM

A few of the neoplastic endometrial cells exhibit positive staining
for synaptophysin and rare endometrial tumor cells stain positively
for chromogranin; however, most of the tumor cells do not show
snecific staining for these neuroendocrine markers.

HISTORY: Uterine carcinoma

MICROSCOPIC: See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l: RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name designated, "right tube and ovary"
and received in formalin is a salpingo—oophorectomy specimen. The
ovary is atrophic, about 1.3 x 1.1 x 1.1 cm and has a focally shaggy
pink—tan external surface with adhesion focally to the adjacent
fallopian tube. Cut surfaces of the ovary reveal no evidence of
primary or metastatic tumor. The fallopian tube is about 3.0 cm long

»oratory Medicine
Page: 3
and ranges from 0.3 to 0.4 cm in diameter. The fimbriated end of the
fallopian tube is adherent to the adjacent ovary. The serosal
surface of the fallopian tube is pink—tan and shows a few additional
adhesions elsewhere. Cross sections of the fallopian tube reveal a

pin—point patent lumen. The fallopian tube appears grossly free of
metastatic tumor.

Entirely submitted.

A. Ovary and paraovarian tissues — 2

B. Ovary and adherent fimbriated end of fallopian tube — 1
C,D. Fallopian tube — multiple

2: UTERUS LEFT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "uterus left ovary and
fallopian tube" and received fresh in the Operating Room for
intraoperative frozen section is a 70 gram total hysterectomy and
right salpingo—oophorectomy specimen. The uterus is symmetric. The

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of5

uterus measures 6.5 cm from the fundus to the ectocervix, 4.0 cm from
cornu to cornu and a maximum of 3.2 cm from the anterior surface to
the posterior surface. The uterine serosa is pink—tan and shows a
few tiny adhesions and a small amount of adherent blood clot. The
cervix is about 2.5 cm long and has a maximum diameter of 2.0 cm in
the ectocervical region. The mucosa lining the ectocervix is pink—
tan and smooth. The external cervical os is 0.5 cm in diameter and
patent. The uterus is incised on both sides. The cervical
transformation zone is distinct. The endocervical canal is 2.0 cm
long and lined by tan soft mucosa. Cut sections of the cervix reveal
a few minute cystic spaces. The endometrial cavity is about 4.0 cm
long and up to 3.2 cm in width. The endometrium of the uterine
fundus, anterior uterine corpus and posterior uterine corpus is
largely replaced by a soft tan friable exophytic tumor mass that
measures about 4.5 x 3.0 cm in area. The exophytic tumor has a
maximum thickness of about 0.7 cm. Cut sections of the uterus reveal
no grossly evident invasive tumor within the underlying myometrium.
The muscular uterine wall ranges from about 1.0 to 1.5 cm in
thickness. The myometrium is tan and semi~firm. The endometrium
lining the lower uterine segment appears grossly free of tumor.
Within the uterine wall there are three circumscribed intramural
leiomyomas that range from about 0.3 to 0.5 cm in diameter. Each of
the leiomyomas are composed of firm solid tan-white whorled tissue
without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or necrosis. The right
ovary is atrophic, about 2.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm and has a pink—tan
relatively smooth serosal surface. Cut surfaces of the right ovary
are grossly free of tumor. The right fallopian tube has fimbria at
one end, is 4.5 cm long and ranges from 0.3 to 0.4 cm in diameter.
The serosal surface of the fallopian tube is pink—tan and shows a
tiny adhesion. Cross sections of the fallopian tube reveal a patent
lumen, up to 0.2 cm in diameter. The fallopian tube appears free of
tumor. A representative portion of tumor from the uterus was frozen
and sectioned for intraoperative diagnosis. The frozen section
remnants and the rest of the specimen are subsequently fixed in
formalin.

Representative sections.

Remnant of frozen section — 1

Right parametrium — 1

Left parametrium — 1

Anterior uterine fundus with endometrial tumor - 1

Anterior uterine corpus with endometrial tumor - 1

Anterior uterine corpus with endometrial tumor and a leiomyoma - 1

Q H m 0 m m

.aboratory Medicine
-_-—r~~r Page: 4
Anterior lower uterine segment — l
Anterior cervix — 1
Posterior uterine fundus with endometrial tumor and leiomyoma ~ 1
Posterior uterine corpus with endometrial tumor and leiomyoma — 1
Posterior uterine corpus with endometrial tumor — l
Posterior lower uterine corpus - 1
Posterior cervix - 1
Right ovary and fallopian tube - 4

210 W 0 Z 3 F X

3: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right pelvic lymph
node", and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 3.0 x 0.8 cm aggregate of
soft yellow adipose tissue, within which there are embedded several
semi—soft tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from about 0.1 to
0.4 cm in maximum dimension.

Entirely submitted.

S. Three lymph nodes - 3

T. Five lymph nodes — 4

4: PRECAVAL PLUS RIGHT COMMON
Labeled with the patient's name, designated "precaval plus right

 

(

 

.. «a

           

ut.ii.a..., 1...,

» :' ......v..:.e. “.0“ ..o.;l.:.£:__.. mm .1“

 

Page 4 of5

common lymph node" and received in formalin is a 2.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm
aggregate of soft yellow adipose tissue, within which there is
embedded a single irregularly shaped semi—soft tan lymph node that
measures about 1.5 cm in maximum dimension.

Entirely submitted.

U. One lymph node - l

5: LEFT COMMON AND LOWER PERIAORTIC

Labeled with the patient's name, "left common plus lower periaortic"
and received in formalin is a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm aggregate of soft
yellow fatty tissue within which there are embedded two soft tan
lymph nodes. The lymph nodes measure about 0.25 and 0.5 cm in
maximum dimension.

Entirely submitted.

V. Two lymph nodes ~ 2

6: LEFT COMMON

Labeled with the patient’s name, designated "left common" and
received in formalin is a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm aggregate of yellow
fatty tissue, within which there is a single soft tan 0.1 cm diameter
lymph node.

Entirely submitted.

w. One lymph node - 1

7: LEFT PELVIC BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic biopsy" and
received in formalin is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm fragment of soft tan
fibromembranous tissue.

Entirely submitted.

X. l

8: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "left pelvic lymph node"
and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm aggregate of soft
yellow fatty tissue, within which there are embedded three semi—soft

tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes range from about 0.25 to 1.5 cm in
maximum dimension.

boratory Medicine
Page: 5
Entirely SUDmlCCeu. mm
Y. Two lymph nodes ~ 2
Z. Three lymph nodes - 3

9: RIGHT PELVIC BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "right pelvic biopsy"
and received in formalin is a 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm aggregate of soft
tan yellow fibroadipose tissue.

Entirely submitted.

AA. 1

10: OMENTAL BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omental biopsy" and
received in formalin is a 4.5 x 3.0 x 0.3 cm portion of soft tan
lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor.
Representative sections.

BB. 1

Gross dictated by

OPERATIVE CALL

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

SPECIMEN #2, FROZEN SECTION #1. SELECTED SECTION OF TUMOR FROM
UTERUS:

mmua , .4 ., aw?" .' .5: I" 'Ctﬁ',

 

 

   

— Adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, FIGO grade 1, nuclear
grade 2
— Probable superficial myometrial invasion

Special Studies: Frozen Section (x1); additional H&E's (le,Ux1,Vx1)
chromoqranin (H); synaptophysin (H)

See Also:
DATE:
, M.D
Pathologist
I, M D., the pathologist of record, have

personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Finalled-

I, M D., the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this amended report and signed it
electronically.

Date Finalled:

'2“ is
lniuals

.I/i..._l 1 1 IA“... -

 

Page 5 of5

 

