ACCESSION:

PROCEDURE:

PROCEDURE:

ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll

UUID: 54F5151E- 0908- 4007- 9306- 67AA7AC4E804

TCGA-—L5- ABNH- 01A-PR

l IlllllIllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllelllllllcll tad Eli) 0r 3

l
llllllllllllllll|||lllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIII , Q I Wigs 9/40/3

’ Mild
. 5
59%? “”3:

gm [/1 7/l'v)

*iﬂﬁﬂhiﬂiiiiﬁtiiﬁ‘tﬁ

OPER DATE: REG DOC:
VERIFIED BY:

wear-old male with distal esophageal mass showing high grade dysplasia
changes suspicious for invasive cancer. Contained hiatal hernia. 1.5 cm Left
basilar lung nodule, comm bi lo duct dilatation and 2-3 on left renal lesion
suspicious for renal cell carcinoma. ERCP in showed ampullary
adanoma.

VERIFIED BY:

1. ”Left thoracic inlet tracheoesophogeal groove”. 1.9 x 1.7 x 0.6 on
lomloted, firm, white nodule. Bioected.

1A. Frozen section control.

13. Reminder.

Z. 'Retroportal lymph W. Two tan-brown soft tissue fragments, measuring
1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. Both bisected and submitted in
cassettes ZA-B.

PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY

REPORT DATE: PAGE #:
NAME: PATIENT NBR: SEX: M
BIRTNDATE: ADM DATE:

 

 

ACCESSION: OPER DATE: RED DOC:

3. "Gallbladder". A 12.0 cm gallbladder, 4.5 cm in diameter with pink-purple.
unremarkable serosal surface. The gallbladder is filled with amber bile and
has a velvaty, red-brown, unremarkable mucosa. Representative pieces from
mucosa and cystic duct submitted in cassette 3.

4. ”Esophagus and proximal stomach”. An 8.0 cm esophagus, 2.3 cm in diameter
with attached 5.4 cm proximal stanach, closed at both ends with staple

lines. The esophageal mucosa is flattened, pink-gray with a 3.5 x 1.6 cm
fungating, partially ulcerated, tan-brown lesion, 3.3 cm from the proximal
margin of resection. At the level of the gastroeaophageal junction. there is
another 2.2 x 1.6 cm fmgating, tan-brown lesion, 2.5 cm from the distal
margin of resection. Both lesions are raised 1.2 cm from the mucosal surface
of the specimen. Deep radial margin inked black. The mucosal lesions extend
grossly to the level of the muscularis, but do not penetrate into the
surromding fat. It appears that the lesions may be connected at a level deep
to the mucosa. Distal margin of resection inked blue. The surrounding
fibroadipose tissue contains multiple lymph nodes, the largest of which
appears grossly involved.

“-5. Proximal mucosal lesion with deepest extension.

40-0. Distal mucosal lesion with deepest extension. 4c contains interface
between proximal and distal lesions.

AE. Distal margin of resection.

4F. Uninvolved gastric and esophageal mucosa.

loci-1|. Largest lymph node. '

Ill-J. Two bisected lymph nodes each. One node has been inked blue in each
case.

Alt-1.. Four lymph nodes each.

5. "Cervical esophageal margin”. A 1.3 cm segment of esophagus, 2.0 cm in
diameter, closed at one end with a staple line. Cross section submitted in
one cassette. ’

FROZEN SECTION REPORT: .

1A. Lymph node with metastatic adenocarcinoma.

I, _ have reviewed and interpreted the frozen section
material at the time it was requested.

Permanent sections confirm frozen section report.

PROCEDURE: VERIFIED BY:

ESDPHAGEAL, CARDIAC AND GASTROESOPNAGEAL JUNCTION CARCINOHA:

Type of carcinoma: Adenocarcinoma

if adenocarcinoma, is it arising in: G‘E junction otherwise not specified

REPORT DATE '

NAME :
BI RTHDATE :

-———-———-——-——-—-——-—-——

ACCESSION:

PROCEDURE:

PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY

 

PAGE #:
PATIENT NBR: " SEX: i4
ADM DATE:
OPER DATE: . REG DOC:

Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria

number of positive lymph nodes, the total number sampled is irrelevant: 6

Extranodal metastasis: Unknown

Pattern of invasion: lnfiltrative

Esophageal and gastric resection margins involved: No
Deep resection margin involved: No

TNIII classification: TiNiMx

VERIFIED BY:

1. Lymph node, "left thoracic inlet tracheoesophageal groove”, excision: One
lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

2. Lymph node, 'retroportal lymph node”, excision: Two lymph nodes negative
for neoplasm (0/2).

3. Gallbladder, resection: Chronic cholecystitis.
4-5. Esophagus, resection: Invasive adanocarcinoma, poorly differentiated,

5.7 cm, abutting the muscularis propria. Lymphatic invasion present. Margins
negative. Please see template.

1, . 0., the aiming staff pathologist, have personally
examined and interpreted the slides from this case.

Code:

*‘liﬂl’niﬂiﬂiiﬁ‘li *i‘kﬂ

 

Critar‘.
_I)i: nosr.
T

 

F It
ﬂeqfann initials

 
 

 
   
    
   

