UUID:CIBIFAAS-EBlS-ABBB-BBAB-D11511C76060
TCGA-A7-A45F-BlA—PR Rﬁiljllalil'lted

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Sentinel lymph node, right axilla, biopsy: Two negative lymph
nodes (0/2)-
B. Breast, right, excisional biopsy:

Invasive ductal carcinoma, grade 2, size not less than 2.5 cm,
present at the medial and posterior margins; see microscopic
description.

Ductal carcinoma in-situ, grade 2, present at the inferior

margin.
/ CA ' a «3
m' ' D ' t' : ‘ ‘
1croscopic escrlp ion CW, wakﬁ M N05 9530/}

Invasive Carcinoma:

Histologic type: Ductal . .
Histologic grade; 2 flf/c W, IV”; $50.4
Overall grade: 7/9
Architectural score: 3 €7/
Nuclear score: 2 / 3772L'
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (pT2): Not less than 2.5 cm, and possibly as

much as 4.0 cm (invasive carcinoma extends away from the main
tumor mass into the surrounding fat throughout much of the
specimen).
Specimen margins: Invasive carcinoma is broadly present at
the medial and posterior margins.
Vessel invasion: Not identified
Calcification: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ:

Histologic pattern: Solid, cribriform

Nuclear grade: 2

Central Necrosis: Focal

% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): 2%

Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): Absent

Specimen margins: DCIS is at the inferior margin of the
specimen

Calcification: Negative

Comments: Two prior biopsy sites are identified in the mid—portion of
the specimen. There is a confluence of tumor present microscopically
between the two apparent masses formed by the tumor, supporting the
conclusion of a single tumor mass lesion. Additionally, there is
tumor infiltrating around and beyond the tumor mass areas, into the
surrounding fat, and to the specimen margins as stated above. p63
immunostaining performed to confirm the presence of invasive carcinoma
at the margin. E—cadherin performed to exclude LCIS and confirm DCIS
at the inferior margin.

Cytokeratin immunostaining performed on two lymph node blocks to
exclude metastatic carcinoma; stains are negative.

Prognostic markers: See previous biopsy report

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

Specimen
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node
B. Right breast mass, long anterior, short superior — tissue
procurement

Clinical Information
Right breast cancer; year old black female with two side by side
cancers

Gross Description
A. Received unfixed, labeled right axillary sentinel node, are 2
lymph nodes, 0.7 and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension each, entirely
submitted with each lymph node and a separate block (bisected).
B. Received unfixed, and a transparent container, labeled right

breast mass, is a 5.5 x 4.3 x 3.0 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue

with orienting sutures. Margins are inked: Anterior black,
posterior blue, lateral green, and medial yellow. The specimen is

serially sectioned from superior to inferior. There is a 2.5 x 2.5
x 1.5 cm tumor mass, which is somewhat dumbbell-shaped, but appears

to consist of one tumor mass. Sections submitted as follows: 1
superior margin, 2 through 6 superior—most portion of tumor, 7
through 9 transition area of probable second lobe of tumor mass
(contiguous sections), 10 breast tissue intervening between tumor

mass and margin, 11 — inferior margin. Portion of tumor and normal

submitted for tissue procurement, as requested. Additional

sections submitted: RRl intervening tissue between superior margin

and tumor; 2—4 additional superior tissue, 5~7 representative
remaining first half of specimen; 8—14 inferior half of specimen;
15 additional inferior margin.

  
  

 
 

ohm-"mu
Pnrmr » Yumnv sue
rw in

\W

