\ l’

TCGA 48—4083

     

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN{S) RECEIVED

1. Lymph-Node: STlOL TB Angle

2 Lymph-Node: STll Interlobar
3.-Lymph-Node: ST11 Interlobar

4 LUNGS: LLL with resection margins

uraoNosrs
1—3. Lymph nodes, biopsies {STlOL left TB angle, STll interlobar, STll

interlobar):
— Lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (x3)

4. Lung, resection (left lower lobe):
a) Invasive poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, with:

1) Greatest dimension = 4.0 cm
ii) Pleural invasion not identified
iii) Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor
iv) Venous invasion present
v) One lobar lymph node of nine lymph nodes in total, positive
for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/9)
b) Lung with post-obstructive edema, inflammation, and organizing

pneumonia

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Laterality: Left

Tumor Site: LLL

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.0 cm
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologio Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pTz: Tumor with any of the following

'eatures of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension;
iVOlVES main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the

Page: 1 of 4

 

 

 

visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis
that extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung
le: Metastasis in ipsilateral
peribronchial and/or ipsilateral hilar lymph nodes, including
intrapulmonary nodes involved by direct extension of the primary tumor
Lymph node stations

involved: 12L (Left lobar)
' pMX: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma
Direct Extension of Tumor: None identified
-"“nous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Present

terial (Large Vessel) Invasion: Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: Post—obstructive changes
COMMENT

Sections show a poorly differentiated central tumor with focal evidence
of squamous differentiation. The tumor focally invades small venous
vessels. By immunohistochemistry, the tumor stains positive for high
molecular weight keratin, CKS/G, and p63, focally positive for CD56, and
negative for CKT, CKZO, TTF—l, chromogranin, and synaptophysin,
consistent with squamous cell carcinoma. Selected slides from the
patient' 3 previous resection were reviewed for comparison,
and show a squamous cell carcinoma With extensive keratinization that
appears morphologically different from the present tumor. While a
dedifferentiated metastasis cannot be definitively excluded, the present
lung tumor is therefore favored to represent a second primary squamous
cell carcinoma, stage pTZNl.

GROSS DESCRIPTION ‘

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "lymph
:de: STlOL TB angle“. The specimen is received in 10% buffered formalin

and consists of two irregular pieces of brown—tan, focally hemorrhagic,

Page: 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

 

soft to firm tissue ranging in size from 0.8 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm up to 2.5 x
0.6 x 0.4 cm. Cross sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes, the
largest measuring 0.7 cm in diameter. The cut surface of the lymph nodes
is homogeneously tan, focally hemorrhagic and firm. The specimen is
submitted in toto as follows:

in to lo — one bisected probable lymph node per block

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "lymph
node: STll interlobar". The specimen is received in 10% buffered formalin
and consists of two pieces of black to tan, firm tissue; ranging in size
from 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm up to 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm.

.”‘ — specimen submitted in toto

3. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as “lymph
node: STll interlobar". The specimen is received in 10% buffered formalin
and consists of an irregular, brown—tan, firm piece of tissue measuring
1.7 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. On sectioning, the cut surface is homogeneously tan
and focally hemorrhagic. .
3A - specimen bisected and submitted in toto.

4. The Specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as
"lungs: LLL with resection margins". The specimen is received fresh and
subsequently placed into 10% buffered formalin. It contains a left lower
lobe of lung. The overall measurement of the specimen is 17.7 x 11.5 x 6
cm. The pleural surface appears purple—tan and smooth. one dark purple,
congested area is seen within the pleura. Cross Sections of this area
reveal one large. well circumscribed tumour measuring 4 x 4 x 3.7 cm.
Cross sections of the tumour appear homogeneously white—tan, friable and
necrotic in the'centre; tan and firm towards the periphery. The tumour
is located 0.3 cm from the closest pleural surface and approximately 0.8
cm from the bronchial resection line. However, the tumour is seen
invading one of the adjacent bronchi, completely obliterating the
bronchial wall and invading into the lumen. The tumour is located
approximately 0.2 cm from the resection margin of this bronchus. Further
sectioning of the lobe shows a homogenously brown—tan parenchyma with
dilated bronchi, which appear partially calcified. The lumina of the
bronchi show white/tan gelatinous material within them. Multiple
probable lymph nodes are identified, the largest measuring 1.5 cm in
diameter and is located at the hilar region of the specimen.

_ presentative sections are submitted as follows:

as — frozen section block resubmitted

Page: 3 of 4

 

 

 

4a to 4D - representttof tumou pleura

  

 

 

4E to 4G - representative sections of tumour with pleura and hilum
(please note that block 4E contains a mirror image of block 4F)

4H to 4I ~ bisected representative section of tumour showing invasion
into adjacent bronchus

4J to 4K — representative sections of normal lung

41: -
4M —
4N -
4O —
4P -

two probable lobar lymph nodes

one bisected probable lobar lymph node

four probable segmental lymph nodes

one probable subsegmental lymph node

one bisected probably subsegmental lymph node

ease note that three pieces of tumour and three pieces of normal lung
have been taken for tissue banking. Please also note that specimen number
four was examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section on the
bronchial margin in one block.

 

4A—

Negative for malignancy

Page: 4 of 4

 

 

