UUID:E6737FA1-IDEE-4CF3-AE45-6866FF1F7FF4

llllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllIIlIIIIIllIlIEd
mummn
lllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

SPECIMEN(S):

A: Left pelvic lymph nodes

B: Right pelvic lymph nodes

C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vessicles
D: Left common iliac lymph nodes

E: Right common iliac lymph nodes

F: Hernia sac

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A. Left pelvic lymph nodes:

ICD/ a ,3
taxi/W pa’PII/anu MDMIJL 9/50/7
0626!: Ind: Hulda), mfm‘wwﬂt (497,3

n,

/0/l///3__

- Ten benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/10 lymph

nodes).

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes:

- Ten benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/10 lymph

nodesl

C. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles:

— Histologic type: Papillary urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma

Histologic grade: High~grade

- Tumor size: 5.6 x 2.1 cm; Pattern of growth: Papillary. Focal, with

  
     

Criteria

~ Discr
IIYIIIIJIV Tumor Site Discrepanrv
WALL

Prior Malignancy

    
  
 
 
   
 
   
 

  

Case is
Revwwur lumals

extensive carcinoma in-situ
— Location: Left and right, anterior wall.
- Extent of invasion:
- Angiolymphatic invasion: Absent.
- Involvement of prostate: Absent.
- Surgical margins:
- Soft tissue: Negative.
- Urethra: Negative.
- Ureters: Carcinoma in-situ present at left ureter margin.
- Paravesical: Negative.

- Lymph nodes: All negative (Specimens A, B, D, positive/total: 0/23)

- Additional pathologic findings:

- Dysplasia and carcinoma in-situ: Present, multifocal.

— Inflammation: Focal chronic inflammation and previous biopsy site
changes.

- Ulceration: Absent.

D. Left common iliac lymph nodes:
— Three benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy (0/3

lymph nodes).

E. Right common iliac lymph nodes:
— Benign fibroadipose tissue with no evidence of malignancy.

(No lymph node tissue present).

F. Hernia sac:

- Benign hernia sac.

AJCC Staging:
pT3a, pNO, pMO.

G3.

COMMENT:

The tumor represents a high-grade urothelial carcinoma. Sections of the
left side of the tumor show microscopic infiltration through the
detrusor muscle into perivesical soft tissues for a distance of 0.1 cm.
The tumor does not extend to the radial soft tissue margin.

Carcinoma in-situ is present in every section of the bladder and is
present at left ureteral margin. Previous biopsy situ changes are
observed in sections of the trigone. Sections of the prostate show

benign prostatic tissue with no tumor extension.

I have personally reviewed all specimens and or slides, including the
listed special stains, and used them with my medical judgement to

determine the final diagnosis.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

This is a ear-old male with a history of bladder cancer, undergoes

radical cystectomy with attached prostate and lymph node dissection.

GROSS:
Six specimens are received, each labeled with the patient's name and

hospital identification number.

A. Specimen A is designated "left pelvic lymph nodes." The
specimen consists of a 6.5 x 5.2 x 3.2 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated
adipose tissue containing multiple potential lymph nodes ranging in size
from 2.0 to 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. All lymph nodes are removed

and submitted in six cassettes.

B. Specimen B is designated "right pelvic lymph nodes." The
specimen consists of a 6.3 x 5.5 x 2.2 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated
adipose tissue containing multiple potential lymph nodes ranging in size
from 2.5 to 0.5 cm in greatest diameter. All lymph nodes are submitted

in six cassettes.

C. Specimen C is designated "bladder, prostate, seminal

vesicles.” The specimen consists of a 19.2 x 13.1 x 4.5 cm bladder with
associated adipose tissue. The prostate measures 4.0 x 2.9 x 2.8 cm.
The specimen is inked as follows: right hemisphere - blue, left

hemisphere — black. The apical margin is removed and submitted for

frozen section diagnosis as CF51. The remainder of the specimen is open
along the anterior midline revealing a papillary, exophytic appearing
lesion tethered to the anterior aspect of the mucosal surface measuring
5.6 x 2.1 cm, extending 0.5 cm into the lumen. This area is located
approximately 0.2 cm to the right ureteral orifice, 1.2 cm to the left
ureteral orifice, 4.0 cm to the apical margin, and 1.5 cm to the

trigone. Sectioning of the lesion reveals that it inﬁltrates into the

wall. Grossly the lesion is completely excised. The surrounding
mucosal surface has a tan-red appearance. No additional lesions are
present. The prostate is sectioned revealing a fibrotic tan-gray cut
surface. Grossly no lesions are identified within the prostate. The
specimen is extensively sampled in 21 cassettes. No lymph nodes are
identified within the associated adipose tissue. Representative tissue

was procured for potential future studies from specimen C.

D. Specimen D is designated "left common iliac lymph nodes."

The specimen consists of a 2.6 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow
lobulated adipose tissue containing an unremarkable yellow lobulated cut
surface. No lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed. The specimen is

entirely submitted in two cassettes.

E. Specimen E is designated "right common Iliac.” The specimen
consists of a 2.0 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated adipose tissue.
Grossly the specimen is unremarkable. No lymph nodes are grossly

identified. The specimen is entirely submitted in two cassettes.

F. Specimen F is designated "hernia sac."‘ The specimen

consists of a tan-red portion of fibromembranous soft tissue measuring
1.0 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. One surface has a smooth and intact appearance, the
opposite is roughened. No evidence of thickening or complexity is

identified. The specimen is sectioned and submitted in cassette F.

Summary of Sections:

A1—A4 - lymph nodes.

A5 - single lymph node.

A6 - single lymph node.

81-83 - lymph nodes.

BA - single lymph node.

BS-BG - single lymph node (same node).
C1 - portion for frozen section.

C2 — right ureter margin.

C3 — left ureter margin.

C4 -C5 - lesion, right bladder.

C6 - lesion, right ureteral orifice.

C7 - lesion, left ureteral orifice.

C8‘C9 - additional lesion, left hemisphere.
C10 - uninvolved right bladder.

C11 - uninvolved bladder dome.

C12 - uninvolved bladder, left.

C13 - trigone.

C14-C17 - prostate, right hemisphere.

C18—C21 — prostate, left hemisphere.

Dl—D2 — left common iliac lymph node, entirely submitted.
E1~E2 ~ right common iliac, entirely submitted.

F — hernia sac.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS:

CF51: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles - "Urinary bladder, distal
margin at apex of bladder: Negative for urothelial cancer on section

sampled."

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination is performed.

