Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A: Lymph node, 4R subcarinal, resection:
Eight benign lymph nodes.

B: LUNG, Resection:

Specimen: Right Lung; Lower lobe of lung;
Procedure: lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: Right lower lobe
Specimen integrity: Intact
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.4x 2.4cm
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: Present
Tumor Extension: Not identified
Margins:

Bronchial: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Parietal pleural: Not applicable

Chest wall: Not applicable
Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable
If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: less than 1mm

Specify margin: visceral pleura

Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified
Pathologic staging (pTNM):

TNM Descriptors: none
Primary tumor: pT
Regional lymph nodes: pNO

Number examined: 14
Number involved: 0

Distant metastasis: pMX

Additional pathologic findings: Emphysematous changes in uninvolved
lung parachyma

C: Lymph nodes, #9 inferior pulmonary, excision:
Two benign lymph nodes.

D: Lymph nodes, lower paratracheal, excision:
Four benign lymph nodes.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

***Electronically Signed*** ,— —)
,—

Signing Location:

 

Gross Description:
Received are three specimen containers, each labeled with the patient's name,

Part A is received in formalin additionally labeled "subcarinal lymph node" and
consists of multiple red-brown nodular portions of soft tissue, some of which
have a gray-black tinge, grossly consistent with probable anthracotic pigment.
Sectioning of the tissue reveals at least eight probable lymph nodes, which
range from 0.6 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. These lymph node candidates are
submitted as follows:

A1 four whole probable lymph nodes;

A2 three whole probable lymph nodes;

A3 remaining soft tissues with possible additional lymph node for
microscopic analysis.

This specimen has been submitted in its entirety.

Part B is additionally labeled "right lower lobe" and consists of a lobe of lung
with overall dimensions of 15 x 10.2 x 2.2 cm. The pleural surface is

purple-tan to pink-gray with focal gray-black pigmentation. The specimen is
received with a portion of black ink along one side. There are multiple staple
lines present without designation. Additional sectioning reveals a gray-tan to
red-brown, firm, well circumscribed, focally degenerative mass with overall
dimensions of 2.4 x 2.4 x 2.1 cm. This mass is approximately 3 cm from the
bronchial margin of resection. Also this mass corresponds to the overlying
inked pleural surface. The remaining lung parenchyma is red-brown to pink-tan
and spongy.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1 vascular and bronchial margin;
B2 possible lymph node adjacent to bronchial margin;
B3-6 sections of mass;
B7,8 uninvolved lung parenchyma.

Part C is received additionally labeled "inferior pulmonary ligament" and
consists of a single nodular portion of tan-yellow soft tissue, containing two
probable lymph nodes, having greatest dimensions of 0.5 and 0.8 cm. These
tissues are submitted entirely in cassette C.

Part D is received additionally labeled "4R lower paratracheal lymph node" and
consists of a single nodular portion of red-brown nodular soft tissue, which is
5 mm in greatest dimension. This tissue is submitted in toto in cassette D.

—

, —
Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

Taken].-
END OF REPORT

 

