SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De—ldentified Specimen Code: -
Patient Age/Sex -

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: LEFT UPPER LOBE

Part B: LEVEL 1']

Part C: LEVEL 10

Part D: AP WINDOW LYMF’H NODE

Final Diagnosis

1. Left lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (A) - Invasive poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.
- Four (4) peribronchiolar lymph nodes. negative for neoplasm.
— Centrilobular emphysema.

2. Lymph nodes 11, 10, AP window, excision (B-D) - Lymph nodes, negative for neoplasm.

Diagnosis Comment:

Tumor Location: Left upper lobe

Tumor Size: 4.2 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm

Vascular invasion: Absent.

Lymphatic Invasion: Absent

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The visceral pleura is negative for neoplasm.
Pathologic Stage (AJCC): pTZa N0 (Stage lB)

General comment: A p63 immunohistochemical stain shows diffuse strong positivity. A TTF-‘l
immunohistochemioal stain is negative. Overall. these ﬁndings support the above diagnosis.

lntraogerative Diagnosis:
A. Negative for neoplasm.

 

Page 1 of 2

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "left upper lobe". It consists of a 357 gram
iobectomy specimen of the left upper lobe measuring 24.0 x 9.5 x 3.5 cm. The bronchial remnant is
approximately 0.3 cm in length. In the central segment. there is a poorly circumscribed firm gray—white
tumor measuring 4.2 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm with scattered necrosis and hemorrhage that is 2.5 cm from
bronchial margin. The tumor causes retraction of the overlying pleura, but does not grossly invade
through the pleura, which has a smooth, glistening surface. The tumor grossly invades an adjacent
bronchus. The tumor grossly surrounds large vessels. The remainder of the lung is unremarkable. There
are four anthracotic hilar lymph nodes, the largest measuring 1.2 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1~A2 bronchial margin for frozen section, A3 vessel
margins. A4—A5 mass with pleura, A6 bronchial involvement by mass, A7 vessels surrounded by mass,
A8 representative section of mass, A9 uninvolved parenchyma, A10 one possible lymph node, A11
three possible lymph nodes.

B. Received fresh labeled "level 11" are multiple irregular shaped segments of red-gray soft tissue
aggregating to 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

C. Received fresh labeled "level 10" are multiple irregular shaped segments of red—gray soft tissue
aggregating to 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

D. Received fresh labeled "AP window lymph node" are multiple irregular shaped segments of red-gray
soft tissue aggregating to 2.1 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one
cassette.

Microscogic:
(Not Entered}

 

Page 2 of 2

