TCGA -AK - 3450

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right renal mass
Source of Specimen(s):
right Kidney, radical nephrectomy for tumor

Gross Description:
Received in one part.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled # 1, "right kidney”

Gross Description: Received fresh in a container labeled , right kidney". It consists of a
360 grain radical nephrectomy

specimen consisting of kidney measuring 100 x 6.0 x 6.0 cm and
perinephric fat ranging from 0.3 up to 5.0 cm. Dissection through the fat
discloses no obvious lesions, masses or nodal tissue however, there is a
firm bulging mass at the hilum protruding from the kidney. Also at the
hilum there is an 8.0 x 0.3 cm segment of ureter. The ureter is opened
and grossly free of lesions or masses. The kidney is sectioned disclosing
a 4.0 x 3.5 x 2.7 cm soft orange mass having a moderate amount of
hemorrhage and possible degenerative changes. It is difficult to tell
whether the tumor is through the capsule however, the lesion does push
well into the hilum and renal pelvis. The calyceal system and vessels are
uninvolved by lesion. Elsewhere, two small simple cysts [cortical cysts]
containing clear thin ﬂuid are found measuring 0.9and 1.0 cm. Both
cysts are lateral and superiorly in the kidney. Elsewhere, there is some
possible scarring at the remaining parenchyma with well—delineated
cortical—medullary junctions. Representative sections are submitted in

lA—H.

Designation of Sections: lA— vascular and ureter margins, 1B~ tumor in
relationship to ureter at hilum, 1C— tumor in relationship to normal
adjacent parenchyina, lD—lE- tumor in relationship to overlying capsule,
IF— uninvolved kidney with cyst: lG— uninvolved kidney, lH— fat at hilurn

ana***ass***seaas*aasssa*essea*sassesa***easeseassassaaeseeaeaasasserass

Final Diagnosis:

Right kidney:

Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell (conventional) type, Fuhrman nuclear
grade ill/IV.

— The 4.0 cm carcinoma is confined to renal parenchyma.

— Angiolymphatic invasion is not identified.

— Surgical resection margins are free of carcinoma.

Tubular/papillary adenoma.

Renal cortical cysts.

Benign a1terio—arteiiolar nephrosclerosis.

pTNM: Tla N); M};

 

