   

CGA - 66- 2780

Material examined:

Left upper lobe

Clinical diagnosis and question

Non-small—cell bronchial carcinoma of left upper lobe (moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma).
Asbestos exposure.

REPORT ON FINDlNGS
Macroscopy

1.) Left upper lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed left upper lobe measuring 22 x 13 x max. 4.5 cm, central bronchus resection
plane located 0.4 cm proximai to the division into bronchi of the apical group and lingular bronchus. At the
hilus four nodes, 0.5 and 1.8 cm in size. A 3.3 cm long staple suture line runs from the hilus in a cranial
direction. A 7 cm long staple suture line runs from the hilus in a caudodorsal direction demarcating the basis of
an adhesive piece of lung tissue measuring 6 x 1 cm to about 1.5 cm thick (from 86?). Viscerai pleura shows
patchy blackish pigmentation, in the medial region a focal patchy reddish-brown discoloration and in the region
of the hiIus brown to reddish material. At the dorsal margin over S4 pleura shows an approximateiy 4 cm area
of star-shaped retracted tissue. Under this is a whitish, patchy and pale yellowish tumor, max. 4.8 cm in size,
with a partly unclear, partly vaguely arcuate configuration. Truncation of subsegmental branches of B4 and 5 in
the tumor. Questionable inﬁltration in the attached wedge-shaped lung specimen, distance from its staple suture
line 0.6 cm. Other lung section surfaces show patchy blackish pigmentation.

2.) Lobar LN (station 12) left upper lobe: 1.5 cm node.

3.) lnterlobar LN (station 11) left: 1,5 cm node.

4.) Hiiar LN (station 10) left: 3 cm node.

5.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) left: 0.? cm lesioned node with surrounding tissue.

6.) Paraaortic LN (station 6) left: two node parts with surrounding tissue, 1 cm and 0.4 cm.

7.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5) left: 1.2 cm node.

8.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: two node parts with surrounding tissue, 1.2 cm and 0.5 cm.

9.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 1 cm node or node part.

Examined:

1.) 1a: Tumor with pleura,

1b: Tumor with subsegmental branches of B4 and 5,

1c: tumor with attached wedge—shaped piece of lung (in region of staple suture Iine marked orange),
1d:l section S2,

1e: Bronchus and vessel resection margins (tangential),

1f: Hiiar nodes

1 g: ﬁn‘ther section of tumor with attached wedge-shaped piece of lung (in region of staple suture iine marked
orange),

2.)-9.) All material.

15 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS and iron.

 

Microscopy
DeScription of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Intermediate to peripheral, histologically poorly differentiated, large-cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell
carcinoma of the left upper pulmonary lobe mainly located in S4. TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture
p'l? pNO pMX V1 R0, stage IB. C34.l,M8070/3.

Secondary diagnosisfdiagnoses:

Active chronic retention pneumonia at the tumor margin (sample 1.)). Lymph nodes with reactive lesions and
anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 1.) to 9.)). Remark/addendum:

The carcinoma has inﬁltrated the visceral pleura also in the region of the adhesion site with the co—resected
piece from the lower lobe of the lung. The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels, the parenchyma of the
co-rcsected piece from the lower lobe of the lung and all excised lymph nodes are tumor-free.

No asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes. But very much further—reaching investigations,
especially dust analyses, are needed to determine the asbestos exposure of the lung.

 

