CGA-DU—8165

  

Surgical Pathology Report

Med: Rec.: Phone Number:

DOB:
Client:

 
   
  
 

Gender: F
Location:
Taken:
Received:
Reported:

 

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY

—woman experienced recent onset seizure, and on imaging

has a
1.5 cm, left anterior temporal lobe lesion with cystic component and

peripheral enhancement.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Possible brain tumor left temporal lobe

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain tumor, biopsy

PATHOLOGZCAL DIAGNOSIS:

Brain, site not specified, excisional biopsy: Anaplastic
oligodendroglioma.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The sections contain portions of cerebrum that are heavily
infiltrated/effaced

by a neoplastic proliferation of glial cells that have astrocyte—like
phenotype, but with rather uniform round nuclei and frequently with
perinuclear halos. There is brisk mitotic activity, with a high MIBHl
proliferation index of about 30%. There is prominent endothelial
hyperplasia,

and focal microvascular cellular proliferation. There is no tumor
necrosis.

The features are those of an anaplastic oligodendroglioma.

Results of molecular testing are reported below.

 

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA

PCR for EGFR variant III mutation

Date Ordered: — Date Reported: _
Interpretation

NEGATIVE - No evidence of EGFRVIII mutation is detected
Results—Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular
target

in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated
in up

to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant
III

(EGFRVIII) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR

that is
commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of

glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRvIII as defining prognostically

distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRvIII has

been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the

tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin

fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The

CDNA is
then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR

products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this

assay has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal

cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test Was developed and its

performance

characteristics determined by the _ laboratory as

required by CLIA '88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved

for

specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
only in

the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

MGMT Promoter Meth lation
Date Ordered: * Date Reported: _

Interpretation
NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT
promoter

have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.
Assessment of

MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA
followed

by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and
unmethylated DNA

sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by
Serial

dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and
was

assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA.in the background of unmethylated
DNA .

Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the
sample, or

extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated
MGMT

promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance

characteristics determined by the aboratory as
required by CLIA '88 regulations. It as no een c ears or approved
for

specific uses by the 0.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
only in

the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

     
 

Loss of Heteroz osit l , q ssay

Interpretation

POSITIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p is detected.
Loss of one allele noted in one marker on chromosome arm 19q

suggestive of
partial deletion (D19Sll82)

 

 

 

Informative loci are: D181592, D131612, DlSSSZ, DlQSZlS, D198606 and
D1981182

Results—Comments

Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block
DNA extracted from a corresponding blood specimen was used as a normal
reference control.

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA
(baseline)/ Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and lgq. The 3
markers

on 1p are DlSS48, DlSl592, and D18552 (with 018468, D181612, and
DlS496 as

backup markers) and the 3 markers on qu are D198219, D198412, and
PLA2G4C

(with D193606 and DlSSllSZ as backup). All markers are microsatellites
(2 or 4

nt repeats) except PLA2G4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)
polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used
if the

first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or
otherwise

ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each
chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas
with 1p

and 19q deletion.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand—alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its

performance
characteristics determined by the—laboratory as

required by CLIA ‘ 88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved

for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non—neoplastic cells in

the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.

INTRAHOPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A.

 

Brain tumor, biopsy: Glial neoplasm, with abnormal vessels and
mitoses, high

' ical rade (astrocytic?? R/O oligodendroglioma???
ouch
preparation smears performed at—and results

reported to
the Physician of Record.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.

Brain tumor, biopsy

CONTATNER LABEL: tumor frozen and permanent.

FIXATIVE: Formalin. NO. PIECES: several pale gray tan fragments.
SIZE/VOL:

12 x 9 x 3 mm. in aggregate. CASSETTES: l—FS remnant, 2—4—remainder
NS

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates prominent
gliofibrillogenesis by

the neoplastic cells. The synaptophysin and NFP demonstrate overall
tumor

nodules partially surrounded by strands of cerebral tissue, within
which there

may be NeuN—positive scattered non-neoplastic neurons. The p53
protein is

strongly over expressed by virtually all neoplastic cells. With the
MIBel

there is a proliferation index of about 30% throughout the tumor. The
CD34

depicts a rich microvasculature with hyperplasia and microvascular
cellular

proliferation.

ICD—9(s):

 

Histo Data

Part A: ' ' sy

Stain/on Block Comment
FS H/E X 1 1

H/E x l 1

TPS H/E X l l

CD347DA x l 2

 

 

EGFR VIII—curls x l
mGFAP—DA x 1
H/E x l
LOB—curls x 1
MGMT—ourls x 1
MIBl—DA x l
NeuN X l
NFZFll x 1
P5380? x 1
SynapHDA x 1
H/E X l

H/E x 1

*** End of Report ***

s-E-LUNNNNNNNNNN

 

 

 

