TCGA—B3—4103

 

SPECIMEN
Right kidney

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Right renal mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
Received fresh labeled "right kidney" is a 491~gram, 10.5
x
8.5 x 4 cm right kidney with attached, Propaten, 5.5 cm
ureter averaging 0.4 cm in diameter. A moderate amount of
perirenal
adipose tissue was present. No adrenal gland is evident within the
superior perirenal adipose tissue. The capsule is delicate and
strips with relative ease from the underlying cortical surface. On
sectioning there is a wellncircumscribed, spherical, 3.7 cm soft
tan—gold—red tumor centrally in the vicinity of the hilum. The
lesion extends to within 0.1 cm of the inked capsular surface. A
portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma are submitted
for tissue procurement, as requested. The remaining parenchyma is
uniform, red~brown with a well—defined cortical medullary junction
and a maximal cortical thickness of 1.5 cm. Multiple smooth—lined
cortical cysts measuring up to 1.5 cm in diameter are present. No
additional abnormalities are noted. Representative sections are
submitted in 8 blocks, as labeled. RS—S.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Vascular and ureteral margins, 2—4 ~ lesion to
inked capsular surface, 5 - lesion to normal parenchyma, 6 — renal
pelvis, 7 and 8 — random for remainder of specimen documenting
cortical cysts.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma.
Histologic grade (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): 2 of 4

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

and

Primary tumor (pT): The tumor measures maximally 3.7 cm in size

is confined to the kidney (pTla).

Margins of resection: Negative.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Cannot be assessed (pNX).
Distant metastasis (pm): Cannot be assessed (pMX).

Adrenal gland: Not present.

Vascular invasion: Negative.

Non—neoplastic kidney: Arteriolar nephrosclerosis. Benign

cortical

cysts.

4

DIAGNOSIS

the

Kidney, right nephrectomy:

Papillary renal cell carcinoma (Fuhrman nuclear grade 2 of 4).
The tumor is confined to the kidney and does not extend beyond

renal capsule.
Vascular and ureteral margins of resection are unremarkable.

Benign cortical cysts.
Arteriolar nephrosclerosis.

 

——— End Of Report wa—

