Results History suns PATH FINAL REPORT I

Ently Information
Entrv Date and Time Lab Status Entered bv

Fina! result

Component Results

Component

SURG PATH FINAL REPORT

UUID:BBDBABSB-4CZB-4EF9-9590-AFED27C1393F
TCGA-ZP-A904-91 - acted

A PR Red
IllllllIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllll
IIIllllllllIIIIHIIIIIIHllllllllllllllll I
IllllllllllllllllIHIMIlllllllllllmliMllillllllllillilllmllHH

Accession #:

Specimen:
Date of Procedure:
Performing Clinician:

A. Gallbladder
B. Liver FS

Clinical Notes:
Pre-op diagnosis: Liver tumor. E) Fresh tissue saved for
tissue bank.

Diagnosis:

A. Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy:
_ Gallbladder with no pathologic diagnosis.
w Negative for dysplasia or malignancy.

8. Liver, right hepatectomy:

~ Hepatocellular carcinoma, well differentiated
(9.5 cm).

— Parenchymal resection margin negative for
malignancy.

- AJCC Stage (2010): pTl pNX pMX.

w Please see Tumor Characteristics.

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY DISCLAIMER: This test was developed
and its performance Characteristics determined by

It has not been cleared or
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. By placing the electronic signature on this
report, the pathologist certifies that all positive and
negative immunohistochemistry controle were reviewed and
approved.

Ia 51> C) --

3
M08
W WW,
(Electronically signed by) @1154 / $7 7023

Verified: Sm ééwk @5191)
Q4 3 ave/H

— page 1 0m

Tumor Characteristics:
B: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., 2010)
SPECIMEN TYPE:
Right lobectomy
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimension: 9.5
Additional dimensions: 9.

m
x 8.2 cm

00

Accession #:

HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Hepatocellular carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
GI: Well differentiated
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pTl: Solitary tumor without vascular invasion
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pm):
pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
AJCC STAGING (pTNM):
pTl pNX pMX
MARGINS:
Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5.

mm
LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION:

Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion
Not identified

Microsc0pic (Small Vessel) Invasion
Not identified
ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:

Hepatitis (specify type): Macrovesicular steatosis
Gross:
A. The specimen is labeled "gallbladder." Received in

formalin is a gallbladder measuring 7.8 x 2.5 x 1.8 cm. The

serosal surface of the gallbladder is tan—pink to purple,

smooth, glistening. Focal areas of hemorrhage are noted on

the serosal surface. The gallbladder is opened to reveal
approximately 5 cc of dark green—brown liquid bile. The
gallbladder mucosa is dark greenish—brown and velvety. No
discrete nodules or lesions are grossly identified within
the lumen of the gallbladder. No gallstones are present

within the gallbladder. Representative sections, including

the cystic duct margin, are submitted in cassette A.

B. The specimen is labeled "liver." Received fresh for
frozen section is an 885 gram portion of liver, measuring
16.0 x 13.0 x 8.5 cm. The capsular surface of the liver
exhibits a nodular appearance. The capsular surface is
pink—red to light purple, and a mass is seen bulging under

Page 2 of 4

the capsule. The parenchymal resection margin is marked
with black ink, and the specimen is serially sectioned to
reveal a 9.5 x 9.0 x 8.2 cm, relatively well~circumscribed,
light greenish—brown to tan—white to focally hemorrhagic
mass with variegated cut surface. The mass is located 0.5
cm from the closest parenchymal resection margin. Two
representative sections of the mass are submitted for frozen
section. The uninvolved liver parenchyma is dark reddish—

Accession #:

brown. No distinct nodularity is observed in the uninvolved
liver parenchyma. No other distinct lesions or nodules are
grosaly identified. Gross photographs were taken.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette Designation:

Bl~2 Frozen section remnants

83"4 Mass with closest parenchymal
resection margin

BS~8 Additional sections of the mass

89 Uninvolved liver parenchyma

Intraoperative Consultation:
FROZEN SECTION:
81—2. Grade 1 hepatocellular carcinoma.

Microscopic:
Histological examinations have been performed on specimens A
and B.

B. Sections of the liver show a proliferation of
hepatocytes arranged in cell plates that are three to five
cell layers thick. The hepatocytes exhibit granular
eosinophilic cytoplasm, round to slightly irregular nuclei,
prominent nucleoli, and increased nuclear to cytoplasmic
ratios. The cells exhibit moderate pleomorphism.
Occasional dilated sinusoids are seen within the tumor.
Focal pseudoacinar formation is observed. A reticulin stain
highlights the thickened hepatocyte plate.
Immunohistochemical staining shows that the tumor cells are
focally positive for glypican~3. The parenchymal resection
margin is uninvolved by the tumor. The surrounding
uninvolved liver parenchyma is composed of hepatocytes in
lobular configuration composed of cell plates that are one

to two cell layers thick. Mild macrovesicular steatosis is
observed particularly around zone three. Focal mild
periportal inflammation is observed. There is no evidence

of regenerative nodule formation or bridging fibrosis in the
uninvolved liver parenchyma.

Accession #:

Administrative Notes:

CPT:

we» WM ». . w W, ”w. ,‘ M

No charge codes are associated with this case.

Entry Information ‘ ..
Entrv Date and Time Lab Status Entered bv
In process

Reviewer

 

