Criteria

lumor Sile
lllPAA blsrvcpancv
P r

   

UUID : BEC7EEA9-6DEA-4402-A3A1-07EF33D58174
TCGA-A1-AOSB-01A- PR

l|lll|lllllllllllllllllllll|||||l|l|l|lll|ll|llIIIIIIllﬁlcllTllllEEd
I III“ lllll|||||ll|llllll||l||I||l|lllll|l||

/ c I) , a , '3 “
d max/{WI 441%wa agSA‘O 8.9 M/a
% Sf?" J W m; 652"] [Alli/ad"

=_ m

 

w

Final Pathologlc Diagnosis:
A. Sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: No carcinoma in one lymph node (0/1); see
comment.

B. Sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: No carcinoma in one lymph node (0/1); see
comment.

C. Breast, left, wire-guided partial mastectomy:

1. Adenoid cystic carcinoma, SBR Grade 1, 1.2 cm; see comment.
Mlcrocalciflcations involving benlgn ducts.

Atypical ductal hyperplasla.

Apocrine metaplasia.

Biopsy site changes.

Fibroadenoma.

Breast, right, mammoplasty:

Intraductal papilloma.

Sclerosing adenosis.

Apocrine metaplasia.

Microcalcifications involving benign glands.
Microcysts.

WPWNsp mmbgp

 

Page I ol'6

 

 

Surgical Pathology -— WorkinLDraft

6. Skin with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.
7 No carcinoma identified.

 

Breast, left, mammoplasty:

Usual ductal hyperplasia.

Apocrine metaplasia.

Fibroadenoma.

Skin with no significant pathologic abnormality.

S. No carcinoma identified.

Note: This Is an unusual tumor. H&E sections show a relatively circumscribed tumor with large nests
of epithelial cells in a cribriform growth pattern. The stroma is sclerotic. The differential diagnosis
includes adenoid cystic carcinoma or a cribriform variant of invasive ductal carcinoma. A prior core
needle biopsy of the left breast at 6 o'clock ( ) was reviewed.

P‘P’NE‘F“

Immunohistochemlcal studies were necessary to evaluate this case and establish the correct
diagnosis. The following immunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated:

ER: Positive, 2+ staining in 75% of cells.

PR: Negative, no staining in any tumor cells. (internal positive control present)
CD117: Positive.

SMA: Focally positive, relatively high background.

SMM: No myoeplthellal cells present around most nests of tumor cells.

p63: Positive in basalold cells in most areas.

The above lmmunohlstochemlcal stains support a diagnosis if adenoid cystic carcinoma. Although ER
expression is often negative in adenoid cystic carcinoma, the presence of basal cell immunophenotype
(positive p63) and the positive C0117 support this diagnosis. Insofar as adenoid cystic carcinoma
represents a dual population of basaioid and epithelial cells, it may be that this example is somewhat
rich in the epithelial component thus explaining the ER positivity. The above interpretation may also
explain the rather diffuse C0117 staining. The absence of a define myoepithellal layer by the SMM
further supports the diagnosis. We recognize that this tumor was also sent for gene expression
profiling so correlation with those findings for a basaloid expression proﬁle is also suggested.

Drs. _— and w have reviewed selected slides form this case and
concur with the diagnosis of adenoid cystic carcinoma.

Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment

- Laterality: Left.
- Invasive tumor type: Adenoid cystic carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 1.2 cm.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 2.
Mitotic count: 1 mitotic figures/10 HPF.
Tubule/papilla formation: 1.
Total points and overall grade = 4 points = grade 1.
- Lymphatic—vascular invasion: None.
- Skin/nipple: No specific pathologic abnormalities.
- Margins for invasive tumor: Negative.
- Anterior (skin): N/A.
- Posterior: Negative (tumor is > 1 cm away).
- Inferior lateral margin (black ink): Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide C4).
— inferior medial margin (green ink): Negative; (tumor is > 1 cm away, on slide C5).
- Superior margin (blue ink): Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide C3).

- Mlcrocalcificatlons: Present, involving benlgn ducts.

 

-. —

Plne20f6

 

 

 

__ Surgigal Patholggt-Wowraft

- Lobular carcinoma in situ: None.

 

- Lymph node status: Negative.
— Total number sampled: 2.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pTlcNOMX.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein

over~expresslon.
An lmmunohlstochemical assay was performed by manual morphometry on block C3 using the C311 monoclonal antibody to
HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 0 on a scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining Intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene ampliﬁcation. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HER2/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohlstochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show

gene amplification.

In addition to the above findings, several lymph nodes are enlarged with a fairly monotonous
population of small lymphocytes, concerning for lymphoma. Immunohlstochemical stains were
performed to characterize the small lymphocyte population as follows:

— C020: Highlights widely scattered aggregates of small lymphoid cells, consistent with primary
follicles.

- C03: Highlights small lymphocytes predominantly in interfolllcular areas.

- C021: Highlights aggregates of dendritlc cells underlying B cell aggregates, confirming their Identity
as B cell follicles.

- C023: Highlights aggregates of dendritic cells underlying B cell aggregates, confirming their identity
as B cell follicles.

Together, these findings are consistent with a diagnosis of benign quiescent nodes, and argue against
a diagnosis of lymphoma.

 

Dr. -of Hematopathology has reviewed parts A and B and agrees with the above
interpretation.

4
A preliminary diagnosis was given to in Dr. - clinic on Additional
preliminary diagnosis given to - ln ur.-clinic on

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
F51 (A1) Sentinel lymph node #1 (half of the specimen), biopsy: Rare scattered atypical cells.
Cannot completely rule out carcinoma. Defer to permanent. Dn- concurs. (On.

I

F52 (A2) Sentinel lymph node #1 (other half of the specimen), biopsy: Rare scattered atypical cells.
Cannot completelv rule out carcinoma. Defer to permanent. Dr.-concurs. (Dr.—

FS3 (B) Sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: Rare scattered atypical cells. Cannot completely rule out
carcinoma. Defer to permanent. 0n-concurs. (Dr. —i

Clinical History

The patient Is a year-old female with adenoid cystic carcinoma of the left breast vs. ductal
carcinoma. She has an additional lesion, seen on MRI, suspicious for carcinoma. The patient now
undergoes left wire-guided partial mastectomy and sentinel lymph node dissection with bilateral
mam moplasty for symmetry.

Gross Description

 

Page 3 of 6

 

Surgical Pathology -- Working Draft - .

The specimen is received in five parts, each labeled with the patient's name and unit numuer. rafts
A-C are received fresh. Parts D-E are received in formalin.

 

Part A, additionally labeled "1 - sentinel lymph node #1 count = 5900," consists of one soft, ovoid,
red-yellow, irregular, unorlented fibroadlpose tissue fragment that is 3.2 x 2 x 1 cm. It is oriented by
a stitch placed by the surgeon marking the hottest spot. The stitch area is inked blue. Adipose tissue
is removed. Lymph node candidate is bisected. 50% of the lymph node candidate is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis 1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1. The remaining
50% of the lymph node candidate is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 2, with the frozen section
remnant submitted in cassette A2. The remaining adipose tissue is submitted in cassette A3.

Part B, additionally labeled "2 - sentinel lymph node #2 count = 12700,” consists of one soft,
red-yellow, irregular, unorlented, ovoid, oriented fibroadlpose tissue fragment that is 2 x 1.7 x 0.8 cm.
A stitch ls placed by the surgeon marking the hottest spot; this area is inked blue. Adipose tissue is
removed. The lymph node candidate is bisected and submitted for frozen section diagnosis 3, with the
frozen section remnant submitted in cassette BI. The remaining adipose tissue is submitted In
cassette 82.

Part C is labeled "left breast needle localization biopsy."
- SPECIMEN TYPE: Wire—guided partial mastectomy.
- SKIN ELLIPSE: Present.
- NIPPLE: Not present.
- ORIENTATION:

- Double long suture: Lateral, on side with Teifa.

- Short double suture: Superior.

- Short single suture: Inferior, opposite of needle wire.
- INKING (for microscopic evaluation):

- Black: Lateral (Telfa side).

- Green: Medial (side opposite wire needle).

- Blue: Superior (side with wire).
- SIZE OF SPECIMEN:

- Medial-lateral dimension: 6 cm.

- Superior-inferior dimension: 6 cm.

- Anterior-posterior dimension: 11.2 cm.
- TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: 19.

- First slice (slice 1): Anterior margin (skin).

- Last slice (slice 19): Posterior margin.
- GROSS PATHOLOGY: 0n serial sectioning, multiple nodules are identified throughout the breast
parenchyma. A dominant, rubbery/hard, tan-pink mass is identified in slices 3-4 and measures 1 x 1
x 0.8 cm. This mass is located centrally within the slices and is located 1.1 cm from the blue ink, 1
cm from the green ink, and 1.5 cm from the black ink. Two tan-white rubbery nodules are seen in
slice 5; one nodule measures 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm and is 0.7 cm from the blue ink. The other nodule
measures 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm and is 0.2 cm from the blue ink. A tan-yellow rubbery nodule is
identified in slice 7-8, measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. In addition, a white-tan rubbery nodular area is
seen in slice 8, abutting the black ink and measuring 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. A white-tan rubbery nodule
is also seen in slice 9. abutting the blue ink, and measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. An additional hard,
tan-pink nodule is seen in slice 9, measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. A tan-white rubbery nodule is seen
in slices 15-16, measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. This nodule ls suspicious for a lymph node. The needle
tip is present in slice 15. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette C1: Skin (slice 1).

Cassettes C2-C5: Dominant mass in slices 3-4, entirely submitted.
Cassette C6: Larger nodule, slice 5.

Cassette C7: Smaller nodule, slice 5.

Cassette C8: Nodule, slices 7-8.

Cassette C9: Noduiar area in slice 8, abutting black ink.
Cassette C10: Both nodules in slice 9.

Cassette C11: Nodule, slice 11.

Cassettes C12-C13: Nodule, slices 15-16, entirely submitted.

 

Page4 of 6

 

Surgical Pathology . — Working Draft

Cassettes C14-C15: Posterior margin, perpendicularly sectioned-

 

Part 0, labeled “right breast tissue and skin," consists of one fragment of fibrofatty tissue with
attached skin and multiple other fragments of skin and ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring, in aggregate, 13 x
10 x 3.5 cm and weighing 170 gm in total. The fragments of skin are grossly unremarkable, with no
suspicious lesions or areas. A single tan-yellow nodule measuring 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm is noted in one
of the fibrofatty tissue fragments, which also contains an area that is mostly ﬁbrous. The largest
fibrofatty tissue fragment with attached skin, measuring 11.5 x 9.2 x 3.5 cm and the skin ellipse
measuring 8 x 7 cm, contains a single white-tan, rubbery, nodular area measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.
The rest of the specimen is grossly unremarkable, with no other su5picious lesions seen.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette 01: 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm nodule from ﬁbrofatty tissue fragment.

Cassette 02: Fibrous area from fibrofatty tissue fragment.

Cassette 03: Nodular area from largest specimen.

Cassette 04: Representative section skin and fibrofatty tissue from largest specimen. ,

Part E, labeled "left breast tissue and skin," consists of multiple fragments of fibrofatty tissue, as well
as multiple fragments of skin, in aggregate measuring 6.5 x 6.5 x 2.2 cm and weighing 154 gm in
total. The skin fragments are grossly unremarkable, with no suspicious areas or lesions seen. One
fibrofatty tissue fragment contains a tan-white, lobulated, rubbery, nodular area measuring 1.2 x 1.1 x
1 cm. The rest of the fibrofatty tissue fragments are grossly unremarkable, with no suspicious lesions
or areas seen. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

 

Cassette El: Representative section of skin.
Cassettes E2-E3: Nodule in fibrofatty tissue fragment. entirely submitted.
Cassette E4: Representative section of ﬁbrofatty tissue.
‘ll’athology Resident “Pathologist
Signed:

Fee Codes:
Other Specimens

___Speclmeu Clan: ‘ Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: Consult. Surgical w! blocks or tissue
Fl a in o s

Review 0’ ‘ from _ ..

Left breast, 6 o'clock, core needle biopsy: Malignant neoplasm with cribriform growth

pattern: see comment.

“MD

—MD

- _Spccimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

 

 

Specimen(s) Received: Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration

Figal Qiagnosis
Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Fibroadipose tissue, see comment.

 

 

Page 5 of6

Sugical Pathology -Working Draft _

__Spccimcn Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

 

 

....-.

Specimen(s) Received: Left breast, needle core biopsy 5:00. 5cm from nipple

Final Diagnosis
Left breast, 5:00, 5 cm from nipple, needle core biopsy:

1. Fibroadenoma with microcalcifications see comment.
2. Fat necrosis.

 

 

 

 

END OF REPORT Page 6 of6

