UUID: 70751458- ASCE- 4BD5- 5383- 8C96F1718696

TCGA- -v-4 -A9ET- 91A- PR Redac ICE 0 3
I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIICIIad

I
411 I LL
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII lIlllI'Il'II'" 73%,”? 4444452224

ll
ll
§ail W cm a
mag €444

Macroscopy - i (ﬁx) :2 // 62//4

Enucleation of the right eye

The eyeball measures 26 mm in diameter with a segment of optic nerve of 5 mm. At
the section, a tumor located at the inferior part of the eyeball and measuring 18 mm
is observed. Tissue specimens are taken for cryopreservation prior ﬁxation.

M doc
Microscopy 5:? P” (I ¢$W1mmwa I?»

The tumor observed macroscopically presents the histological aspect of an uveal
melanoma. This tumor is composed of epithelioid (50%) and of fusiform cells (50%).
The cell atypias are severe. Presence of melanin. The mitotic activity is low (2
mitoses per 10 HPF). There is a focal inﬁltration of the ciliary body and of the inner
part of the sclera, on a thickness of about 1 mm. The tumor is at distance from the
optic nerve which is free on its entire course. The cut end of the optic nerve and the
meningeal sheath are also free of tumor.

Conclusion

Uveal melanoma composed of epithelioid and of fusiform cells.
Tumor size: 18x10 mm main lines.

Mitotic activity: low

Focal tumor inﬁltration of the ciliary body and of the 1/3 inner part of the sclera, on a
space of about 1 mm. without extra-scleral extension.

Optic nerve on its entire course, optic nerve cut end and meningeal sheaths free of
tumor.

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4.00

 

 

 

 

W5; The TCGA Pathologlc Diagnosis Discrepang; Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnOSis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site [TSS]: ....._ TSS Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: __ _
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenCIinlco}: __ Completed Date: _.
Inlagnosts information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working instructions
. - . » Provide the diagnosis/ hismlcgic subtype (5] docu mented on
Pathologlc Diagnosis 50% ﬁnale“ Did cells the initial pathology report for this case. 1fthe histology for
1 Provided an Initial this case is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report 50% spindle cells
- - . Provide th histolo c features selected on the TCGA Case
$:t°;°g}§ef::t;::§f 6 180% spindle cells Quality Cogtrol Fagin completed for this case.
5 mp
2 for TCGA, as reﬂected 1-30% epithelioid cells
on the CQCF.

 

 

Discrepa ney between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 Provide the reason for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy The section of the frozen sample used for sending P?th°l°ln’ “9"“ I" this “3‘ is “m ““53““ mm the
between the pathology to ‘l‘CGA corresponds to a section of the tumor diagnose 5919““ ”than“ Case Quality Control Form
report and the TCGA where the epithelioid part is predominant.

Case Quality Control A .
Form. The percentages mentioned on the inmal
Pathology Report correspond to an average on the
whole embedded sections. used for establish the
Pathology Report.
Name of T85 Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or f“ TCGA
Biorepository Director V

 

I acknowledge Mat the above luﬁrmation provided by my institution is true and «manna has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution ls true and correct and has been quality controlled. mituemﬂng Pathologist or the
Deparaneut Cincinnati has been informed or is aware ofthe above dimpaucy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

