UUID: CCBIBDQD- 3676- 46FA- AD6C- 1.34.9256R61l537ac
TCGA- A3- ABON- 01A- PR

iii'iii"'"'"i'"ii""'i'.i'.lllIlillili'i'l'i'iiil"'“i

DOB: Age: Gender:M
Ref#: Hos #:

 

Date of Service: Date Received:

 

Date Reported:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

KIDNEY, LEFT. RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY:

- CLEAR CELL RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, WITH SOLID AND CYSTIC AREAS.
- Tumor ls 3.3 cm in maximum dimension.
- Fuhrman nuclear grade: 2.
- Tumor extends into perinephrlc adipose tissue, but not beyond Gerota's

fascia.
- MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.
- ADRENAL GLAND UNINVOLVED BY TUMOR.

PATHOLOGIC STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, Fuhn'nan nuclear grade 2.
Primary tumor: pT3a (tumor extends into perinephrlc adipose tissue, but not
beyond Gerota's fascia). __
Regio’nal lymph nodes: pNX. 1.0.1) ’0' WE

Distant metastasis: pMX. 0W $6107 5
Pathologic stage: III.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified. 6h ©L€$2 HOS 8.10 14.67

Margin status: R0. A I” [/14

Case #:

Page 1
Printed:

This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Tumor Staging Information

(data derived from current specimen, staging In accordance with or modified from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, February 2011)

Specimen type:
Procedure:
Specimen laterality:
Tumor site:

Tumor size:

Tumor fooality:

Macroscopic extent of tumor:
Histologic type:

Sarcomatoid features:
Tumor necrosis:

Histologlc grade:
Microscopic tumor extension:

Margins:
Lymphovascular invasion:

Pathologic tumor staging:
Primary tumor:

Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:
Pathologic stage:
Margin status:

Kidney.

Radical nephrectomy.

Left.

Middle portion of kidney.
Greatest dimension:3.3 crn
Additional dimensions: 3.2 x 2.8 cm.
Unifocal.

Tumor limited to kidney.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
Not identified;

Not identified.

Fuhrman nuclear grade 2.

Tumor extends into perinephric adipose tissue, but not
beyond Gerota's fascia.

R0.
Not identified.

pTSa (tumor invades perirenal fat, but not beyond
Gerota's fascia).

pNX.
pMX.
Ill.

R0.

 

 

Source of Specimen:
Left Kidney nephrectomy

Clinical matey/Operative Dx:

Case #: -

Page 2
Printed

This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

_ Patient:

 

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Renal mass

Gross Description: .

The specimen ls labeled left kidney and is received in formalin. It consists of a nephrectomy specimen
which together with perinephric fat weighs 446 grams. it measures 17.5 cm from superior to inferior, 9 cm
from medial to lateral, and 4.5 cm from anterior to posterior. Along the medial-superior edge of the
perinephric fat there is a intact appearing 6.5 x 3.5 x 1 cm portion of adrenal gland. Along the anterior
surface of the kidney there is a thin delicate membranous tissue consistent with Gerota's fascia
approximately measuring 10 x 5 cm. The central-lateral surface of the nephrectomy specimen ls torn and
disrupted exposing the cortical surface of the kidney which is bulging. Serial sections of the adrenal gland
reveal no gross evidence of tumor involvement. At the hilum of the kidney the renal artery and renal vein
are identified. The vessels are opened and there is no gross evidence of intraluminal tumor. Extending
from the hilum of the kidney is a small caliber portion of ureter which is 6.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in
diameter..The ureter is opened to the renal pelvis to reveal the urothelium is tan-white and smooth and
unremarkable. Sectioning through the central-lateral surface of the kidney reveals a well circumscribed
golden yellow and thinly capsulated appearing neoplasm which overall measures 3.3 x 3.2 x 2.8 cm. This
neoplasm abuts the cortical surface of the kidney but grossly does not appear to extend through the renal
capsule into the small amount of adherent perirenal adipose tissue. The neoplasm is 3.5 cm from the
hilum and hilar vasculature. There is some cautery and cavitation of the renal parenchyma just along the
superior edge of the tumor suggestive of surgical manipulation. There is some hemorrhage extending
into the hilar fat. The kidney away from the neoplasm has a normal reddish brown appearance and the
cortical medullary junction appears distinct. The cortical thickness is 0.7 cm. Close sectioning of the
remainder of the kidney reveals no additional masses. The perinephric adipose tissue is dissected but no
lymph nodes are identified grossly. Also in the specimen container is an additional 7.5 cm aggregate of
lobulated fatty tissue which is serially sectioned and palpably unremarkable. Representative sections of
the tumor are obtained for research purposes. Following fixation the sections are submitted as
summarized below: Section summary: A1) surgical margin, renal artery, renal vein and ureter, A2)
adrenal gland, A3) additional sections of ureter and ureteral pelvic junction, A4) Gerota's fascia, A5—A7)
sections of central-lateral tumor and cortical surface of kidney, A7-A8) sections of tumor and immediately
adjacent renal tissue. Additional section of tumor adjacent to the renal sinus was submitted in A10, and
an additional section of renal artery and renal vein are submitted in cassette A11.-

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

Case #:
Prior
Printed:

Reviewer

 

