 

 

 

Collected:
Received:
Reported:

 

 

 

DI G .
A. Lymph node, interior pulmonary ligament, excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in one a‘nthracotic lymph node (011).

B. Lymph node. hilar; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in three anthracotic lymph nodes (DIS).

C. Lymph node. intertobar‘. excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in four anthracotic lymph nodes (0/4).

D. Lung. left lower lobe: lobectomy;
Specimen type. procedure:
Tumor Characteristics:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Location of tumor: Left lower lobe.

Size: 3.3 x 3.0 x 2.7 cm.

Grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated.
Pleural invasion: No.

sheet-aw—

Lymphovascular Space invasion: No.
Surgical Margin Status:

Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 2.8 cm.
2. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.1 cm.

Lymph Node Status
1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: Fourteen.

a. One inferior pulmonary ligament node. see specimen A.
. Three hiiar nodes, see specimen B.
. Four intertobar nodes. see specimen C.
. One peribronchial node.
. Two AP window lymph node, see specimen E.

f. Three Subcarinal nodes. see Specimen F.
2. Total number oflymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0/14).

Other:

. pTNM stage: pT2 ND Mx.

.—

(139.05”

_5.

[TI

. Lymph node, AP window; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in two lymph nodes (0/2).

F. Lymph node. subcarinal; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in three lymph nodes (0/3).

 

 

 

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Left lower lobe lung cancer. biopsy proven at t
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

. inferior pulmonary ligament lymph node
. i-lilarlymph node

. lnterlobar lymph node

. Left lower lobe node

. AP window lymph node

. Subcan'nal lymph node

11m00ﬁ3>

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The ﬁrst container A is labeled . rs. #1. The specimen consists of a gray tan nodule measuring 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm consistent with a lymph
node. The lymph node is bisected and entirety submitted in a single cassette

B. The second container B is labeled #2. The specimen consists of a brown tan tissue that on sectioning reveals three possible lymph
nodes measuring from 0.9 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in a single cassette ’

C. The third container C is labeled i3. The specimen consists of live brown tan nodules consistent with lymph nodes. 0.5 to 2.5 cm in
greatest dimension consistent with probable lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes ‘ s as follows: four probable
lymph nodes-4; one probable lymph node bisected-2.

D. The fourth container D is labeled . left lower lobe. The specimen consists of a lung Iobectomy specimen measuring 16.0 x 11.0 x 3.0 cm
and weighs 132 grams. The pleural surface is brown fan to gray tan anthracotic. The pleura has been inked. Sectioning reveals a circumscribed gray
tan slightly anthracotic mass measuring 3.3 x 3.0 x 2.7 cm that is within 0.1 cm of the pleural margin and 2.8 cm of the bronchial margin. There is no
stapled edge Identiﬁed. The surrounding lung tissue is brown ten to red tan and spongy. There are no other lesions identiﬁed. There are no | rn h
nodes noted within the peribrcnchial soft tissue. Recoruml with the specimen are two cassettes. one green and one yellow, labeledﬂ
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes ’ follows: sections from the mass-4 to 4: bronchial and vascular margin-6:
representative sections from the uninvolved lung-6. ‘

E. The ﬁfth container E is labeled .#5. The specimen consists of four brown anthracotic nodules consistent With lymph nodes measuring
from 0.5 to 2.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes ‘ as follows: three probable nodes-4; one probable node bisected-
-2 and 3. '

F. The sixth container F is labeled . #6. The specimen consists of a brown tan portion of soft tissue measuring 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm that on
sectioning reveals three possible lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 to 1.3 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes eas

 

 

 

