‘ -935D-4A22-957D-359C2647589F
UUIDAAMSME R Redacted

IlllllllIIIIIIIIIIIliIIIIIIIYIIIIIIIITIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

IlllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllll
‘I‘l‘l i“Il‘li‘l‘il‘hllilll‘wlulllillIIIII | Illllllll || IIIIIIIII I III ”II

  

        
 
   

_ 1,...th ‘WN—w—M

rINAL nmonosrs
A) Thyroid. left lobe, lobectomy: Papillary carcinoma (6.5 cm).

B) Trachea, superior margin, biopsy: Negative for tumor.

C) Lymph nodes, right anterior neck. dissection: Four of seven lymph
nodes involved by metastatic papillary carcinoma (see Comment).

Comment: The largest metastasis measures 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.

D) Lymph nodes, right posterior neck. dissection: Six of thirty lymph
nodes involved by metastatic papillary carcinoma (see Comment).

Comment: The largest metastasis measure 3.6 cm in greatest dimension.

E) “Residual thyroid tumor”, resection: Papillary carcinoma (4.5 cm),
extending beyond the thyroid capsule to invade the trachea. Three of
three lymph nodes involved by metastatic papillary carcinoma.

E: Thyroid Gland
HISTOLOGIC TYPE: / c A ~ 0 ’3
Papillary carcinoma . fir/7C raw/3
TUMOR FOCALITY: WWNF‘P‘ “M7 ' .
Unifocal 5.7%. «. WV, M“ 073- ‘1
TUMOR SIZE: $27,;
Greatest Dimension: 6.5 cm
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

 

 

Netapplicahle

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT4a: Moderately advanced disease. Tumor of any size extending
beyond the thyroid capsule to invade subcutaneous soft tissues, larynx,
trachea, esophagus or recurrent laryngeal nerve

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pN1 b:Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervical (Levels

L Ii? WLWoueuopharyngeaLoLsupedoLmediasﬂnaUymphnodeww

 

(Level VII).

 

13

NUMBER OF LYMPH NODE(S) EXAMINED::
40

LYMPH NODE. EXTRANODAL EXTENSION:
Not identified

DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
Not applicable

MARGINS:
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
TUMOR CAPSULE:
Partially encapsulated
TUMOR CAPSULAR lNVASION:
Present:

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Not identified

EXTRATHYROIDAL EXTENSION:
Present

— a”
- ~clccironic Signatum~

SPECIMEN RECEIVED
A) LEFT THYROID LOBE. FIS
B) TRACHEA, SUPERIOR MARGIN, F/S
C) RIGHT ANTERIOR NECK CONTENTS
D) RIGHT POSTERIOR NECK CONTENTS
E) RESIDUAL THYROID TUMOR

FROZEN SECTION
A) Left thyroid lobe: Papillary carcinoma.
Seen with “.
”

 

B) Tracheal superior margin: Negative for tumor.
*

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A) Received fresh for frozen section labeled "left thyroid lobe" is a 79.3-g unoriented
left thyroid lobe measuring 7.5 x 7.0 x 4.0 cm. The capsule is purplelred with
multiple ﬁbrous adhesions. The capsule is entirely inked black. Serial sectioning
reveals a 6.5 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm cystic lesion ﬁlled with tan/pink solid papillary
excrescences. Portions of the mass wall are white/gray, thickened and ﬁbrotic.
Touch preps of the mass are made and a representative section submitted for
frozen section diagnosis and is subsequently submitted as A1. The remainder of the
thyroid parenchyma is purple/red. dense and unremarkable. Representative
sections are submitted as follows: A2 representative mass to normal thyroid, A3
through A7 representative mass and cyst wall. A8 representative thyroid. A portion
of the tissue is submitted for research study *

B) Received fresh for frozen section diagnosis labeled "trachea, superior margin" is
an unoriented, irregular fragment of red/tan soft tissue measuring 0.3 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis and
subsequently submitted in B1.

C) Received in formalin labeled "right anterior neck contents" is an unon‘ented
irregular fragment of yellow/pink/gray ﬁbmfatty soft tissue measuring 7.5 x 4.7 x 1.2
cm in aggregate. There is a small amount of red/brown skeletal muscle adhered to
the specimen. Eight possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.2 to 1.5 cm
in greatest dimension. The nodes are entirely submitted as follows: Ct largest
lymph node bisected, CZ four possible Intact lymph nodes, C3 three possible intact
lymph nodes.

"' ' "' 365x50x23

cm aggregate of yellow/brown lobulated adipose tissue. Multiple possible lymph
nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.2 to 3.6 cm in greatest dimension. Serial
sectioning of the two largest lymph nodes reveals tan/white/pink papillary. solid and
cystic foci. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as follows: DI through D4
paired sections quadrisected largest lymph node, 05 through D9 second largest
lymph node serially sectioned (paired sections), D10 two bisected nodes (one is
dotted orange), D11 ﬁve possible intact lymph nodes, D12 six possible intact lymph
nodes, D13 six possible intact lymph nodes, 014 ﬁve possible intact lymph nodes,
DIS ﬁve possible intact lymph nodes.

E) Received in formalin labeled "residual thyroid tumor" is a 28-9 (formalin ﬁxed)

       

unoriented portion of thyroid (6.0 x .5 x 2.0 cm) attached to a C—shaped portion of
trachea measuring 3.9 cm in length by 2.4 cm in diameter. There is a small amount
of adherent red/brown skeletal muscle on the anterior surface of the thyroid. The
thyroid capsule is purple/red with ﬁne ﬁbrous adhesions. The mucosa lining the
trachea is tan/pink, nodular and appears to be involved by mass. The thyroid and
anterior trachea are inked black. The superior tracheal margin is inked orange and
the inferior tracheal margin is inked blue. Serial sectioning of the thyroid lobe
reveals 4.5 x 2.9 x 2.7 cm gray/whitelpink ﬁrm nodule that isextending into the
tracheal cartilage. The mass abuts the thyroid capsule. There is only a scant
amount of red/brown, dense nonnal-appearlng thyroid present. Representative
sections are submitted as follows: E1 perpendicular sections of mass invading
trachea to include superior tracheal margin. E2 representative sections of mass
invading trachea to include inferior tracheal margins. E3 and E4 paired sections
bisected full-thickness section showing mass to trachea. E5 through E7
representative mass, E8 representative mass to adjacent normal thyroid tissue. E9
two intact and one bisected possible lymph nodes (the bisected lymph node is
dotted orange).

CLINICAL INFORMATION
THYROID MASS

 

 

  
 

‘JIIEHI ' .zt.
Jiaguezls Discrepancy

>va Irv tumor site Discrepancy 'a

1IFAA Discrepancy —ﬂ

’rler Malina»: iii -

W A .
)uallSvnchron -u ‘ mrwm'f‘mﬁ"? ll,
‘WM‘I 11'2"”- All

     

 

