 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
Dale of Report:
Account #:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

 

 

.TCGll—BP—4970

 

Clinical Dia nosls & Histor :'
iii a 3.8 right lower pole renal mass.

3 ecimens Submitted: _
i: SP:l<idney. right, total nephreotyomy‘
on

 

 

2: SPzPerihllar lymph node. right. excisi

 

DIAG NOSIS:
1. SP. Kidney. right, total nephr‘ectyomy-
Tumor Type:
Rene! cell carcinoma- Conveniienei (clear cell) type
the tumor is parliaiy cystic

Fuhrmen Nuclear Grade: I
Nuclear gred e li‘lilV

Tumor Size:
Greeiesl diameter is 3.5 cm.

Loeei invasion (for renal conioai types):
Not ldeniiiied
the tumor abuts the renal sinus

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neopieslic Kidney:
A smell (0.5 cm) renal medullery ﬁbrome is present

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Free of tumor '
Number of meiestalic node-3:2

Staging for renal cell caroinome/oncooytoma:
pTl Tumor <= ‘r’ 0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

- _..... .0..- .e.--

2. SP: Perihlier lymph node, right excision-:
Lymph Nodes:

 

Page 1 of2

 

 

Not identiﬁed
Benign libroadipose tissue

........................................................

iATtEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS ES BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMENATEGN OF THE SLlDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERML}. AND THAT i HAVE

REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

 

 

Gross Description:
—

1). The specimen is received fresh labeled "right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vesSels and
perinephric tat weighing 253 g in total. The kidney measures 12.5 x 8.0 x 4.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 1.5 cm in length
and 0.4 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 1.0 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter
margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal 3.5 x 3.0 x
2.2 cm well circumscribed mass inlthe lower pole adjacent to the renal sinus. The cut surface of the mass is solid and cystic. tan
yellow and hemorrhagic. A second 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm lan nodule distal to the ﬁrst mass is identiﬁed with a ﬁrm cut surface.
Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyrne. with a well-deﬁned ccnlco-medullaryjunction. The
cortex measures 0.? cm and the cetyces appear normal. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent
sections. '

Summary of sections:

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins
“ti— tumor

T2 — second nodule

Tl-iF— tumor with hitar fat

TSF —~ tumor with sinus lei

TK -— tumor with adjacent kidney
RP — representative of kidney

2). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “right perihiiar Maw portion of adipose tissue. No

lymph node identiﬁed. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U- possible lymph node.

Summary of Sections:
Part1: SP:Kidney, right. total nepbrectyom-

Block Sect. Site PCs
F13

t

t2
lhf
tk
tsf
uvm

ANNNAWN
ANNN—AQN

Part 2: szPerihilar lymph node, right, excision-

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 u 2

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

 

