:AZBB513F -%15-aTDC-A125-613A99BDDEC7 1:53.30 ,5
uum TCGA-P3-A6T3-01A-PR Redacted . (
|||||ll|||||l||l|||||||||||ll|||l||||||l||l||||lll|||||I||l|||||Ill W 4%
“l“um““wm”“M'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ,u 307/ A3
Ill |l||||I||||l|||||||||||||ll||| S ”12: dog ,7

CASE: RECEIVED: /q// 3

  

CLINICAL DATA:
Composite resection, left arm free flap, oral cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A) Received fresh designated "right level II" is a 2.1 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm piece
of fibrofatty tissue, which is bisected parallel to the long axis. Specimen
has a pale tan cut surface. Entirely submitted in Al.

B) Received in a container of formalin labeled "m, right neck dissection"
is a 10 x 4.8 x 2 cm yellow lobulated portion of fibrofatty tissue. There is
a double suture attached to the level II region and a single suture attached
to the level IV region. The specimen is sectioned and in the level II region
there is a 4.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm tan lobulated salivary gland. It is serially
sectioned and has tan lobulated cut surfaces. No masses or lesions are
identified. The specimen is divided into levels II, III, IV, and V. In the
level II region there is a 2 X 2 x 1 cm previously incised tan—gray friable
apparent grossly involved lymph node. The remaining regions are sectioned
and have fibrofatty cut surfaces and numerous candidate lymph nodes are
identified ranging from 0.1—2.5 cm in greatest dimension. No additional
metastatic disease is grossly appreciated. Representative sections are
submitted as follows: Bl — salivary gland; BZ - sections of grossly involved
level II lymph node; B3 - two level II bisected lymph nodes, one inked blue;
B4 — three level III candidate lymph nodes; BS — seven level IV candidate
lymph nodes; B6 - one bisected level IV lymph node; B7 - four level V
candidate lymph nodes; B8 - four level V candidate lymph nodes; B9 - one
bisected level V lymph node; B10 - one bisected level V lymph node.

C) Received fresh designated "right level V" is one piece of yellow
fibrofatty tissue measuring 4 x 2 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is examined for
potential lymph nodes and seven potential lymph node candidates are
identified. The largest candidate is inked black and bisected, and all lymph
node candidates are submitted in cassette Cl.

D) Received fresh designated "inferior margin" is a 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm
piece of whitish red fibrous tissue, which is inked black and entirely

submitted for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted
in cassette

E) Received fresh designated "right composite resection, single stitch
anterior lateral, double stitch posterior medial" is a 5.8 x 5.2 x 5.4 cm
composite resection including a portion of the bony maxilla with three teeth,
the soft tissue lateral to the mandible, and associated soft tissue superior
to the mandible including a portion of a lower molar (mandibular bone is not
present). The buccal surface of the oral cavity, lateral to the teeth, has
an exophytic, friable lesion which extends along the posterior mucosal
surface to the medial aspect of the specimen where it is present medial to
the upper and lower teeth. Grossly, this exophytic lesion is at least 2.5 x
3.5 x 2.5 cm on initial examination. The egdes of the lesion are grossly 0.5
cm from the posterior mucosal margin, 0.8 cm from the inferior mucosal
margin, 0.5 cm from the anterior mucosal margin, and 0.5 cm from the superior
mucosal margin. On initial gross examination, this lesion does not appear to
extend through the fibrofatty tissue located lateral to the buccal surface.

 

Using the orientation provided per surgeon (single stitch anterior lateral,
double stitch posterior medial), the mucosal margins are inked in the
following manner: anterior = blue; superior 2 black; medial = red; inferior
= green. The lateral soft tissue margin is inked orange, the inferior soft
tissue is inked green, the superior soft tissue is inked black, the medial
soft tissue is inked red, and the posterior soft tissue margin is inked blue
over green. Representative shave margins are taken from the inferior and
anterior mucosal surfaces. The specimen is then cut in a transverse plane,
separating the maxilla from the mandibular soft tissue, and each piece is
serially sectioned. The tumor has a firm white cut surface, with friable
areas, and grossly extends to within 0.1 mm of the deep inked margin (blue
over green), within 0.1 cm of the inked medial soft tissue margin (red),
within 0.1 cm of the inked lateral soft tissue margin (orange),and within 0.2
cm of the inferior soft tissue margin (green). On sectioning, the tumor
appears larger than on original examination, and measures 4.5 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm.
The upper maxillary bone is focally sectioned and has foci suspicious for
bony involvement; these areas are submitted for decalcification.

Cassette summary: El — representative shave margins from the inferior and

anterior mucosal margins; E2 ~ representative perpendicular margins from the

medial and superior mucosal margins; E3 — representative sections of neoplasm

in relationship to deep soft tissue margin; E4 - relationship of neoplasm and

closest medial soft tissue margin; E5 — relationship of neOplasm and closest

lateral soft tissue margin; E6 - relationship of neoplasm and superior soft

tissue margin; E7 — representative sections of superior upper lateral mucosa

in relationship to inked mucosal margin; E8 - relationship of neoplasm and

inferior inked margin; E9—E10 - composite cross section through neoplasm; @
E11— E12 — upper maxillary bone..

F) Received fresh designated "buccal tumor" is one piece of whitish red
fibrous tissue, 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in

for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted in
cassette .

G) Received fresh designated "lateral margin" is a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm
triangular piece of whitish red tissue which is inked blue and entirely

submitted for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted
in cassette

H) Received fresh designated “medial margin“ is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm piece
of whitish red tissue which is not inked, and is entirely submitted for
frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted in cassette

I) Received fresh designated "deep margin" is a 0.6 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm piece of
red, fibrous tissue which is inked green and entirely submitted for frozen
section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted in cassette

J) Received fresh designated "anterior margin" is one piece of whitish red
fibrous tissue measuring 0.5 X 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is inked red and
entirely submitted for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and
submitted in cassette

K) Received fresh designated "superior margin" is a 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm {a
piece of red—white fibrous tissue which is inked orange and entirely

submitted for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted
in cassette

L) Received fresh designated "lateral bony margin" is a 4.0 x 0.4 x 0.7 cm
sickle—shaped piece of bone and adherent dark brown soft tissue. No grossly
obvious lesions are identified invading the bony surface; however, multiple
cross sections are made and the specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes
L1 and L2.

M) Received fresh designated "posterior bony margin" is a 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.1
cm translucent piece of bone. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette
M1 after a brief period of decalcification.

N) Received fresh designated "new buccal margin" is one piece of yellow
soft fibrofatty tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm, which is entirely
submitted for frozen section analysis, after which it is thawed and submitted
in cassette

0) Received in formalin designated "parotid duct" is a 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm
piece of white, firm soft tissue. A duct lumen is not identified. The
specimen is bisected perpendicular to the long axis, and both resulting
tissue fragments are submitted in cassette Ol.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FFS: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma,
DES, GFS. HES, IFS, JFS, KFS, NFS: No carcinoma identified,

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A) Lymph nodes, right level II, excision: l lymph node with no evidence of
carcinoma.

B) Lymph nodes, right neck, dissection: 2 of 24 lymph nodes with
metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (including 1/3 nodes from level II; 0/3
nodes from level III; 0/7 nodes from level IV; l/ll nodes from level V).

C) Lymph nodes, right level V, excision: 5 lymph nodes with no evidence of
carcinoma.
E) Maxillary bone and attached soft tissue, composite resection: Invasive

keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (well-to—moderately—differentiated) with
the following features:

1. 4.5 cm in greatest dimension.

2. Margins: Carcinoma is present at the deep soft tissue margin, 0.2 cm
from the medial margin,

0.3 cm from the lateral soft tissue margin, 0.2 cm from the superior soft
tissue margin, and 0.1 cm from the inferior soft tissue margin. See
separately submitted mucosal margins below.

3. Angiolymphatic invasion is not identified.

4. No bone invasion identified.

5. See comment.

F) Buccal tumor, biopsy: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma.

D, G, H, I, J, K, N) Inferior, lateral, medial, deep, anterior, superior,

and new buccal margins, excisions: No dysplasia or carcinoma identified

 

L, M) Bone, lateral and posterior bony margins, respectively, resections:
No evidence of carcinoma.

0) Parotid duct, excision: No dysplasia or carcinoma identified.
COMMENT:
E) The minimum pathologic stage based on the above information is pT3 N2 MX

(AJCC 6th edition, 2002).

Procedures used to establish the diagnosis:
Routine

Print

(as: is
Reviewer Imtiils

 

