 

 

"x 1’) ~C — ’>
CWMCWWd, zWT/MW/ ’
83$dﬂ3 jar
u/u/w

Sh WWW c2541 4

UUID:AE522BED-8966-4D55-9311-4E8E214D6446
TCGA-AS-AOGX-O1A-PR

d d
(a mIliumInmm"mmmumnulllmmlmiliﬁlu‘iiiie

 

III II | I ll lllll |||||||| II II | llllllllllll llllllllllll l llllllll II III
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllIllllllllll OrderingM.D.:
_ Copies To:
Age/Sex‘.-'l Assistant:
Locatior Dale of Procedu

Date Received:

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED: A. UTERUS AND CERVlX F51, a. VAGlNAL MARGINS
DIAGNOSIS:

A. UTERUS, F ALLOPIAN TUBES AND OVARIES, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HY STERECTOMY
AND BILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioidtype with associated squamous changes
and focal secretory changes, FIGO gradejl nuclear grade 2 (see comment)

- The endometrium of the uterine fundus, anterior uterine corpus, posterior uterine
corpus and anterior and posterior lower uterine segments shows extensive
involvement by adenocarcinoma

- An endometrial polyp is also partially replaced by adenocarcinoma

- Endometrial-myometrial interface is irregular and undulating in many areas; there
is minimal superﬁcial invasion of the myometrium in the uterine corpus
by adenocarcinoma (involving less than 10% of the myometrium)

V, . - In the posterior lower uterine segment myometrial invasion by tumor is also present
’ a and relatively superﬁcial involving no more than 20% of the uterine wall thickness

- Secondary involvement of adenomyosis and an adenomyoma by carcinoma

- No unequivocal lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by carcinoma identified

- Tumor extends to the lower uterine segment~endocervical junction, anteriorly
and posteriorly

- No invasion of endocervix by tumor is evident

- Ectocervix and vaginal cuff are free of tumor

- Parametrial tissues are free of tumor

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving ovaries JV

- BMW tube with adenocarcinoma, endometrioid-type, uncertain whether Q») 0
this re resents a seconda rima neo lasm onextension of tumor from uterus; S ’9
carcinoma involves the mucosa of fallopian tube in the proximal and middle

segments, is present in the lumen of the fallopian tube, and some free-ﬂoating
aggregates of tumor at the ﬁmbriated end appear to be "walled off" by an
inﬂamed, hemorrhagic adhesion, but others appear to be "ﬂoating" outside the
fallopian tube adjacent to the ﬁmbria
- Uninvolved endometrium ranges from inactive/weakly proliferative to hyperplastic, both

areas of simple and complex endometrial glandular hyperplasia are present and show

varying degrees of cellular atypia

- Adenomyosis with and without involvement by adenocarcinoma

- Uterine serosal adhesions

Patient Case(s)

Page 1 of4

 

9"- Izr .i «mil 1'an M » izf

,
”if ,. i hﬂi

a

Leéai p

 

 

W' PH #= —

— Surface mucosal defects, secondary inﬂammatory changes, hemorrhages and
reactive changes in the endocervix and lower uterine segment consistent with prior
curettage

- Cervix also shows chronic and mild acute inﬂammation, focal (incomplete) atrophic
squamous changes, reserve cell hyperplasia, microglandular endocervical hyperplasia,
squamous metaplasia, parakeratosis, foci of microglandular endocervical hyperplasia and
some cystically dilated glands

- Vaginal cuff mucosa with chronic inﬂammation

- Calcification adjacent to uterus

- Right ovary with senescent changes, relative cortical stromal hyperplasia with associated
hyperthecosis, cystic epithelial inclusions, and serosal adhesions

- Left ovary with senescent changes and relative cortical stromal hyperplasia with
associated hyperthecosis

- Left fallopian tube with foci of epithelial hyperplasia without signiﬁcant cellular atypia,
calciﬁcations, including psammoma body, mucosal endometriosis, subserosal
endosalpingiosis, and serosal adhesions

- Left paratubal cystic Walthard rests

- In addition to adenocarcinoma, right fallopian tube shows foci of epithelial hyperplasia
with and without associated cellular atypia, chronic inﬂammation, salpingitis isthmica
nodosa, subserosal endometriosis, calcification, chronic inﬂammation, adhesions, and
partial walling off of ﬁmbriated end by adhesions and inﬂammatory process

- Right paratubal cystic Walthard rests, endosalpingiosis, Wolffian duct remnants and
mesothelial cysts

B. VAGINA, DESIGNATED "VAGINAL MARGINS", EXCISION:
- Chronic and minimal acute inﬂammation with associated reactive squamous changes
- Thermal/cautery artifacts
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

COMMENT: It is uncertain whether endometrioid carcinoma involving the right fallopian
tlmwmﬁﬁgrsegondary involvement by tumor for the uterus. It is
noteworthy that both fallopian tubes show foci of epithelial hyperplasia and that there is mucosal
endometriosis involving the contralateral (left) fallopian tube. Preliminarv ﬁndings were discussed

with Dr. The case was presented at
Conference on ;

 

 

HISTORY: Endometrial cancer

MICROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.

SPECIAL STUDIES: H&E-stained step sections (A3x1, A4x1, A5x1, A8x2, A9x 1, Alel, A1 1x2, AIZXZ,
A15x2, A16x1, A17x1, A20x1, A22x1, A25x2, A26x2)

IMMUNOSTAINS: None

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of4

 

 

 

GROSS:

A. UTERUS AND CERVIX (FS 1)

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus and cervix (F S l)", and received fresh in the Operating Room for
intraoperative frozen section, is a 200 gram supracervical hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
specimen. The cervix has been amputated or severed from the uterus and is received separately in the same
specimen container. The uterus is symmetric. The uterus is about 7.5 cm from fundus to the resection margin at the
level of the lower uterine segment or uppermost endocervix, 8.0 cm from comu to comu and up to 6.0 cm from the
anterior surface to the posterior surface. Attached to the uterus, there are bilateral parametrial soft tissues that
measure up to 1.0 cm in width and appear grossly free of tumor. The serosal surface of the uterus is tan-pink and
relatively smooth except for procedure—related artifacts. The uterus was previously incised on both sides at the time

of intraoperative consultation. The endometnal cavity is about 6.5 cm long and up to 3.5 cm in width. Within the

sides. The cervical transformation zone is distinct. The mucosa lining the upper endocervical canal (and possibly
lowermost aspect of the lower uterine segment) is defective/ulcerated, and tan-rat. Elsewhere, the endoeervical
mucosa is tan and rugose. The wall in the upper endocervix/lower uterine segment appears thin with a maximum
thickness of about 0.4 cm. No gross tumor is seen in the tracheiectomy portion of the specimen, (i.e., ec‘tocervix or
endocervix). The right ovary is about 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The serosal surface of the right ovary is tan-yellow,
lobulated and generally smooth except for a few adhesions. Cut sections of the right ovary reveal relatively
abundant yellow-tan cortical stroma and a few corpora albicantia, but no gross evidence of tumor. The right
fallopian tube has ﬁmbria at one end, is about 8.0 cm long, and ranges from 0.4 to 0.8 cm in diameter. There are

aggregate of soﬁ friable tan tissue, possibly representing tumor, which partially obstructs the lumen. The left ovary
is atrophic, about 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The left ovary has a tan-yellow undulated serosal surface. Cut sections of the

left ovary reveal a peripheral rim of yellow-tan cortical stroma which is relatively abundant, a few corpora
albicantia, and no gross evidence of tumor. The left fallopian tube has ﬁmbria at one end, is about 4.5 cm long, and

A2. Anterior cervix - 1
A3. Anterior endocervix to margin — l

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

A4. Posterior cervix - 1

A5. Posterior endocervix to resection margin — 1

A6. Anterior uterine fundus — 1

A7. Anterior uterine corpus - 1

A8. Anterior lower uterine segment to supracervical resection margin - 1
A9. Posterior uterine fundus - 1

A10. Posterior uterine corpus - 1

A1 1. Posterior lower uterine segment to supracervical resection margin - 1
A12. Single intramural leiomyoma — 1

A13. Entire anterior vaginal cuff - Multiple

A14. Right ovary - 1

A15. Right fallopian tube, proximal, mid and distal segments ~ 3

A16. Left ovary - 1

A17. Leﬁ fallopian tube, proximal, mid and distal segments — 3

A18. Right parametrial tissues — Multiple

A19. Left parametrial tissues - Multiple

Additional sections (fallopian tubes now each entirely embedded):
A20. Distal right fallopian tube - 3

A21. Distal right fallopian tube - 3

A22. Mid-portion of right fallopian tube - 4

A23. Mid-portion of right fallopian tube ~ 3

A24. Proximal right fallopian tube - 5

A25. Proximal right fallopian tube ~ 4

A26. Distal left fallopian tube - 4

A27. Mid-portion of left fallopian tube and adjacent ovary — 5
A28. Proximal left fallopian tube - 3

B. VAGINAL MARGINS
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "vaginal margins", and received in formalin is a 1.8 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm portion
of pink—tan vaginal tissue that is lined focally wrinkled otherwise smooth mucosa and has underlying semisoﬁ

stroma. No gross tumor is seen. The entire specimen is embedded.
B 1. 7

Gross dictated by

OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

ENDOMETRIUM OF UTERUS:
- Adenocarcinoma, favor F IGO grade 2
' a , MD.)

1 have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
, M.D. Electronically Signet

:merl-
)iagnosir Discrcplﬂrv
r ' ’rimarv Tumor 5 tr. D
SURGICAL PA THOLOGY REPOR r mkm'"; WWW
Page 4 0f 4 "id! Malignancy Hisrnry '
)ual/Synrhrcnou: I‘.: a: . med ‘T-
gamma»,

~

 

 
 
  
 
   

