 

 

  
 
  
 

CGA-HC-TZIZ

 

. . -:: .s.sne'ciinen.iiisbnitrationé:

Collected: ' Accession it:
Received: Acct I Reg #: ' '
Reported:

' ' ' :3 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY. REPORT

  
 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Pros'tatectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Adenocaroinoma.
. Prostate size: 5.0x5. 0X4.;Dcm 47 g.
. Tumor quantitatlon: Neoplasm involves approximately 5% of the prostatic tissue examined.
It is conﬁned to the right lobe of the prostate gland.
. Gleason grade:
3. Primary pattern: 3/5..
b. Secondary pattern: 4/5.
c. Total Gleason score: 7110.
. Extraprosiatic extension: No.
. Seminal vesicle involvement: No.
. Lymphovascular space invasion: No deﬁnitive intraluminal neoplasm is identiﬁed.
Extensive perineural Invasion is present.
. High grade PlN: Present.
Surgical Margin Status:
. The apical margin demonstrates no histoiogic evidence of malignancy.
. The neoplasm extends to the inked prostatic margin in the right posterior section.
. Allother resection margins are free of malignancy.
‘ Lymph Node Status:
. Total number of lymph nodes received: See specimen 0 below.
Other:
1. Fibromuséular and ﬁbrogiandular hypertrophy (BPH) with extensive glandular atrophy.
2. pTNM stage: pT2a NO MX.

43 (AN-«a

(ON-’- 09 “0301

"L

B. Right urethral margin:
No histologic evidence of malignancy identiﬁed.

 

C. Bilateral pelvic lymph nodes:
Total number of lymph nodes examined: 4.
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0.

COMMENTS:

The neoplasm demonstrates an extensive cn'briiorrn pattern in addition to the usua 314 pattern. All sections of neoplasm are identiﬁed in
the right lobe of the prostate but additional tissue is submitted from the left lobe for examination. Review of these additional slides demonstrate no

histologic evidence of malignancy.

      

5' CLINlCAUEINEORMATION

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Malignant neoplasm prostate

Postoperative Diagnosis: . '
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPEClMENS:

A. Prostate

B. Right urethral margin
' C. Bilateral pelvic lymph nodes

 

M

 

 

 

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION. . '
A. The first coniainerA Is labeled __ estate. The specimen consists of an intact prostate gland with attached bilateral seminal

vesicles and vas deferens The prostate measures 5. O x 5 O x 4. 0 cm and weighs 47 grams. The surface of the. prostate is gray to brown tan with slight
hemorrhage and adhesions. The seminal vesicles measure in average 3.0 cm in length and 1.5 cm in diameter and the vas deferens measure 4. 5 cm in
length ‘and 0.3 cm in diameter and are likewise unremarkable. The right half-ofthe prostate has been inked blue and the left half has been inked black.
The specimen is serially sectioned from apex to base. The cut surface ls ra tan nodular. A deﬁnitive lesion Is not identified grossly. Received with the
specimen “’9 two two cassettes, onegreen and one yellow. labeledﬁ Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 12956A
' 5 follows: right seminal Vesicle and vas—l; leﬁ seminal vestc e an vas—2; perpendicular sections taken from the margins from apex-6;

case-4; prostate submitted from apex to base as folloWs: level 1 left anterior—5; left posterior—6; right posterior—7; right anterior-6; level 2 left anterior—
9; left posterior—10; right posterior—11; right anterior—12; level 3 left anterior—13; lett posterior—1 4; right posterior—15; right anterior—16.

This' is an additional tissue request from rho would like six additional sections from the left side of the prostate' in part A Additional sections
of the left half ofthe prostate are submitted in cassettes A17- A22 labeled

8 The second container B is labelei ' _ _gate right urethral margln. The specimen consists of a piece of brown tan softtlssue measuring
07 x 0 5 x O 2 cm The specimen" is entirely submitted" in a single casselt

C The third container C is labelt ' bilateral pelvic lymph nodes The specimen consists of a portion of iibroadipose tissue
measuring _5. u x 433 y 1 o A... s;....,....rg iuor probable lymph nodes measuring from O. 3 to 2.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted In
cassettes follolvs: one probable node bisected—i; one probable node—2; one probable node bisected-3', one probable node

 

triseoted-«é. “J o.

 

 

 

