/cA/o—3

W/ WW /0./)(’L[1/‘J, M05 85;: 0/ 3

' . 54.? W
LS/fl/ W A)”; C 67/54,,

‘ Final Diagnosis

A. Lymph node, left axillary sentinel No. 1, biopsy: A single left axillary sentinel lymph node is
negative for metastatic carcinoma. Blue dye is identiﬁed. Immunohistochemical cytokeratin
stain was performed on the parafﬁn embedded sentinel lymph node tissue and conﬁrms the H&E
impression.

B. Lymph node, left axillary sentinel No. 2, biopsy: A single left axillary sentinel lymph node is
negative for metastatic carcinoma. Blue dye is identiﬁed. Immunohistochemical cytokeratin
stain was performed on the parafﬁn embedded sentinel lymph node tissue and conﬁrms the H&E
impression.

C. Breast, left, simple mastectomy: Inﬁltrating lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade I (of 111)
[tubules 3/3, nuclei 1/3, mitoses 1/3; Nottingham score 5/9] is identiﬁed forming a 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.5
cm mass located in the lower outer quadrant of the breast. Ductal carcinoma in situ is absent.
Lobular carcinoma in situ is present. Angiolymphatic invasion is absent. The non-neoplastic
breast parenchyma shows ﬁbrocystic changes and a hyalinized ﬁbroadenoma (0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm,
lower inner quadrant). Calciﬁcations present in benign ducts and acini. Biopsy site changes
present. The tumor does not involve the nipple, overlying skin, or underlying chest wall. All
surgical resection margins, including the deep margin, are negative for tumor (minimum tumor
free margin, 0.2 cm, anterior margin). With available surgical material [AJCC pleN0(i-)(sn)].

D. Lymph node, right axillary sentinel No. 1, biopsy: A single right axillary sentinel lymph node
is positive for isolated tumor cells (less than 200 cells) on H&E and cytokeratin immunostaining.
Blue dye is identiﬁed.

E. Lymph node, right axillary sentinel No. 2, biopsy: A single right axillary sentinel lymph node
is negative for metastatic carcinoma. Blue dye is not identiﬁed. Immunohistochemical
cytokeratin stain was performed on the parafﬁn embedded sentinel lymph node tissue and
conﬁrms the H&E impression.

F. Lymph node, right axillary, biopsy: A single right axillary lymph node is negative for tumor.

G. Breast, right, simple mastectomy: Inﬁltrating lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade I (of III)
[tubules 3/3, nuclei 1/3, mitoses 1/3; Nottingham score 5/9] is identiﬁed forming a 12.5 x 6.3 x
2.2 multinodular, irregular, ill—deﬁned mass with biopsy site changes involving multiple
quadrants from the lateral aspect of the breast to the upper inner quadrant. Ductal carcinoma in
situ is absent. Lobular carcinoma in situ is present. Angiolymphatic invasion is absent. The non-
neoplastic breast parenchyma shows ﬁbrocystic changes. Calciﬁcations present in benign ducts
and acini. Biopsy site changes present. The tumor does not involve the nipple, overlying skin, or
underlying chest wall. All surgical resection margins, after re-excision of the deep margin (see
part H), are negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 0.2 cm, deep margin). With
available surgical material [AJCC pT3N0(i+)(sn)].

H. Breast, new right inferior-lateral chest wall margin, re-excision: Invasive lobular carcinoma
present within the tissue, located 0.2 cm from the new deep margin.

UUID:C3537961-4636-4BD1-B -
TCGA-AR-AZLQ-Ol _C89 892588536E43

uumumlumlmu "1”” "“3““
l mmmmm "1|”quu/iiiiiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiii'"I"

IllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

HWAA

Cue ls

Reviewer

 

