/¢A-ar}
WWW/”WC NW ‘93’4/3
thsz/w‘w 6541 PM”

uuro:ssnc7332-5199-4033-9A1E-rezszaa13545d
TCGA- as- AeUA- 01A- PR cted

||||||||I|||I”|III|I ||||||||I|IIllllllwﬂllilIlllllllll IIIaII III
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII“

   

Surgical Pathology Report

‘— ——-_..._

Patient Name: Accession it:
Med. Rec. #: ‘ Client: Taken:
008: Location: Received:
Gender: Reported:

History/Clinical Dx: Endometriai cancer

 

Postoperative Dx: {Not Provided}

Specimenm Received:
A: Right tube and ovary

8: Left tube and ovary

C: Uterus, cervix

 

 

w:
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right tube and ovary: 'i. Ovary with physiologic changes
2. Acute salpingitis
3. Free of tumor
B. Left tube and ovary: 1. Ovary with physiologic changes
2. Acute salpingitis
3. Free of tumor
C. Uterus. cervix: ENDOMETRIAL ADENOCARCINOMA, endometrioid type; well
differentiated (FlGO grade l)
Tumor information:
Type of specimen: Hysterectomy
Tumor location: Endometrium
Tumor size: 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm
Histologic type: Endometrioid
Histologic grade: Well differentiated (FIGO grade 1)
Tumor extent:
Depth of invasion: 0.4 em out of a 1.5 cm thick myometrium ( <1I3 of the myometrial
thickness)
Horizontal extent: 3.5 cm

Lower third of vagina involvement: NIA
Lower uterine segment involvement: Not present

 

 

Pelvic wall extension: Not present

Parametriai invasion: Not present

Biadderlrectai mucosal extension: NIA

Lymphovascular invasion: None identiﬁed

Resection margins: Free of involvement

Lymph node involvement: NIA

%ﬁ:: -%3 :wgkgu»; I“ “q.- in“: laidgnmiﬂ ”wharf?“ (”0’ Egg; m0 :Is-mmjﬁ Mill‘s-.11 s vault-1r wamLJwe it some!" men-I awa- hn' as 'w cwsduqi ..r as

 

mwm 3M: amenity :- emira- lander 5M " Aw: Ml: iﬁrxalny‘nm' M ”ammonium; N Mercy 1} annual-Mb .M'dﬂn My: wanna: ly mien swan-n imam:

 

0
5,.

"in.

 

- Surgical Pathology Report -_

 

Other ﬁndings: Adenomyosis

C mments:
as reviewed this case and concurs.

.4
1

 

lntraoperativg" consultation:

C. Frozen Section interpretation: Endometriai adenocarcinoma. well differentiated; possible myometriai invasion

Gross Description

A. Received in formalin labeled "right tube and ovary" consists of an ovary attached fallopian tube weighing 7 grams. The ovary
is tan measuring 2.0 cm in greatest dimensions. Cut surface is unremarkable. The fallopian tube measures 5.0 cm in length
and 0.3 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted in cassette A.

8. Received in formalin labeled “left tube and ovary" consists of an ovary and attached fall0pian tube weighing 7 grams. The
ovary ls tan measuring 1.5 cm in greatest dimensions. Cut sections are unremarkable. The attached fallopian tube measures
4.0 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted in cassette B.

C. Received fresh labeled "cervix and uterus“ consists of a uterus and cervix weighing 57 grams. The uterus is received
bivalved. The uterine corpus measures 5.0 x 4.5 x 3.5 cm. The serosai surface is ten and smooth. The cervix measures 3.0
cm in length and 3.0 cm in diameter. The ectocervieel mucosa is white-tan and smooth. A tan polypoid mass is present on
the endometrial surface measuring approximately 3.5 x 2.0 cm in area. The tumor measures 1.0 cm in thickness. Possible
myometrial invasion is identiﬁed grossly. A portion of tissue is submitted for frozen section. , < ‘A of myornetrial thickness.
The myometrium measures approximately 1.5 cm in thickness. The endocervicai canal is unremanrable grossly. The
myometrium is senaily'sectioned to reveal a well-circumscribed tan mass measuring 0.7 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted as follows: ‘

KEY TO CASSETTES:

C1 - Frozen section residualy.

C2 - Cervix

C3 - Lower uterine segment

C4 - Anterior endometrium

65-07 - Anterior endolmyometrium. full thickness
(38-09 - Posterior endolmyometrium. full thickness
C10 - Myometrial mass and across

C11 - Parametrlai tissue

Microscopic Description
A—C. The microscopic ﬁndings support the above diagnoses.

 

