 

 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Dale of Receipt:
Dale of Report:
Accouni #:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

 

Ref. Source: ,

Clinical Dia nosis & Histor .TGGAHBFH1989
—iih right renal mass.

Size cimens Sgbmitted: i

1: SP: Kidney. rightwilhlumor. ra icainepnreciomy
2: SP: Lymph nodes paracavala dprecevat excision
3: S

P. Adrenai right excision

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
PENDING ADDITIONAL secrions FROM RENAL VEIN

1. SP: Kidney, right wrth tumor: radical nephrectom-

Tumor Type:
Re nai cell carcinoma- Conventional (clear ceii) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade: i
Nuclear grade iii/iv

Tumor Size: :
Greatest diameter is 6.2 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Extends through renal capsule but conﬁned within Garcia‘s fascia

Renal Vein invasion:
identiﬁed

Surgicai Margins: 5
Free cfiumor ;
Non-N eoplastic Kidney: ;

Unremarkabie j

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified:

Staging for re nai cell carcindmaloncocytoma:

pT3 Tumor exiends inio maior veins or invades the adrenai gland or perinephric iissues but not beyond Gerota' a

fascia

........................................................

 

 

Page 1 cf 3

 

 

2. SP: Lymph nodes. paracaval and precaval excision I
Lymph Nodes: l
Not involved 3
Number of nodes examined: 10

 

3. SP: Adrenal, right, excisiODIi
Benign adrenal gland i
|

l
tA'iTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS is BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EWINATlON OF THE SLIDES {ANDIOR OTHER MATERML), AND THAT i HAVE

REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.
l

 

 

Gross Descrlgtlon:

1). The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Right kidney and tumor" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels
and perinephrlc tat weighing 4?7. 9 post ﬁxation. The kidney measures 11.? x 8.4 x 4.2 cm. The renal capsular surface is
smooth piniotan. with a smooth b :lging nodular area identiﬁed In the area of the hilum. The attached ureter measures 1.? cm in
length and 0. 4 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.5 cm in length and 0. 9 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland' rs not identified. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal an
lli- deﬁned redutan tumor mass measuring 6. 2 x 4. 9 x 3.2 cm, which Is located at the superior pole of the kidney. extending to but
not grossly involving the renal pelvis and renal sinus. On sectioning. an iii- deﬁned white tea libretto area is identiﬁed within the
mass measuring 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. On sectioning, the tumor locally involves the renal vein, with a 0.2. and 0.7 cm
red-tan bulging area identiﬁed at the endothelial lining. The tumor does not grossly involve the inked perinephric margin, or hltum
and hliar fat. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma. with a well~detined coriicomaduliary
junction. The cortex measures 0i? cm. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric tat. Representative sections are
submitted for TPS and for permartent sections and photographs have been taken.

Summary of sections: .‘
UVM -- ureterai and vessel margins
RST-- tumor

TWF — tumor with fat

TH-- tumor with hilar lat

RS -- tumor with sinus fat

RP — tumor with renal pelvis

NK —- representative sections kidney
Vl-entire area of vascular invasion

2). The specimen is receive I in formalin, labeled "paracavat and pericaval lymph node" and consists of multiple
suspected lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 cm. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections l
LN -~ suspected lymph nodes

3). The specimen is received in formalin labeled “right adrenal gland“ and consists of a adrenal gland measuring 6 x
2 x 0.8 cm and weighing 13 gi Cut sections of adrenal gland Is grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are

submitted.

Summary of sections

 

Page 2 of3

 

 

U. -» undesignated

Summary of Sections: .
Part 1: SP: Kidney, right with tumor, radical nephrectomy -

Block Sect. Site I PCs

nk ! ‘i

rp

rs

rat

in

twi

uvm i

vi i
|

mééémm-XAA
(beg—swig...»

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, parahaval and precaval, excision I

Block Sect. Site l P03
2 LN 2

Part3: SP: Adrenei. right, excision .

Block Sect. Site : PCs
2 u 2

Intraonerative Consultation: l
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the

tissue sample examine , at the time of the intraoparative

consultation.
1) FROZEN secrton DIAeNOSIs: conclsrsnr WiTi—i RENAL CELL CARCiNOMA, enoss EXAMINATiON ONLY.
P*1E ANENT oIAenosIs: SAME

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

 

