 

Diagnosis:

PANCREAS, STOMACH, SMALL BOWEL, WHIPPLE PROCEDURE:

- Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated.
- Tumor size 3.4 cm.

— Tumor extends into peripancreatic soft tissue.
- Tumor invades into ampulla of Vater.

- Surgical margins negative, see comment.
- One of eighteen lymph nodes POSITIVE (1118).

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (EXOCRINE PANCREAS):
Type and grade: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately to
poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3
Regional lymph nodes: pN1
Distant metastasis: NIA
Pathologic stage: IIB
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Margin status: R0, negative.

COMMENT: The surgical margins are negative with adenocarcinoma 2 mm from the
posterior-inferior margin.

Tumor Staging lnforrnation
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging

Handbook,-nd CAP protocol, _

 

 

 

Specimen:

Procedure:

TUMOR FEATURES:

Tumor site:

Tumor size:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:
Microscopic tumor extension:

MARGINS:

Treatment effect:

Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING DESCRIPTORS:
Primary tumor:

Regional lymph node:

Distant metastasis:

Pathologic stage:

Head, body of pancreas, duodenum, stomach, bile duct.

Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial
pancreatectomy.

Pancreatic head.

3.4 cm.

Ductal adenocarcinoma.

G2—3, moderately to poorly differentiated.

Tumor invades ampulla of Vater and duodenal wall and
peripancreatic soft tissues.

R0, negative.

NIA

Not identiﬁed.
Not identiﬁed.

pT3.
pN1.
N/A.
IIB.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Source of Specimen:
Whipple procedure

Clinical Histog/Operative Dx:

Pancreas carcinoma

Intraoperative Diagnosis:

FS: Whipple procedure: Bile duct margin negative. Pancreatic margin n u .5 '
The intraoperative interpretation(s) was/were performed and rendered a

    

Gross Description:

Single specimen designated as Whipple procedure. Initially received In a fresh state for frozen section
analysis and Oncogenotyping studies, is a generous portion oftissue consistent with a Whipple procedure,
consisting of a pancreas, distal end of the stomach, and small bowel segment. The pancreas is 2.7 cm in
length, 3.2 cm superior—inferior, and 4.2 cm posterior-anterior. The common bile duct margin extends out
to 0.7 cm, and 0.8 cm in diameter. The gastric tissue is 9.2 cm - greater and 9.8 cm - lesser. The small
bowel segment is 29.7 cm in length with an average diameter of 2.3 cm. The gastric and small bowel
serosa semi-congested light pink to purple-red. The head of the pancreas demonstrates palpable ﬁrmness.
The surfaces of the pancreas are now differentially inked as follows:

Anterior - yellow,

posterior (uncinate) - black,
superior - blue,

interior - green,

pancreatic groove - red.

The small bowel length and gastric tissue are now opened, initially revealing a markedly ulcerated tumor

mass obliterating the Ampulla of Vater, and upon sectioning reveals a dense, well demarcated gray tumor
mass measuring up to 3.4 x 3.3 x 2.8 cm . The ulcerated depression is to a depth of 1.8 cm. The tumor
mass is positioned 32 cm distal to the pylons, 23.1 cm from the distal small bowel margin of resection,

and 0.4 cm from the distal pancreatic margin of resection. The common bile duct lumen is probed to
reveal patency with the likely accessory duct lumen (0.2 cm diameter), 0.7 cm distal to the ulcerated mass.
Careful sectioning along the pancreatic duct does not reveal communication with this "accessory duct" or
the common bile duct length. The tumor mass grossly abuts the inferior pancreatic margin and grossly
within 0.3 cm ofthe mesentericlpancreatic groove margin, 0.4 cm of the posterior uncinate margin, and

grossly within 0.7 cm of the anterior surface.

The superior and superior-posterior pancreatic parenchyma demonstrates a distinct glandular, tan
appearance, free of tumor involvement. A 0.3 x 0.5 cm multiloculated cyst is 0.3 cm adjacent to the

common bile duct and abuts the superior pancreatic margin. A representative portion of the tumor and
para-normal pancreatic tissue is submitted for Oncogenotyping studies. The distal pancreatic margin is

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

shaved and submitted for frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen tissue submitted on face for

permanent sections. The common bile duct surgical margin is trimmed and submitted for frozen section,
with the residual frozen tissue submitted for permanent sections.

Initial examination ofthe peripancreatic fat reveals nineteen lymph node candidates ranging from 0.2 cm
- 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. The remainder of the small bowel mucosa demonstrates partially ﬂattened
to prominent, semi-congested tan to deep red mucosal folds, with ischemic changes throughout the
distal12.3 cm length. The gastric tissue is partially ﬂattened to wrinkled, mildly congested pink and tan.
Examination of the perigastric fat reveals four lymph node candidates, 0.3 - 1.0 cm. Representative
sections are submitted for microsc0pic evaluation.

Cassette summary:

A1) common bile duct margin, frozen section,

A2) distal pancreatic margin of resection, frozen section,

A3-A4) ulcerated tumor masslobliterated ampulla of Vater,

A5) accessory duct and GED relationship,

A6) perpendicular representation of pancreas and likely approach of tumor, inferior margin,
A7—A8) inferior pancreas, tumor,

A9-A10) pancreatic notch margin, tumor,

A11) anterior pancreas, contiguous sections x2,

A12) anterior pancreas,

A13—A15) posterior! uncinate pancreas, four pieces.

A16) pancreas, superior, cystic lesion, length of CBD represented,

A17) three peripancreatic lymph nodes candidates,

A18) ﬁve peripancreatic lymph node candidates,

A19) two peripancreatic lymph nodes candidates bisected, one along posterior periphery (black),
A20) one peripancreatic lymph node candidates, bisected,

A21) two peripancreatic lymph node candidates, bisected. one marked green, the other two pieces

aﬂached,

A22) two lymph node candidates,

A23) fatty area suspicious for lymph node content,

A24) single lymph node bisected,

A25) single lymph node trlsected,

A26) large ﬂat lymph node bisected,

A27) ﬁve perigastric lymph node candidates,

A28) proximal gastric margin of resection represented,

A29) distal small bowel margin resection,

A30) representation of gastric and small bowel length-

 

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. lmmunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin.

 

