UUID:F32A3039-CA89-496C-3131-51DC46FCE1E9
TCGA-4X-A9F9-91A-PR edlalﬁlted

llIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllli

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Pat/em " Accession #:
MR # Taken:
DOB/Age/Se) Accessioned:
Visit #.‘ Adm-Disch Date:
Submitting Physician: ' Reported:

Clinical History and Impression:
Preop dx: Thymoma
Procedure: Sternotomy, thymectomy

 

Specimen(s) Received:
THYMUS

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
THYMUS, PLEURA, PERICARDIUM AND LUNG, RADICAL THYMECTOMY:

— THYMOMA, WHO TYPE 81, WITH INVASION INTO LUNG PARENCYMA (6 CM)
—ANTERIOR MEDIASTINAL PLEURAL MARGIN FOCALLY INVOLVED
- pT3, NX, Mx stage III (MODIFIED MASAOKA STAGE)

NOTE: Section from block 6 shows tumor both inked and cauterized. Keratin stain supports
interpretation as epithelial cells are present at cauterized margin. Tumor also extends
to left anterior and posterior surgical margins but per surgeon, these are not of clinical
signiﬁcance. Tumor does not involve lung margin, pericardium, innominate vein or
phrenic nerve margin as indicated by surgeon. See also synoptic summary

 

l L r
SYNOPTIC SUMMARY 40D 0 5

Specimen: Thymus and other: Pleura, lung, pericardium, innominate vein UAW ~—; 1313': ’

Procedure: Thymectomy

Specimen Integrity: Intact MWK’}, $59 5)/

Tumor Size: 6 cm

+ Additional dimensions: 5 x 2 cm a .. - 3 '2 c?
Histologic Type: Type B1 thymoma 5 I 2 3 wifnviLA/I (7

Tumor Extension: Pulmonary parenchyma, pleura (mediastinal) ) .

Margins: Anterior margin positive g4 0/4 d/I ’4

Treatment Effect: Not applicable

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Regional Lymph Nodes: Cannot be assessed

Pathologic Staging for Thymomas: Stage III: Macroscopic invasion of neighboring organs
Implants/Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

Pathologic Staging for Thymic Carcinomas (pTNM):

Primary Tumor (QT):

 

 

Printed by: 7 Page 1 of2

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

pT3: Tumor invades neighboring structures, such as pericardium, mediastinal pleura, thoracic wall, great vessels, and lung
Regional Lymph Nodes (9N):

pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

Distant Metastasis (QM):

Not applicable

*Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: Lymphoid follicular hyperplasia

Pathologist:
* Report Electronically Signed Out *

This electronic signature indicates that the pathologist has personally reviewed the available gross andlor microscopic material and has
based the diagnosis on that evaluation.

Gross Description: ,

Received fresh labeled with the patients name and "thymus" consists of thymus (body: 6 x 5 x 2 cm, right lower lobe: 15 x
3.5 X 0.5 cm, left lower pole: 8.5 x 2 x 0.5 cm, right and left upper pole: 5 x 4.5 x 0.3 cm), lung wedge (5 X 2.5 x 1.5 cm),
pleura (3 x 2 cm), and pericardium (3 x 2.5 cm). The specimen is designated by the surgeon as follows: black stitch: upper
pole, double short black stitch: area of tumor against an open pleural space (inked orange), blue single stitch: where phrenic
nerve was dissected off (inked purple), white stitch: mediastinal pleura (inked blue),. The rest of the specimen is inked as
follows: anterior-yellow, posterior-black, patch of pericardium-green, patch of innominate vein-blue, 7 cm long staple
line-red. The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior (medial to lateral plane) to reveal a 3.5 x 3 x 2 cm
ill-defined white lesion which appears to abut the pleura, pericardium and lung resection margin. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

cassette 1=tumor to lung, open pleura

cassette 2=?separate nodule to anterior-posterior margin

cassette 3&4=tumor to lung, open pleura, pericardium

cassette 5=pericardium, anterior aspect

cassette 6&7=tumor to lung, pericardium, anterior mediastinal pleura
cassette 8&9=tumor to phrenic nerve, pericardium

cassette 10&11=tumor to mediastinal pleura, open pleural space, posterior aspect ?separate nodule in cassette 11
cassette 12&13=tumor to innominate vein

cassette 14: representative section of superior pole

cassette 15=representative section of the right lower pole

cassette 16=representative section of the left lower pole

 

Summary of Stains Performed and Reviewed Count
Keratin, AE1/AE3 PK * 2
Negative Control * 2

‘The immunohisiochemicai profile may include the use of Analyze Specific Reagents. or Research Agents, whose performance characteristics have not been established by the Supplier,
The histochemical tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the . :1 has not been cleared or approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for this test. These tests are used for clinical purposes and
should not be regarded as investigations“ or for research. This laboratory IS regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvements Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical testing. Exlemal and lntemal controls stained appropriately.

Summary of Tissue Submitted for Microscopic Examination Block Detail
# Blocks Designation ﬂ Description
Part 1] THYMUS 16 [Undes] (16) (No Description)

/u/ at 7 I}

he

 

Printed by:
END OF REPORT

cm is

Reviewer Reviewed:

 

