  

TCGA—ﬁﬁ —2766

Material examined:

Left lung, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Coiliquating squamous cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe.

REPORT ON FENDiNGS

Macroscopy

1.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed ieft iung measuring 17 x 14 cm at the base and up to 28 cm in length, central bronchus
resection plane located 3 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus. At the hilus a 2.3 cm
mobile node with pale brownish-white section surfaces suggestive of a tumor. Pleural ﬁssure obliterated in
middle third, at the junction of segment 3 with segment the parietal pieura shows an extensive 4 7 x 5.5 cm area
of adhesion. Under this is a centrally soft, but otherwise soft to moderately solid tumor, max. 1.0 cm in size,
pale brownish white at the margin, with a relatively clear and somewhat arcuate demarcation, the main mass
being in segments 3 and 2 and adjacent sections of the lingula, extending to the pleura in the region of the
adhesion and involvement of some nodes up to 2.50m in size, especially at central sites, extending here right up
to the hiiar resection surface. Narrowing of proximal upper lobe segmental bronchi by the tumor. Tumor spread
to the pleural ﬁssure, lower lobe shows no macroscopic inﬁltration. Parenchyma in the tumor environment and
peripherally especially in segment 3 partly diffuse, partly patchy induration and of brownish—yellow color. Rest
of parenchyma especially in the subpleural region shows slight rarefaction in parts, accentuation of apical
lesions in segment 1, with lacunae or lacuna systems up to 0.5 cm here. In the lower lobe at the branch into the
bronchi of the basal group two grayish—black nodes up to 0.6 cm.

2.) Pleural tissue from repeat resection: ﬂat or membranous tissue measuring 6.5 x 4 cm and up to 0.2 cm thick.
Surface partly smooth, partly rough.

3.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1 cm lesioned grayish-black node.

4.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) 1.5 cm fatty tissue with two nodes, 0.8 and 0.50m in size.

5.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) left: 1 cm node,

6.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 1.2 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

'2'.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): two nodes with some surrounding tissue, 2.2 and 1.2 cm
m srze.

8.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: two lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts, 1.4 and 1.3 cm in size,
the iarger on the section surfaces with 0.3 our hard yellowish area.

9.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3) upper lobe vein: 1.2 cm node with some surrounding tissue.

10.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 2 cm node.

11.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) right: two lesioned nodes, 1.6 and 1 cm in size.

12.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 1.8 cm iesioned node or node part. On the section surfaces 0.3 cm
hard yellowish area.

 

Examined:

l.) 2 sections of tumor with remaining parenchyma (partly with narrowed bronchial branches), with pleural
ﬁssure, 2 sections of tumor with pleura or pleural adhesion, 2 sections of involved nodes with hilar resection
surface (color-marked), S3 peripheral, lower lobe node, 81 apical, central bronchus resection plane and
resection margins of vessels, hilar nodes (lamellated),

2.) All material (lamellated),

3.) — 12.) All material (in 4. nodes isolated, in 6., 8., 9. + 12. nodes halved in each case, in 7. larger preparation,
in 10. nodes multi—segmented),

22 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS, decalciﬁcation.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological findings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Large, central to peripheral bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated, large-cell and
polyrnorphocelluiar, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the upper lobe of the left lung. TNM
classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pN2 V1 R0, stage MA. C 34.1; M 8070/3; 3.

Secondary diagnosisfdiagnoses:

Tumor necrosis varying in extent with the formation of a lacuna. Chronic resorptive and organizing pneumonia
in the tumor environment and S3 periphery. Emphysematous stromal remodeling of lung parenchyma with
formation of small subpleural cysts in the apex. SuSpected respiratory bronchiolitis. Pleural adhesion zones and
chronic ﬁbrosing parietal pleuritis (sample 2.)). Lymph nodes with reactive follicular hyperplasia in some cases
(e. g. samples 6.), 8.) and 12.)), in some cases sinus enlargement and an overall rather minor anthracotic pigment
deposit.

Remark/addendum:

The main tumor mass lies in segments 3 and 2. Since the central segmental bronchi are tumor—free, it appears to
be a primarily peripheral carcinoma of the lung, which has invaded the pieura of the pleural fissure and the
adhesion zone, although at the latter site the tumor manifestation appears conﬁned to the visceral layer. Most
lymph node metastases, some of which are rather large, are found in the hilus region. A micro-metastasis is
detected in sample. 8.), which explains the nodal classiﬁcation pN2.

 

