 

7 Patient: | Referring Physician:

 

 

DOB: Age: GendecF

 

Refit: Hoseﬁ: Provider Group :
Date of Service: Date Received: Case
Date Reported:
_ 4—

 

 

A copy of this ran-wt will be faxed to: '
M 1/06 Wésw 7%

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Sia@

can 9
Diagnosis: )8 mof 4w
6) M3) 9..
A. - C.) LEFT BREAST, ADDINONAL ANTERIOR MARGIN, AND LEFT AXiLLARY SENTINEI.
LYMPH NUDE SlMPLE MASTECTOMY (INCLUDING RE-EXCISION OF
ANTERiOR MARGIN) AND SENTiNEL NUDE BIOPSY:
_ Invasive ducta' carci‘rlornal Nottingham grade 3. UUID: 3B2E69EB- 39Fa- 4CDB- 97F9- A6CDDB3D723eBd

TCGA— AC- ASIN- 91A- PR

- Size: 2.6 cm in greatest dimension. I“ I
- Location: 1 1 :00. II”
III I

III
I|||||l|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|II||I|||I|II|I|I||||I||laIIc'ce
- No in situ component Idenhﬁed- I||II|I|I|I|I|I||II|||III|I|IIIIIIIII|IIII||II IIIIIIIIIII
~ Margins:

- invasive carcinoma is widely free of all margins (at least 1 cm away).
- Additional anterior margin consists of benign skin and subcutaneous tissue.
- No iymphovascular invasion identiﬁed.
- Two sentinel lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (012).
- Uninvolved breast parenchyma with focal fibroadenomateid changes.
- Benign skin and nipple with small intraductal papilloma.

COMMENT: Breast carcinoma biomarker studies will be repeated on a representative
section of tumor (block A7) due to the focal weak to strong reactivity for ER and PR in
<1% tumor cells seen previously on core biopsy. The results will follow in an
addendum.

PATHOLOGlC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): invasive ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 3.
Type and grade (in situ): MIA.
Primary tumor: pTZ.
Regional lymph nodes: pNOﬁ-Xsn).
Distant metastasis: MIA.
Stage: “A.
Lymphovascuiar invasion: Not identified.
Margin slams: R0, negative.

Case #‘ Page 1
Printed: ‘ This report continues.,. (FINAL)

Page 116 Page 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

Case #:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

invasive Breast Cancer Tumor Staging information
AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed., and CAP Protocol (revised June 2012).

Previous pathology specimen-

Case 1}" Page 2
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

Page 216 l Page 2

 

 

 

 

Case #:

 

 

SPECIMEN lDENTlFlCATION
Procedurelspecimen type:

Lateralily:
Lymph node camping:

INVASiVE CARCINOMA TUMOR CHARACTERISTICS
Histologic type:
Tumor site:
Tumor size:
Tumor iocality:
Histologic grade (Nottingham Score):
Tubule formation:
Nuclear pleornorphism:
Mitotic rate:

Lymphovasouiar invasion:
Macroscopic and microscopic extent oitumor:

DUCTAL CARCINOMA iN SlTU (DOES):

MARGiNS
Invasive carcinoma:

LYMPH MODES

Total lymph nodes examined

Number of lymph nodes involved
Size of largest metastatic deposit:
Exiranodai extension:

PATHOLOGlC STAGiNG:
Primary Tumor (pT):
Regional lymph nodes (pol);
Distant metastasis (pM):
AJCC Stage:

ANCILLARY STUDIES:
Estrogen receptor.

Progesterone receptor.

HERZ:
K5437:

Case at

Prime

(1:

Pace 316

Simple mastectomy with re-excision of anterior
margin.

Leii breast.

Sentinel lymph node biopsy.

Invasive dumal carcinoma.

1 1 :00.

2.6 cm in greatest dimension.
Unifooai.

3 of 3 (Nottingham score 9 of 9).
3 of 3.

3 of 3.

3 of 3.

Not identiﬁed.
Benign skin and nipple.

Not identiﬁed.

Widely free of all margins (at least 1 cm away).

2 (sentinel nodes).
0.

NIA.

NIA.

pTZ.
pNO(i-)(sn).
MIA.

HA.

Negative {less than 1% positive cells, weak
intensity).

Negative (less than 1% positive cells, strong
intensity).

Negative (score 0).

High (70% positive cells).

Page 3
This report continues... (FINAL)

— Page 3

 

 

. Patient:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Case #1
FiNAL SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Signed by
§ource of §Qecimegz
A. Breast;ieft

B. Sentinel lymph node;left axillary
C. Breastleﬁ additional anterior margin

Clinical HistogiOQerative Dx:

Malignant neoplasm of breast (female, left).

' intraoggrative Diagnosis:
: No tumor cells identiﬁer-

B. Len axillary sentinel lymph node

Gross Qasorigtlon:
A. Part A is designated as left breast - stitch = lateral. initially received in the fresh state for possible

is an 862 gram left simple mastectomy, 26.8 cm medial—lateral. 20.8 cm
inferior-superior, and 4.0 cm posterior—anterior. The overlying ellipse of wrinkled, tan-brown skin is 26.3 x
13.0 cm with a medial-inferior orientated. darkened brown, wrinkled areola, 4.8 cm in diameter with a
prominent 1.3 cm nipple. A double suture marks the lateral apex of the skin. A palpable mess is
appreciated in the upper inner quadrant (approximating 1 1:00). The surgical margins are now
differentially inked as follows:

Superior superﬁcial: Blue,
inferior superﬁcial: Orange,
Posterior: Black.

Included within the container are two unoriented strips of wrinkled. ten-brown skin measuring 11.? x 2.7 x
0.7 cm and 10.3 x 2.4 x13 cm each.

Case all: Page 4
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

Page 4/6 _ ' Page 4

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case

 

 

FlNAL SURGiCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

The breast is serially sectioned perpendicularly through the medial-lateral long axis to reveal a
welloemarcated. soft to rubbery. light gray, lobuiatod tumor mass measuring upwards of 2.6 x 2.5 x 2.3
cm (slabs 8-7, from medial). This tumor is placed grossly 1.0 cm from the superior superﬁcial, 2.4 cm from
the deep and greater than 5.0 cm from the inferior superﬁcial, most medial and most lateral surgical
margins. Along the medial periphery of the lesion is an embedded twisted radiologic marker.

The remaining cut sections of the breast demonstrates admixed yellow-tan ﬁbrotaity tissue without
additional discrete nodulariiy. No lymph node tissue is appreciated along the lateral periphery. Sectioning
through the remaining two strips of skin demnsirate unremarkable ﬁbroiatty out surfaces. Representative
sections are submitted.

Cassette summary:

A1) nipple,

A2). medial and lateral extension of skin,

A3) upper inner quadrant, “slab 3.

A4) upper inner quadrant. slab 5, adjacent to tumor,

A5) upper inner quadrant, tumor and superior superﬁcial surgical margin, slab 6,

Ali-A7) upper inner quadrant, tumor and superior superﬁcial surgical margin. contiguous sections, slab 5,
A8) upper inner quadrant, deep margin adjacent to tumor. slabs 6-7,

A9) upper inner quadrant-central superior. adjacent to tumor, slab 8,

A10-A11) lower inner quadrant, slabs 4 and 6. respectively.

At 2-A13) lower outer quadrant. slabs 9 and t 1 . respectively.

At t—Ai 5) upper outer quadrant, slabs 9 and 11 , respectively.

A1 6A1 7’) representation of separate strips of skin and subcutaneous fat, two pieces each.-

8. Part Bis left axillary sentinel lymph node (frozen section). initially received in the fresh state for
frozen section/touch prep analysis is a 6.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 out part of yellow-tan fatty sot! tissue. initial
sectioning reveals a singie fatty pink and tan lymph node candidate, 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Two
touch preparation slides are forwarded for microscopic evaluation. Further examination of the fat reveals
possible additional lymph node tissue up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The iargest lymph node is
entirely submitted for routine histology with a sentinel node protocol performed in 81 and E32, an
additional/residual lymph node tissue candidacy is submitted in 83 and 54 for routine histology. %

C. Part C is additionai anterior margin - left. initially received in the fresh state is a 15 gram elliptical
excision of wrinkled , tan-brown skin and subcutaneous fat, 11 .t x 2.6 x 1.5 cm. The margins are submitted
unorientad: the possible outer margin is now marked blue and the remaining surgical margins are marked
black. Sectioning demonstrates glistening, admixed yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue without discrete nodularity
or grossly unusual areas of change suggestive of residual or invasive tumor component. Representative
section are submitted for microscopic evaluation in 61-65 (six piece

Microscgpic Qescg‘gtion:
A. - C.) Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis

rendered. The sentinel nodes (part B) were evaluated by H&E leveis and cytolteratin immunostain.

Controls are appropriate.
Case is Page 5
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

Page 516 _ Page 5

. MﬁMw—f'm

 

, Patient:

 

 

 

C858 #T

 

 

HNAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

(me-18

m vmry Tum-Jr Sue

”IPA/'1

Cu:
ﬂew iewe:

 

Case #. Page 6
Primed: END OF REPORT (FINAL)

Page SIB ‘: Page 6

