H... Ana--.» . “m a . .- a, I

*2. . ”Mam“... - r . x.»

Page 2 of it . .I-

 
  
 

DATE OF DISCHARGE:
UUID:7AE1E138-C824-45‘7-MB7-F125748DA14D ,\
m IIIn"ﬁll?IAIiIFIJuiIAIlITﬁiI‘iiﬁili’l'i‘llImmIIIII'IIﬁl‘I’IﬁlIted
TO :
R llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

mm Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

PathologyConsullah'on Rupert ' ' '
Final

CASE:

ANATOMIC PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS:
Urtnary bladder, latt lateral wall, transurethral resectlon of bladder tumor
- Papillary urolhellal carcinoma, hlglt grade, Invaalve wltlt aquagggaartd
glanétllartllftammlatlon "" "
Tumor invades extensively into Iamlna proprla and muscularls mucosa
wlth focal invasion tnlo the muscularts proprta, approximately 5% at
tumor with mlcropaplllary pattern
- Lymphovascular Invasion noted

Prostatlc urethra. transurethral biopsy ’3
~ Bartlgn uralhellum wllh chronlc lnflammatlon / w- 0

» Chronic nroslatltls wlth calcification: . I ,2 ,4 :4;
Strumal nudule am”: 9’7“” ”M" 3., [Sf/3
Na atypla or malignancy .

51h: Malawi/4 Arm can»

42%»

PATHOLOGIST:
l have nevi-wed this mat-rill and conﬁrm the report. listened by electronic slgnatun on: .

MATERIAL:
Bladder tumor. left lateral wall
Prostalic urethra

    

' page" 1 of 3
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

“no- ,«a,-w . . .

BATE OF DISCHARGE:

Page 3 of u _ - us

 

DATE OF SERVICE:
Pathology Conaulteion Report
Final
CASE:
”STORY:

male with ore-op diagnosis is bladder cancer.

GROSS:
A - Received in formalin labeled “bladder tumor, left lateral wall" is a 5.0 x 4.5 x 2.3 cm
aggregate of multiple pieces of irregular tan-pink friable tissue which is submitted in late in

cassettes A1 -A14.

B - Received in formalin labeled "prostatic urethra“ are two irregular tan~pink rubbery
tissues both averaging 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. Each specimen is bisected and submitted in its

entirety in cassettes Bt«B2.

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination of the transurethral resection of the left lateral bladder wall tumor
reveals a high grade papillary urothellal carcinoma which in some areas has an inverted
pattern. The tumor shows extensive multifocal invasion into the lamina propria and the
muscularis propria with local invasion into the muscularis propria. Additionally,
lymphovascular invasion is also seen. Approximately 5% of the tumor also has a
micropapiliary pattern. The tumor additionally shows multilocal extensive areas of
squannus as well as glandular differentiation: \w—“ w"
Examination of the prostatic urethral tissue reveals benign urothelium with undertying
chronic inflammation and benign prostatic tissue with some mild chronic prostatitis as well
as a alromal nodule. Urolhelial dysplasia or malignancy is not noted. Prostaiio
intraepithelial neoplasia or malignancy is seen.

    

Page 2 of 3
SURGICAL PATl'tOLOGY

“w... Wm «W.s_~.‘._.t..__4..v a..- ..

.. ._ .Ml-t

DATE OF DiSCHARGE:

    

D TOR:

DATE OF SERVICE:
Pathology Cumultaion Report
Final
CASE:
COMMENT:

The vascular invasion is conﬁrmed on 0240 and 0031 staining. This is distinct from the
micropapillary pattern which is noted in approximately 5% ol the invasive tumor.

lNTRADEPARTMENTAL CONSULTATION:

 

age 0
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

