UUID:aneabler-6eF5—4417-BDsE-F2BBCA843EEB
TcoA—ss—Msx-au-pa Re

 

ISDRGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

acted
||||||

 

___c_opu_e- “903

adenocotrcmom) M0 S

$34013
LPre—Op Diagnosis SAC 3 \ \«kﬂa \owc r [OR
ung mass . .
Post—Op Diagnosis , C3 .3
Same q “17’ %
Clinical History 31>

Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Five parts

Container labeled '-1 - level 10' lymph node left lung"
is a 2.0 x 1,5 x 1.0 cm of gray black focally shaggy ﬂeshy
appearing tissue fragments entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled ’— 2 - level 7 lymph node left lung"
is a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm of gray black ﬂeshy tissue fragments
entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled '“3 - level 5 lymph node left lung"
is a 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm of gray yellow to brown black ﬂeshy and
ﬁbrofatty appearing tissue fragments which are entirely submitted
in a single cassette.

Container labeled '“4 < left lower lobe left lung“ is a
129 gram previously partially sectioned portion of recognizable
pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with left lower lobe of
lung. The specimen as received is 15.0 x 7.9 x 12.0 cm and as its
margin of resection multiple staple lines one of which appears to be
a bifurcated tertiary bronchus. The pleura is slightly wrinkled tan
pink with focal anthracotic streaking. The specimen has been
partially sectioned at the apex to reveal a subpleural 2.6 x 2.2 x

1.9 cm previously sectioned nodular lesion with a gritty focally
anthraootic streaked gray tan ﬁbrotic cut surface. The lesion

grossly extends to but not through the pleura. This is noted at its
nearest point 2.9 cm from the bronchial margin. An apparent
bronchial connection is identified. The specimen is received after
tissue harvest for genomic study. Within the specimen container are
three tissue cassettes labeled "he remaining
parenchyrna is spongy pink red with moderate anthracotic streaking.
No additional gross lesions are identiﬁed. Representative sections
are submitted labeled as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin. B
through E - remaining lesion and surrounding tissue, F - random
uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled _5 - level 6 lymph node left lung" =
is a 1.6 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm elongated. portion of gray ten to pink yellow
fleshy and ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which are entirely

submitted in a single cassette.

Microscopic Descri tion:
The slides labeled are examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis

Left lung. left lower lobe (lobectomy):

Specimen integrity: Specimen intact. margins can be evaluated.

Specimen iaterality: Left.

Tumor site: Left lower lobe.

Tumor size: 2.6 cm in greatest diameter.

Focality: Unifocal.

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Grade: Moderately differentiated.

Visceral pleural invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Tumor extension: Not identiﬁed.

Surgical margin status:

Bronchial margin: No carcinoma identified.
Vascular margin: Not applicable.

Parenchymai margin: Not applicable.

Parietal pleural margin: Not applicable.

Chest wall margin: Not applicable. -

Visceral pleura: Carcinoma extends up to but not into and through

visceral pleura.

Distance of invasive carcinoma; from closest margin: Less than 1 mm

from the visceral pleural margin.

Treatment effect". Unknown.

Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular space

invasion identiﬁed.

Lymph nodes: Carcinoma identiﬁed within one of two panbronchial
lymph nodes (1/2) (see comment). See below diagnoses for
remaining lymph nodes. '

Other ﬁndings:

Emphysematous changes.
Left lung, level 10 lymph nodes:

Multiple fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus
histiocytosis and anthrasilicosis. no metastatic carcinoma
identified (see comment).

Left 7 lymph node. left lung:

Fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus histiocytosis

and anthrasilicosls, no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.
Level 5 lymph node. left lung:

Fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus histiocytosis

and anthrasiiicosis, no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.
Level 6 lymph node, left lung:

 

 

Two fragments of lymph node demonstrating reactive sinus
histiocytosis and anthrasilicosis, no metastatic carcinoma
identiﬁed.

Stage: thb N1(see comment) '

Comments
Two peribronchial lymph nodes were identiﬁed within specimen #4,

 

 

  

demonstrates a small fame of adenocarcinoma. Therefore, this is
staged as a pm.

The level 10 lymph nodes left lung, level 7 lymph nodes left lung.
and level 5 lymph nodes left lung were all received fragmented and
therefore an accurate node count cannot be performed.

An elastic stain was performed which demonstrates the adenocarcinoma
to extend up to but not into or through the visceral pleura (with
appropriate positive control).

At the request of the undersigned pathologist. these slides have

been additionally reviewed by Dr. - who concurs with the

diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the ~

<Siﬁn Out Dr. Signature>

ﬂerh »

liagnmis Discrepancy ‘“

'iinury Tumor Sire Diszrenancy

H

"PM Discrepancy

‘rior Malignancy ﬁery

lual/Svnrhronous Prime I -
ry N .

Lu: is l i it':

leview m, ,

   
    
  
    

 

