 

   
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
  

Patient Name Accession #:

Med, Rec, 1;; Dale 0! Procedure:
DOB: Dale of Receipt
Gender. Date of Repen:
Rel, Physician: Accovnt I‘ll:

Patienz Address: Billing Type:

Additional Copy to;
Ref. Source:

4: Righlarirenaigland paracavaland r r

is at Histo :
large right renal mass and retroperiloneat lymphadenepaihy wlih eulside bx showing coliecling duct CA.
5: Lymph nodes. para-acme. excision

Sgocimens Submitted:
1: Kidney righl. leialnephrectom
lph nodes. excision-
6: Lymph nodes. right suprahiiar. excl
DiAGNOSlS:
1. Kidney, right. total nephrectem
Tumor Type:

2 Lymph nodes inieraorlacaval resacr

3: Lymph nodes. Enteraodocavaiﬁz excision
Renal cell carcinoma - Unclassiﬁed type
High grade. See comment

 

 

Turner Size:
Greatest diameler is 9.2 cm.

Local invasion (for renal conical types):
Extends into renai pelvis
involves renei hiEar {at

Local Invasion (for renal peEvic tumors}:
involves renal hiler fat

Renal Vein invasion:
Not ideniiﬁed
Tumor is presenl wiihin medium sized vessels in ihe renal hiium

Surgical Margins:
Free 01 tumor
NewNeoplasiéc Kidney:
Unremarkable

Adrenai Gland:
Not idenlilied

Lymph Nodes:
No! identiﬁed

Staging for renat cell carcinomaloncecyloma:
p'i3b Tumor grossly extends into lhe renal vein(s) or vena cava below the diaphragm

 

Page i of 4

 

 

 

 

 

Comment: The tumor cells are reactive for C010. RCC. racemase. and e—cadherin. They are negative for CK7, CK20, and
348E12. Despite the unusual morphologic and immunohistochemical features. this is likely to represent a socalied
collecting duct carcinoma.

2. Lymph nodes, interaortecaval and presacrai. excisior
Lymph Nodes:

Matted lymph nodes posrtive for metastatic carcinoma

3. Lymph nodes, lnteraorlocaval #2, excision-
Lyrnph Nodes:

Matted lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma

4. Right adrenal gland. paraoaval and retrocsval lymph nodes. excision
Adrenal gland negative for carcinoma. ‘

   

Matted lymph nodes positive metastatéé carcinoma. _7
Three of eleven lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinom
5. Lymph nodes, para-aortic, excision

Lymph Nodes:

Not involved

Number of nodes exenalneoIS

B Lymph nodes, right suprahiiar. excision-
Lymph Nodes:

Not involved
Number of nodes examined: 10
Minute fragment ol adrenal cortical tissue

 

lATl’EST THAT THE ABOVE GIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMWAWOH OF THE SLIDES {ANOIOR OTHER MATERmt). AND TitAT i HAVE

REVlEWED AND APPROVES THIS REPORT

 

Special Studles:

Result Special Stain
CK?
CK20
348E12
C2010
RCC
MUCIN
E~CADHER1N
NEG CONT
EMM RECUT
RACEMASE
NEG CONT
ill/1M RECUT
CK5/6
CKB
CKlB

 

Comment

 

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

 

Gross Description:

   

l}. The specimen is received lresh lebeted "right kidney tumor" a ed ureter, renal vessels and
perinephric fat weighing 567 g in total. The kidney measures 11.4 x 9.2 x 7.5 cm. The attached ureter measures if! cm in length
and 0.4 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures l2 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter
margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not identified. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a
heterogeneous mass centered in the cortex of the midsectton oi the kidney measuring 9.2 x 7.5 x 7.0 cm. Parts of the tumor are
myxoid and gelatinous, while other areas shew tan—yeltow ﬂeshy tissue. The tumor extends into the capsule of the kidney and
pushes into the hiium with local extension into the renal pelvis. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown
parenchyma. with a well-deﬁned corticomeduttery iun'ctlon. The cortex measures 0.9 cm and the calyces appear normal. ‘ lymph
nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric fat. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:
FSC-lrozen sectiOn control
UVM —- ureterat and vessel margins

Tu tumor
THFu tumor with hilar tat
TSP -- tumor with sinus fat or

TK -- tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -~ renal pelvis representative sections .
K ~~ representative sections kidney ‘
PLN~possible lymph nodes

2). The specimen is received in formalin labeled "interaortocaval lymph nodes". lt consists of a tan soft tissue mass measuring
5.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm. The cut surface shows a tan and yellow soit tissue mass with necrosis and hemorrhage. Representative
sections are submitted.

Summary sections:

3). The specimen is received in iormaiin labeled "interaortocaval lymph nodes number two. it consists of a tan soft tissue
fragment measuring 4.1 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. The specimen is sectioned to reveal a tan and yellow necrotic mass. Representative
sections are submitted.

Summary oi sections:
ST-soft tissue

 

vi). The specimen is received fresh labeled "right adrenal gland, parscavel and retrocavai lymph nodes". it consists of an
adrenal gland and attached soft tissue weighing 69 g and measuring 7.5 x 6.5 x 3.4 cm in overall. The adrenal gland measures
5.8 x 4.1 x 1.0 cm. The cut surface of the adrenal gland is grossly unremarkable. The soft tissue is sectioned to reveal matted
grossly positive lymph nodes. Multipte smaller lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from it to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections of the adrenal gland are submitted along with representative sections of the matted lymph nodes. The
smelter lymph nodes are entirely submitted. Tissue is given for TPS.

Summary oi sections:
AG-acirenal gland
MLN-matted lymph nodes
Liv—lymph nodes

5). it consists of Fatty soft tissue measuring 3.5 x t5 3: 1.2 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified ranging from 0.3 to 0.8 cm in
greatest dimension. The tissue is entirely submitted.

Summary sections:
LN-lyrnph nodes

 

Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

 

 

6). The specimen is received in formalin tabeted “right suprahiiar tymph node". it Consists of multiple fragments oi tan and fatty
soft tissue measuring 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm in eggiegete. Muftipte tymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 to 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The tissue is entirely submitted. it

 

r

Summary of sections:
LNEymph nodes

  

Summagg of Sections:

Part 1: Kidney, right, total nephrectom

Biock Sect. Site

1 [so 1

t k 1

1 pin 1

t rp 1

8 t 8

t lit? 1

1 ER 1

1 tet t

1 uvm 1

Part 2: Lymph nodes, tnteraortacavat and presacral, excisio-
Block Sect. Site PCs

2 st 2

Part 3: Lymph nodes, intereortocavai #2. excisio-
Biock Sect. Site PCS

2 3t 2

Part 4: Right adrenal gland, paracavai and retrocavai iymph nbcies, excisi-
Btock Sect. Site P03

1 39 2

3 in 3

2 min 2

   

Part 5: Lymph nodes, paraeortic, excision

  

Btock Sect. Site PCS

2 in 2

Part 6: Lymph nodes, right suprahiiar. excision-
Biock Sect. Site P08

2 in 2

lutraepemtivu Consultation:

The diagnoses given in this section pertain oniy to the tissue sempie examined at the time at the intraoperetive consultation

1) FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, CANNOT IYPE.-
PERMANENT DtAGNOSiS: SAME

 

 

Page 4 of 4 END OF REPORT

 

 

