UUID:10F97F63-EE6F-44BD- 9851- 8AM21FR55e753ac

  

TC-GA TS- A7PB- a1A- P-R Date Printed:
lll llllllllllllllllillllllllllllllll‘lili“ 32:: m
e: Jrears Sex: Male Accession Nb
Illllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||Illllll|l||l|lll|l||||ll||l| , physician:
Copy to:

 

I Surgical Farﬂalayylzagarl I
laws—3,

WHDS

8905.313

Clinical Information 9%) 9/2 :15
year old male with mesothelioma, Left Thoracotomy, Pleurectomy, PDT, Broncnoscopy

Final Diagnosis

1. HS:
Section of rib with bone marrow, no tumor seen.
Ftbroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle, no tumor seen.

2. LYMPH NODE, STATION 10:
One fragment of lymph node. no tumor seen (0/1).

3 LYMPH NODE STATION 8:
Two out of two lymph node showing small focus of metastatic mesothelioma (2/2) continued by CKS/G and calretinin

immunostalns

4. LYMPH MODE. STATION 6:
Three out of tour lymph nodes showing metastatic mesotnelioma (3‘4).

5. LYMPH NODE, PERlCARDlAL;
Two out of two lymph nodes snowing metastatic mesothelioma (212).

6. LYMPH NOOE LEVEL7:
One lymph nodes showing metastatic meeothelioma (1/1).

' 7. LYMPH NODE, PHRENIC NODE:
One lymph node. no tumor seen (0/1).

8. LYMPH NODE, ANTERlOR HILAR:
One lymph node, no tumor seen (0/1}.

9. LYMPH MODE, LEVEL 2:
One out of two lymph nodes showing metastatic mesothelioma (1/2).

10. LYMPH NODE, LEVEL 5:

One out of four lymph nodes showing metastatic mesothelloma (1/4).
Adipose tissue with local presence of mesothelioma, epithelioid type, confirmed by CK5/6 imm‘unostain.

Name Page 1 of 5
MRN:

H. PHRENlC NERVE:
Peripheral nerve fibers, no tumor seen.

Date Printed:
Date Collected
Date Received
as: years Sex: Male Accession Nail
Physician:
Copy to:

 
  

 

Pathology Hagar!

   

Sara/cal

   

Fibroadipose tissue with local presence of mesothelioma. epithelioid type. confirmed by CKSIS and calretinin
immunoslains.

12. POSTERIOR lNTERCOSTAL:
Two out of two lymph nodes showing metastatic mesothelioma (2/2).

13. PLEURA:

Biphasic malignant mesothelioma (~90% epitheliold and 40% sarcomatoid) with focal necrosis.
Tumor involves skeletal muscle and superﬁcial lung tissue.

See synoptic report.

14. PEFilCARDlAL MASS:

Biphasic malignant mesothelioma (~20% epithelloid and ~80% sarcom atold) with local necrosis.
Tumor involves underlying superficial lung tissue.

inked pericardlal margin is free oi tumor.

See comment and synoptic report.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:
(Electronic signature)
Veriﬁcation Date:

Note

lmmunohistochemical stains are performed with adequate controls (see disclaimer). The tumor cells are positive tor
CK516, calretinln. 02—40 and WT~l; the tumor cells are negative for TTFJ and Mocai.
This immunoproiile supports the above diagnosis.

Slides 10A, 14B and 140 reviewed with

Disclaimer:
The above in—vitro lHC tests may have used reagents labeled for NO (in Vitro Diagnostic Use). lUO (lnvestigational Use
Only) and/or RUO (Research Use Only) and have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug '
Administration. However. the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for ASP! class t tests
intended to provide pathologists with adiunctlve information to assist their morphologic evaluation. The tests using MO or
lUO reagents were developed and their performance characteristics were validated for diagnostic use by the

. This laboratory is
regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments or 1988 (CLlA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity
clinical tests. These Class I ASR tests are not intended to provide diagnostic, prognostic, predictive or therapeutic
iniorm atlon that is not directly confirmed by routine histopathologlc internal or external control specimens.

Name» Page 2 of 5
Milk.

Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received:
. years Sex: Male Accession No!
Locs. Physician:

Copy to:

  

 

l Surgical Par/Inlay! Holler! I

Synoptic Report

Site:

Left

Histologlc Type

Biphasic mesotheiioma

Margins

Cannot be assessed

Lymph nodes

Specify: Number examined: 20
Number involved: 12

Pathologic Staging: pT3N2ile

Gross Description
The specimen is received in 14 parts in formalin in a container labeled with the patients name and medical record
number.

Specimen ill received in formalin labeled "Rib" and consists of two ragged and irregular fragments of fan~white to tan~
brown bone, grossly consistent with portions of rib, measuring 1.1 and 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment
is serially sectioned and the specimen is submitted entirely in cassette 1A following decalcification.

Specimen #2 received in formalin labeled “Station 10" and consists of a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm gray~biack, irregular soil tissue
fragment. which is submitted in toto in cassette 2A.

Specimen #3 received in formalin labeled "Station 8“ and consists of two lan~yellcw, irregular to nodular soft tissue
fragments measuring 0.7 and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The more nodular fragment is bisected to reveal tan~while,
dense cut surfaces. The larger fragment is submitted entirely in cassette 3A and the smaller, intact fragment is submitted
in toto in cassette 38.

Specimen #4 received in formalin labeled "Station 6“ and consists of four gray-black to tan—yellow, irregular to vaguely
nodular soft tissue fragments ranging from 0.8 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The two larger fragments are bisected and

submitted entirely in cassettes 4A and 48, respectively, and the remaining two soft tissue fragments are submitted in told
in cassette 4C.

Specimen #5 received in formalin labeled "Pericardial Node“ and consists of two tan~yeilow to tan-white. irregular to

nodular soft tissue fragments each measuring 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Each fragment is bisected to reveal lan-
white, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes 5A and 58. respectively.

Name Page 3 of 5
MRN:

Date Printed: ‘
Date Collected :
Date Received:
- years Sex: Male Accession N
Loo: Physician:
Copy to:

  

v

I Surgical Patna/ea! ”apart i

 

Specimen #6 received in formalin labeled “Level 7" and consists of a 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm tan-gray, nodular soft tissue
fragment, which is bisected to reveal tan-white to gray-black, firm cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in
cassette 6A.

Specimen #7 received in formalin labeled "Phrenic Node" and consists of a 2.3 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm tan-yellow to gray-black,
nodular soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal gray-black to red-brown, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is
submitted entirely in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 labeled “Anterior Hilar Node“ and consists of a 2.0 x 1.3 x 1.1 cm gray-black, nodular soft tissue fragment,
which is bisected to reveai gray-black to red-brown. dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette
8A.

Specimen #9 received in formalin labeled "Level 2" and consists of two tan-yeliow to gray-black, irregular to nodular soft
tissue fragments measuring 0.8 and 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The larger fragment is bisected and the specimen is
submitted entirely in cassette 9A.

Specimen #10 received in formalin labeled "Level 5" and consists of two grey-black to tan—yellow, nodular soft tissue
fragments measuring 1.3 and 2.3 cm in greatest dimension. The larger fragment is bisected to reveal tannyellow to red-
brown, dense out surfaces. The larger fragment is submitted entirely in cassette 10A, and the remainder of the specimen
is submitted in toto in cassette 108. -

Specimen #11 received in formalin labeled "Phrenic Nerve" and consists of a 2.5 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm tan-white to tanoyeilow,
irregular to vaguely cylindrical soft tissue fragment, which is submitted in toto in cassette 11A.

Specimen #12 received in formalin labeled ”Posterior lntercostal“ and consists of two tan-yellow to gray-black, irregular
soft tissue fragments measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension each. The specimen is submitted in tale in cassette 12A.

Specimen #13 received in formalin labeled "Pleura" and consists of a 638.4 g. 21.5 x 18.4 x 7.5 cm ragged and irregular
portion of tan-yellow to tan-white, rubbery soft tissue, grossly consistent with a portion of pleura. There are areas of red-

brown. rubbery muscle and tan-yellow, lobulated adipose tissue attached. Focal areas are diffusely thickened and reveal
tan-white. dense out surfaces, measuring up to 19.0 cm in greatest dimension. Focal areas are calcified. Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes 13A through 13F.

Specimen #14 received in formalin labeled "Pericardial Mass" and consists of a 4.5 x 3.6 x 2.1 cm irregular portion of fan
to tan-yellow, cauterized, firm soft tissue. One surface is covered by a 3.9 x 3.5 cm portion of tan‘pink to tan-white,
glistening, focally ragged soft tissue which per the surgeon denotes the deep margin facing the heart (inked black). The
remaining surface displays a portion which was removed by the surgeon for research purposes. Sectioning reveals a 3.9 x
2.9 x 1.8 cm tan-white to tan-yellow, firm mass which grossly abuts the black inked deep margin facing the heart. There is
oniy a small amount of tan~yellow to tan—white, uninvolved soft tissue identified. Representative sections are submitted in

Name. Page 4 of 5
MRN

Date Printed: 1
Date Coilected
Date Received

Am: years Sex: Male Accession No!
Loc.: ! Physician:
Copy to:

I Surgical fztllalay'yﬂanart I

cassettes 14A through 14E.

  

 

Dictatcd by:

Pathologisﬂs)

    

Diagnosis Dacrepmty
, V.r_—~- v Wm arvlumbr Siié nlSthnaDCV
HWAA Discrepancy
Prmr Malignanw History
\
: l
D IL/iym‘uonaus Prlgriry No

Name' Page 5 of 5
MR;

‘3‘" is (circle):

