UUID:80EDB29A-262A-486D-831A-EAI15FA8A362

 

 

Requesting Doctor’s information: H II M l I TCGA'C'R‘ASJE‘MA‘PR Red

muumImlmnmmlnmmmmlm "t“
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂllll'Im'I"I"

I
lllllllﬂ”IllIIIlllllllllllllmllﬂﬂllllllﬂllllllﬂll

 

 

 

HISTOPATHOLOGY FOR REVIEW

This case was shown a: the endocrine clinicopathological meeting. I agree with
:ﬁagnosis of adrenal cortical carcinoma. The carcinoma is the same as
that present in the recurrence from

REPORTING PATHOLOGIST:
(Elecrmnic Signature)

IéDo «:3

a mongom, Mama—1 (Zn/{7&1
9375/5

5m»: @Amw ewwm
474. 5
9a) Ibo/L3

 

00F“

 

inJagﬁ A: c

I

~<QOFO$~41¢1

r‘bﬁwgoqiﬁ'Zﬁ

QVOEWib'W

not:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necelved: <
ﬂowers; 3mm
Left adrenal gland.

GWECAUNFOHMATGON:
Left adrenal mass. Clinically Cushiog‘s.

MAGRDSGOPIO DESCRIPTION:

Specimen {labelled ”left adrenalectomy') consists of a. 459. ragged and
disrupted piece of firm can tissue 60 x 35 x 40mm, with a non—intact

capsule. Visible from the external surface are multiple nodular protuberans.
in addition to orangish/yellow portions of Residual adrenal tissue. One of
the nodules (included in the total measurement) itself measures 26 x 20 x 15mm
and attached by thin membranous tissue only to the bulk of. the tissue, and has
a homogenous tan out. surfaco. The main portion of tissue largely comrisas a
nodule 35 x 35 x 30mm, which has a. compressed rim of adrenal tissue at one
edge, and has a. remaining multinodular appearance with cream specks but:
predominantly light tan in colour.

(Representative sections: Aim — almost separate nodule,- M-AS -
representative large tumour maas; A10 - more normal appearing adrenal from one
edge of. the lesion with~ adjacent fibrbfatty tissue) .

Macro Dascript ion by:

311683860”: WMAﬂON: _

Sections show a nodular and diffuse adrenocortical tmour. Most of: the cells
are generally lipid depleted and are arranged in nests, trabeculaa and sheets.
There is wide variation in the nuclear size and shape but generally it is
moderate with focal areas showing severe plenmorphism (mutation grade 2—3).
Some cells contain PAS positive diastase resistant globules. Thazo are
numerous mitoses (up to lzlthp£3 but atypical mitoses are rare. Extensive
areas of necrosis are present. The nodules are separated by thin and thick
fibrous bands.

I‘he tumour has a disrupted fibrous capsule. Tumour cells are seen
infiltrating through the capSule in focal areas. The painted resection margin
is focally involved by tumour cells (blocks M 5: A8) . There is evidence of
sinusoidal permeation' and endothelial lined space permeation {blocks M 8:

AB) . Occasional microscopic foci of infiltration into fatty tissue are seen.

Scanty remnant non-neoplastic adrenal tissue is present at the periphery of
the tumour.

 

Thank youjbr reﬁtting this patent 9396: I .4- Condom

 

 

 

 

Sulﬁah HEMALE

 

Conic-Ix

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Received:

amuUNOCHEMﬁﬁRY:

The tumour cells are positive for synaptcphysin and melon—A. They are
negative for AEl/AEB. They give weak focal staining with CD10.

The staining characters are consistent with adrenooortical tumour.

commswn '

Frequent mitoses with occasional atypical mitoses, nuclear pleomcrphism,
endothelial lined space permeation and necrosis are supportive of the
diaunosis of carcinoma.

Dr has also seen this case and agrees with the above.

:nAEmKMﬂS
LEFT mam MASS: ADRENOCORTICAL CARCINOMA.
{stems are con-mam) -

T93ODO, M80103

(Elenfrnﬂic algnatqra)

 

 

 

 

 

Titan} mu lin- nfwn‘na ’55! mﬁmf ﬁnna- 2 Kim M ﬂan-n9

