TCGA—18w3416

 

    

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
* Addended *

S?ECIMEN(S) RECEIVED
1.‘Lymph—Node: 8T9 Inf Pulm Ligament/-
2. Lymph node: LT TB ANGLE STlOL
3. Lymph node: sump node/QS

:_ LUNG: Lt upper lobe broncial margin-
u. Lymph node: lymph node neck '

DIAGNOSIS

l. - 3. 8T9 inferior pulmonary ligament, LT TB angle STlOL, sump node,
lymph node dissection:

— Negative for malignancy, lymph node.'(x3)

4. heft upper lobe lung lobectomy:

— Squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated, 8 cm in greatest
diameter. (pTz) .

- Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor.

- All 5 lobar lymph nodes negative for tumor.

— 2 of 6 Segmental lymph node involved by tumor. (le)

~ 1 subsegmental lymph node negative for tumor.

— Many lymph nodes show marked anthracosis with nodular fibrosis.
— Remaining lung parenchyma shows anthracotic deposits in wall of
terminal/respiratory bronchioles.

5. Lymph node neck biopsy:
~ Normal thyroid tissue, negative for malignancy.

SYNOPTIC DATA

“oecimen Type: Lobectomy
xterality: Left
Tumor Site: LUL

Page: 1 of 5

 

 

 

 

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 8.0 cm

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT2: Tumor with any of the following

features of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension;

involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the

viscaral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis

that extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung

le: Metastasis in ipsilateral

peribronchial and/or ipsilateral hilar lymph-nodes, including

intrapulmonary nodes involved by direct extension of the primary tumor
' Lymph node stations

nvolved: 13L (Left segmental)
_ pMX: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma
Direct Extension of Tumor: ane identified
Blood Vessel Invasion: Absent
Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: Marked anthracosis of

peribronchial lymph nodes

COMMENT
The segmental lymph nodes involvement could be by direct invasion.

 

CLINICAL HISTORY

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph—Node: 8T9

Inf Pulm Ligament/gs". Consists of one lymph node covered by few

Fragments of yellow~tan adipose tissue, measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm;
ceived in 10% buffered formalin. Cross sections of the lymph node are

nomogeneously black and firm.

Page: 2 of

5

 

 

 

 

_- specimen is bisected and submitted in toto

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph node: LT TB
ANGLE STlOL". Consists of one lymph node covered by few fragments of
yellow~tan adipose tissue, measuring 1.8 x 1.1 X'0.3 cm: received in 10%
buffered formalin. Cross sections of the lymph node are homogeneously
black and firm. . '

2A specimen is bisected and submitted in toto

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph node: sump

node/Q8". Consists of two pieces of oval, gray—black, soft tissue
ragments each measuring up to 1.0 cm; received fresh. This is examined
- intraoperative consultation by frozen section, on the entire specimen

in one block.

3A frozen section block, resubmitted toto

4. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "LUNG: Lt upper
lobe bronchial margin The specimen is received fresh and '
subsequently placed in to 10% buffered formalin. It consists of a left
upper lobe of lung, measuring 16.5 x 15.5 x 4.0 cm. The pleural surface
is focally hemorrhagic and ranges in color from pink—tan to purple,
showing diffuse areas of black pigmentation. Some fibrous adhesions are
also noted. An area of infarct/ ? strip of parietal pleura is noted,
measuring 4.3 cm in length x 1.5 cm in diameter. The surface of this
area is homogeneously white, smooth and firm. Cross—sections reveal a
well-circumscribed tumor, measuring 8.0 x 3.8 x 3.3 cm. Cross sections
of the tumor are homogeneously white—tan and firm. Immediately adjacent
to the tumor a small yellow, firm area is noted. The tumor is located
approximately 1.5 cm from the bronchial resection margin, 1.0 cm from the
closest pleural surface and 0.7 cm from the pulmonary artery resection
margin. Further sectioning reveals multiple small—indurated areas, which
are better palpated than seen. The bronchi all appear slightly and
dilated and partially calcified. Cross sections_of the remaining lung
parenchyma are homogeneously brown—tan and grossly unremarkable.
Multiple probable lymph nodes are identified, ranging from 0.3 to 2.0
cm. The bronchial resection margin has been taken on face and submitted
for intraoperative consultation by frozen section. Two large pieces of
lun tissue has also been taken for an asbestos fiber count (requested by
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
frozen section block, resubmitted
13 pulmonary artery resection margin, en face

Page: 3 of 5

 

4C representative sections of pleural adhesions
4D—4E tumor with ? parietal pleura/area of infarct
4F tumor with closest pleural surface
4G—4H tumor with adjacent normal parenchyma
4r representative sections of fibrous/indurated areas
4J—4K representative sections of normal lung parenchyma
4L one repreSentative section from base of lung
4M representative sections of various indurated areas
4N—4P one bisected probable lymph node are block, lobar region
4Q—4R one trisected probable lymph node, lobar region
4s—4T two probable lymph nodes per block, segmental region
[ '-4V one trisected probable lymph node per block, segmental region
iN—ax two probable lymph nodes per block, subsegmental region

 

 

 

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph node: lymph
node neck". Consists of one unoriented, irregularly shaped piece of
yellow~tan adipose tissue, measuring 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm; received in 10%
buffered formalin. Cross sections reveal one probable lymph node,
measuring 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The cut surface of the lymph node is
homogeneously tan and firm.

5A specimen is bisected and submitted in toto

QUICK SECTION
033A: "sump" node: Lymph nodes, negative for malignancy
084A: LUL: bronchial resection margin: negative for malignancy.

 

Addendum Comment
A large number of ferruginous (asbestos) bodies are found in practically

all sections with lung parenchyma tissue.

Page: 4 of 5

 

 

 

 

Page: 50f 5

 

