 
  

TCGA—44—3398

 

SPECIMEN

Lymph node level 10
Right lower lobe
Lymph node level 7
. Lymph node level 3
Lymph node R4

H U 0 w 5

CLINICAL NOTES

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received in formalin, labeled "lymph node level 10”
and
consists of multiple pieces of black soft tissue measuring 2 cm in
greatest aggregate dimension. AS—l.
B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled ”right lower
lobe" and consists of a lobe weighing 266 grams and
measuring 16 x 12 x 7 cm. There is a subtotal probable mass
measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 2 cm. There is a puckered appearance over the
mass. Portions of the specimen are taken for research purposes.
Additional sections after fixation. There is a stapled margin on
one
side of the specimen measuring 5 cm in length and there is a
stapled
bronchial margin as well.
C. Received in formalin, labeled "lymph node level 7" and
consists of multiple pieces of black soft tissue
measuring
2 cm in greatest aggregate dimension. AS—l.
D. Received in formalin, labeled ”lymph node level 3" and
consists of a piece of white and black and yellow soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.5 X 0.3 cm. ASHl.
E. Received in formalin, labeled ”lymph node — R4” and
consists of multiple pieces of yellow and black soft

tissue
measuring 3 x 3 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. AS—2.

 

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of ten lymph node
pieces.

8.

Tumor type: Non—small cell carcinoma
Tumor grade: 3 out of 3
Mitotic Index: 1 mitoses/10 HPFs (l HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
Tumor size: 2.5 cm
Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
Pleura: Negative for malignancy
Vascular invasion: Absent
Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy
in

any of 3 lymph nodes
pTNM Stage: le N0
Non—tumorous lung: Mild to moderate emphysema

C. There‘s no evidence of malignancy in any of multiple lymph node

pieces.

Approximately 12 pieces are present.

D. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.

E. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 16 lymph node

pieces.

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node, level 10, biopsy: There is no evidence of
malignancy in any of ten lymph node pieces.

B. Lung,

right lower lobe, resection: Poorly differentiated

non—small cell carcinoma

 

 

DIAGNOSIS

in

C.Lymph node, level 7, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy

any of 12 lymph nodes pieces.

D. Lymph node, level 3, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy.

E. Lymph node, R4, biopsy: There's no evidence of malignancy in any
of 16 lymph nodes pieces.

 

——- End Of Report -——

 

