i
|/.

 

     

.—
FINAL ATHOLOGIC IAGNOSIS

A. Ovary and fallopian tube, right, salpingo—oophorectomy:

1. Ovary with serous carcinoma, poorly differentiated, FIGO grade III,
13.0 cm;

see comment.

2. Fallopian tube with metastatic serous carcinoma involving the
mucosa and

wall.

B. Uterus, left fallopian tube and ovary, total abdominal hysterectomy
and left

saipingo-oophorectomy:

-Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.

—Endometrium: Weakly proliferate pattern.

—Myometrium: Leiomyoma and adenomyosis.

-Serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.

-Left fallopian tube: No significant pathologic abnormality.

-Left ovary: Two microscopic foci of serous carcinoma, 0.2 cm and
0.35 cm.

~Right and left parametriai tissue: No significant pathologic
abnormality.

C. Lymph nodes, right pelvis, lymph node dissection:

1. No tumor identified in eighteen lymph nodes (0/18).

2. Focal benign endosalpingiosis in one lymph node.

D. Lymph nodes, right common iliac, lymph node dissection: No tumor
idenﬁﬁedin

ten lymph nodes (0/10).

E. Lymph nodes, right periaortic, lymph node dissection: No tumor
identified in three

lymph nodes (0/3). -

F. Lymph nodes, left pelvis, lymph node dissection: No tumor

identified in eighteen

lymph nodes (0/18).

G. Lymph nodes, left common iliac, lymph node dissection: No tumor

identified in two

lymph nodes (0/2).

H. Lymph nodes, left periaortic, lymph node dissection: No tumor

identified in eight

lymph nodes (0/8).

I. Omentum, #1, omentectomy: Microscopic focus of metastatic
”serous‘ca'rcinoma, “” ‘ '

 

 

J. Omentum, #2, omentectomy: Vascular fibroadipose tissue with focal
inflammation.
No tumor identified.
K. Soft tissue, "Left gutter", biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue with mild
chronic and acute
inflammation. No tumor identified.
L. Soft tissue, "Right gutter",
biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue with mild acute inflammation. No tumor
identified.
COMMENT:
Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Type of tumor: Serous carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: III.
3. Location of tumor: Bilateral (Right — 13.0 cm; Left — Two microscopic foci ~ 0.2 cm
and 0.35 cm (slides
[318 and 819).
4. Diameter of tumor: 13.0 cm.
5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Smooth.
6. Condition of capsule: Intact.
7. Appearance of cut surface: Multilocular cysts with papillary excrescences.
8. Color of solid areas: Tan.
9. Necrosis: Focal.
10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not identified.
i 11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Right fallopian tube — 1.0 cm (slide A9).
12. Pelvic lymph nodes: 0/48 contain metastatic tumor .
13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Omentum, 0.3 cm (slide 14).
14. Para-aortic lymph nodes: 0 of 11 contain metastatic tumor.
15. Peritoneal cytology: Positive. Cytology accession number:
16. Other significant findings: Endosalpingiosis in one lymph node (slide C4).
17. FIGO stage: IIIA.

18. TNM sta e: T3aNxM0.
#reviewed slides A1, A2, and I4 and concurs with the diagnosis.
mmuno 15 0c emica studies for ER, PR and Her—Z/neu on the tumor will be

perfOrmed and reported in an
addendum.

Specimen(s) Received
Page 2 of 5

A:Right adnexa (FS)
BzUterus, cervix and left adnexa (F8)
C:Right pelvic lymph nodes
D:Right common iliac lymph nodes
E:Right periaortic lymph nodes
F:Left pelvic lymph nodes
G:Left common iliac lymph nodes
H:Left periaortic lymph nodes
I:Omentum #1
J:Omentum #2

____i Mieftguttecbiopsy WW

 

L: Right gutter biopsy

 

 

FSl lAl Riiht adnexa, salpingo—oophorectomy: Serous tumor, of at least borderline.

B. Uterus, cervix, and left adnexa, total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy:

No gross tumor identified. (—

Clinical History

The patient is a _ with a 13~cm complex pelvic mass and
history of left breast

carcinoma, status post lumpectomy, lymph node dissection, and chemo-radiation.
She undergoes total

abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in twelve parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and
medical record number.

Parts C-L are received in formalin.

Part A, received fresh and additionally labeled "right adnexa,” consists of an ovary
with attached fallopian

tube that weigh 383.5 gm and measure 15.0 x 14.0 x 10.0 cm. The ovary capsule is
intact with

multiloculated cysts, and the external surface is smooth with no tumor or masses
seen on the surface.

Upon sectioning of the ovary, there are multiple papillary excrescences. There are no
hemorrhagic or

obvious necrotic areas. The cystic fluid is brown. The ovarian mass itself is ~13.0
cm. There is no

obvious grossly normal ovarian tissue present. The fallopian tube measures ~7.0 cm
in length. It is

difficult to assess the diameter given that there appears to be tumor involvement of
the fallopian tube. In

the most normal area of the fallopian tube, the diameter is ~0.7 cm. A frozen section
is taken of the

ovarian mass, with the remnant submitted in cassette A1.

Cassettes A2—A7: Representative sections of tumor.

Cassette A8: Possible fallopian tube with involvement of tumor.

Cassettes A9—A10: Fallopian tube with possible involvement of tumor.

Part B, received fresh and additionally labeled "2 — uterus, cervix + left adnexa,"
consists of uterus, cervix,

and attached left ovary with tube, that weigh in total 125.5 gm. The uterus and
cervix together measure

8.0 cm from superior to inferior, 5.5 cm from medial to lateral, 3.0 cm from anterior
to posterior. The left

ovary measures 2.6 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm, while the fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in
length and 0.7 cm in

diameter. The cervix itself measures 3.2 cm. The uterus is opened along its lateral
border. There is no

gross tumor identified. The endometrium is 0.3 cm thick and the myometrium is 4.0
cm thick. Within the

myometrium of the anterior cervix, there are two leiomyomas. The ovary and
fallopian tube are grossly " " """"

 

 

normal without any apparent lesions. The right parametrial tissue measures 4.4 x
1.2 x 1.4 cm, and the

left parametrial tissue measures 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm. There are no gross lesions or
masses within this

tissue. The anterior uterus is inked in blue, while the posterior is inked in black.
Representative sections

are submitted as follows:

Cassette Bl: Anterior cervix.

Cassette B2: Posterior cervix.

Cassette B3: Leiomyoma in the anterior uterus.

Page 3 of 5

Cassette B4: Leiomyoma in the anterior uterus.

Cassette BS: Possible leiomyoma within the myornetrlum of the anterior uterus near
the corpus.

Cassettes B6-B7: Posterior endomyometrium.

Cassette 88: Left parametrium, entirely submitted.

Cassettes 89-811: Right parametrium, entirely submitted.

Cassettes B12-Bl3: Fallopian tube, entirely submitted.

Cassettes 314-320: Left ovary, entirely submitted along with soft tissue attachment.
Part C, additionally labeled “3 — right pelvic lymph nodes," consists of multiple soft,
yellow-brown, irregular,

glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragments measuring 6.0 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm in
aggregate. With blunt

dissection, multiple firm areas are recognized, ranging from 0.3 to 2.7 cm in greatest
diameter. Candidate

lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Cassettes C1—C3: Smallest firm areas, submitted intact.

Cassettes C4—C6: Larger firm areas, bisected.

The remaining soft tissue is returned to the container.

Part D, additionally labeled "4 - right common iliac lymph node," consists of three
soft, yellow—brown,

irregular, glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragments measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x
1.0 cm in aggregate.

With blunt dissection, multiple firm areas are recognized, ranging from 1.0 to 1.7 cm
in greatest diameter.

The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes D1—D2.

Part E, additionally labeled "5 — right peri—aortic lymph nodes," consists of one soft,
yellow—brown, irregular,

glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 3.7 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm. With
blunt dissection,

multiple firm areas are recognized, ranging from 0.5 to 1.7 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is

entirely submitted in cassettes E1—E3, with the largest firm area bisected and
submitted in E3.

Part F, additionally labeled "6 - left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of multiple soft,
yellow—brown, irregular,

glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragments measuring 7.0 x 5.0 x 1.0 cm in
aggregate. With blunt

dissection, multiple firm areas are recognized, ranging from 0.5 to 2.7 cm in greatest
diameter. Candidate

 

lymph nodes are Submitted__as_follows-F___.,i,_____, L____._,-,,1__m.,2_1
Cassettes F1-F2: Firm areas, submitted intact.

    

Cassette F3: Two firm areas, bisected.
Cassettes F4-F5: Bisected firm areas.
Part G, additionally labeled "7 - left common iliac lymph nodes," consists of multiple
soft, yellow~brown,

irregular, glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragments measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x
0.5 cm in aggregate.

With blunt dissection, multiple firm areas are recognized, ranging from 0.8 to 1.1 cm
in greatest diameter.

The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes (31-62.

Part H, additionally labeled "8 - left peri-aortic lymph nodes," consists of one soft,
yellow—brown, irregular,

glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. With
blunt dissection, two

firm areas are recognized measuring 0.7 and 1.5 cm in greatest diameter. The
largest area is bisected, and

the specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes l-il—H2, with firm areas in H1 and
remaining tissue in H2.

Part I, additionally labeled "9 — omentum 1," consists of one soft, yellow—brown,
irregular, glistening,

unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 18.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm. The specimen
is serially sectioned,

with representative sections are submitted in cassettes 11-16, with one section
submitted per centimeter.

Part 1, additionally labeled "omentum #2," consists of one soft, yellow-brown,
irregular, glistening,

unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 19.5 x 7.0 x 1.5 cm. The specimen
is serially sectioned,

and representative sections are submitted in cassettes JI-JS, with one section
submitted per centimeter.

Part K, additionally labeled "11 - left gutter biopsy," consists of one soft, yellow—
brown, irregular, glistening,

unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted in

cassette K1.

Part L, additionally labeled "12 — right gutter biopsy," consists of one soft, yellow—

brown, irregular,
Page 4 of 5

glistening, unoriented, fibrofatty tissue fragment measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is entirely

submitted in cassette L1.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by
attending

    

Addendum Diagnosis

 

wﬁddendum Comment __- _

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors, as well as for

 

 

performed on block A2.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is variable (from weak to strong)
nuclear staining in ~40%

of tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is moderate to strong nuclear
staining in ~20% of

tumor cells.

Result of Her-Z/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for Her—2/neu oncoprotein over—
expression.

An immunohistochemical assay was performed using the C811 monoclonal antibody
to Her—2/neu

oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0-3. The
tumor cells show

predominantly cytoplasmic staining, which is nonspecific.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of Her~
2/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered borderline. We and others have observed that
many carcinomas with staining

intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are
therefore submitted for

FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of Her—Zineu
oncoprotein. Tumors in this

category show an excellent correlation between the results of lmmunohistochemical and FISH testing, and
almost always show gene
amplification.

‘ above were developed and their performance characteristics

  

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and

FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical
purposes. They should not be

regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Im rovement Amendments of

' ied to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

  
 
 

Page 5 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

**ADDENDUM.**

Addendum Comment

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors, as well as for

Her-2/neu, was

performed on block A2.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is variable (from weak to strong)

nuclear staining in ~40%

of tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is moderate to strong nuclear

staining in ~20% of

tumor cells.

Result of Her-Z/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for Her-Z/neu oncoprotein over—

expression. _____.._ M
———An-immunoh1sto‘chemrcai assay was performed using the C811 monoclonal antibody

 

 

oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0—3. The
tumor cells show

predominantly cytoplasmic staining, which is nonspecific.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of Her-
2/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered borderline. We and others have observed that
many carcinomas with staining

intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are
therefore submitted for

FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of Her-Zlneu
oncoprotein. Tumors in this

category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and
almost always show gene

amplification.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics

hey have not been cleared or approved by the U. 8. Food and
rug minis ra ion. e
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical
purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of

 

