UUID: AF4A1513- 6562- 4331- -A970- E ”0-
TCGA -WB ABOP PB— EBBSBBRACeOSBa

lllllllllllll
iimlllll'u'll’"ll'"lllll'llll'lllll'l’l'lll'l""”"l' was

cumca lllll lllllllllllllllllllll l ll l ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll

' ' date“ , b; . gW
Chromatin cells? Extra-adrenal tumour. S ' ’ ' ' " L} 9’0

Material: 1: lymph node next to pheochromocytoma. ll: pheochromocytoma.
92x) /o/r 7 I; 5
Frozen section: a lymph node, free

Macroscopy

I: pink / white soft lymph node, maximum size 2.25 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm.

ll received an encapsulated tumor. Size 7 x 5 x 4 cm. On one side adherent muscle and connective
tissue. the hairstyle looks intact. The tumor has a multinodular aspect. The tumor cross laminated. It is
dabbed, frozen for and taken for , Also material for research ' Ferric chloride
Reaction negative. Then, a three representative sections done in A through C (3b).

Microscopy

l: microscopic examination shows sections through a lymph node (frozen section + parafﬁn coupe)
without tumor localization.

ll: Microscopic examination shows in A t / m C bisected by a very cell rich tumor, surrounded by a
ﬁbrous capsule. The tumor shows an alveolar pattern construction and the cells show an epithelial
character. Between cell nests ﬁne, fibrous septa, which many small vessels. The tumor cells have
large, eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm and a round, hypo to hyper chromatic nucleus with a coarse
granular, irregular distributed chromatin pattern. The cores possess distinct nucleoli. Many
polynucleair cells. Mitoses are found scattered. Brown to black pigment dispersed in the granular cells.
Focal necrosis and hemorrhage in the tumor. The tumor shows an expansive growth, focal capsular
invasion. in many places ﬁbrosis and sclerosis of intercellular septa and larger areas with remnants of
old bleeding and siderophages. in the hairstyle many vessels, nerve fibers and lymphoid tissue. in
many places in the tumor thrombosis of vessels.

Assistive technologies:
ELECTRONMICROSCOPY (EM)

Number

Ten fragments intended for EM examination were ﬁxed in glutaraldehyde and embedded in the usual
manner. For orientation were three raised. Light microscoopic examination of the thin
semi-toluidine blue stained shows representative tissue in all the blocks. Block (2) was

further processed for EM research.

in all tumor cells examined numerous secretory granula surrounded by a thin membrane. Furthermore,
the tumor cells contain many mitochondria. The EM research supports the diagnosis
pheochromocytoma.

lmmunopathology
Number

The tumor cells show positivity for resp. 8100 and NSE, weak diffuse positivity for chromo-graninen
and positive vimentin in the septa.

Conclusion:

FINAL CONCLUSlON: Extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma with necrotic hearths and focal capsular
invasion. No vascular invasion. No adrenal remains found.

EM research: Em research support the diagnosis pheochromocytoma.

Pathologist:

mum __7/JJ(/} I (es No >

Tumor turn
HIPM Di.crzpan:v
l‘l

 

initials Dim Revipwed;

 

