[ct/0’5

( Pa 6 l of
' ' gSﬁnuhﬂlWN QL{CLM%wwwA3 mpg g
.. ‘ ~ UUID:7C9836C1-15CB-4033-8995-3A061E80741F
TCGA-DS-AGVM-01A-PR Redacted 9076/3

mmmnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmml 5Muc¢rvu,Am5 I’Vh’

HHlIHﬂHﬂHHﬂHﬂ
@ i (I'I'h'i'li'n‘n‘iii‘.h‘i‘ii'ili‘u ("innam m m csa .q

.
quasi: Discnpancy
Primary Tumor She
Discre
HIPM Disc: ncy DIM-Y
Print Malignanty History

Dual/Smclumnoux “a f
Case 1: {ch dc):
R2k£rlniuals 5 I l 0 U1 '53—‘—

: i‘ul

 

Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS:

l. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
—Ovary with a follicular cyst, serosal adhesion, and mild
hyperplasia of rete elements
-Fallopian tube with minimal chronic inflammation and
aggregates of inflammatory cells (mostly histiocytes/
macrophages) in lumen
-Paratubal cystic Walthard rests
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

2. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
—Ovary with serosal adhesions
-Fallopian tube with minimal chronic inflammation, accumula—
tions of inflammatory cells (mostly histiocytes/macrophages)
in lumen, and focal epithelial hyperplasia associated mild

atypia
@ —Several paratubal cystic Walthard rests
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

3. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
—Four reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis, fibrosis,
and/or partial replacement by benign adipose tissue
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4) [see comment]

4. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
—One reactive lymph node with sinus histiocytosis, foci of
fibrosis, and partial replacement by benign adipose tissue
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

5. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
-Two of four lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma
(2/4) [see comment]
~Lymph nodes also show sinus histiocytosis, foci of
fibrosis, and/or partial replacement by benign adipose tissue

(continued on next page)D

‘ “artmr”* of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine
( _ Page: 4
6. LYMPH NODES, LEFT OBTURATOR, EXCISION:
—Five reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis, foci of
fibrosis, and/or partial replacement by benign adipose tissue
-No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/5)

7. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
3% —Four reactive lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis, foci of
E fibrosis, and/or partial replacement by benign adipose tissue
~No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

8. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PERIAORTIC, EXCISION:
—Two lymph nodes with partial replacement by benign adipose

https:

tissue, and/or foci of fibrosis
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)

9. LYMPH NODE, LEFT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
—One reactive lymph node with sinus histiocytosis, foci of
fibrosis, and partial replacement by benign adipose tissue
—No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

10. UTERUS, RADICAL HYSTERECTOMY:

—Primary inva 've cervical carcinoma, poorly differentiated,
with predomi:ﬁntly_§-—amou§_EETl_features, and associated
squamous cell carcinoma in-situ (SCIS) [see comment]

—Grossly evident tumor involved the entire circumference of
the cervix, measured about 3.5 cm in diameter and 3.9 cm
in length

~Invasive carcinoma involves a maximum of about 80% of the
cervical wall thickness

vTumor extends into the lower uterine segment

~Lymphatic and blood vessel invasion by carcinoma is present
in the cervix

-Lymphatic invasion by tumor is also present in the left
parametrium

~No direct extension of carcinoma (other than that in
lymphovascular spaces) into parametrial soft tissues

—One of four parametrial lymph nodes is positive for
metastatic carcinoma; the affected lymph nodes is on the
left side (see comment)

-Vaginal cuff, including surgical margin of vaginal cuff, is
free of carcinoma

—No extension of carcinoma into the uterine corpus

vFibrosing stromal reaction to invasive carcinoma is present

—Surface of tumor is partially ulcerated and necrotic

—Acute and chronic inflammatory reaction to tumor is present,
but not exuberant

—Other findings include:

-Two uterine leiomyomas, largest of which shows areas of
healed infarction with associated hyalinization, foci of
edema, and small foci of cystic degeneration

—Benign inactive (atrophic to weakly proliferative) endo—
metrium with a few cystically dilated glands and foci of
ciliated epithelial metaplasia
~Mullerianosis (endometriosis/endosalpingiosis) outer
uterine/lower segment wall
—Few cervical squamous cells showing atypia suggestive of
human papilloma virus infection
—Changes consistent with prior cervical biopsy

(continued on next page)U

 

httpszz

“apartment of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine
Page:
-Acute and chronic cervicitis, squamous metaplasia,
parakeratosis, and endocervical nabothian cysts
—Vaginal cuff mucosa with mild chronic and minimal acute
inflammation
COMMENT: The invasive carcinoma exhibits predominantly features
of non—keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma. A few of the nests of
tumor cells have lumen—like spaces (? true lumens versus artifacts
related to tumor cell necrosis). No mucicarminophilic mucin is
detected in the neoplastic cells and only very rare tumor cells
contain PAS-positive, diastase—resistant mucin and/or Alcian blue
PAS—positive material. Sections of the parametrial and right and
left pelvic lymph nodes were stained for keratin using AEl/AE3
antibody. The metastatic tumor cells are highlighted in the
affected lymph nodes, including a few "occult" metastatic tumor
cells in subcapsular sinus of the affected left parametrial lymph
node.

HISTORY: Cervical carcinoma
MICROSCOPIC:

Page 2 of

. Page 3 of

See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l: RIGHT ADNEXA

Labeled "right adnexa" and received in formalin is an 11.5 gram
salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is 3.4 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and
has a tan, slightly lobulated serosal surface. Cut surfaces of the
ovary are grossly unremarkable. The fallopian tube has fimbria at
one end, is 4.5 cm long, ranges from 0.6 to 1 cm in diameter, and
has a tan—red smooth serosal surface. Attached to the fallopian
tube are two thin—walled translucent fluid-filled cysts measuring
0.1 to 0.2 cm in diameter. Cross sections of the fallopian tube
reveal a 0.2 to 0.4 cm diameter patent lumen. Representative
sections are submitted.

A. Ovary and fallopian tube - 4

2: LEFT ADNEXA

Labeled "left adnexa" and received in formalin is an 11 gram
salpingOeoophorectomy specimen. The ovary is 2.7 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and
has a tan, slightly lobulated serosal surface. Cut surfaces of the
ovary are grossly unremarkable. The fallopian tube has fimbria at
one end, is 4 cm long and ranges from 0.6 to 0.8 cm in diameter

and has a tan-pink smooth serosal surface, except for several

tiny thin—walled translucent fluid-filled paratubal cysts, ranging
from about 0.1 to 0.2 cm in diameter. Cross section of the
fallopian tube reveals a 0.1 to 0.2 cm diameter patent lumen.
Representative sections are submitted.

B. Ovary and fallopian tube — 4

3: RIGHT PELVIC NODE

Labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and received in formalin is an
aggregate of soft yellow lobulated, focally hemorrhagic fatty tissue
measuring 5 x 4.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals four soft tan lymph

@tinued on next page)D

 

Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine
Page : '1
nodes ranging from 0.7 to 1.2 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely
submitted.
C. Four lymph nodes ~ 4

4: RIGHT PERIAORTIC NODE

Labeled "right periaortic node" and received in formalin is an
aggregate of soft yellow lobulated fatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 3 x
0.7 cm. Sectioning reveals one soft tan lymph node measuring 2.3 cm
in greatest dimension. The lymph node is entirely submitted.

D. One lymph node, sectioned — 4

5: LEFT PELVIC NODE

Labeled "left pelvic node" and received in formalin is an aggregate
of soft yellow lobulated, focally hemorrhagic fatty tissue measuring
6 x 3.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning of the specimen reveals four soft tan

to tan—yellow lymph nodes ranging from 1.2 to 1.8 cm. The lymph
nodes are entirely submitted.

E. Two bisected lymph nodes - 4
F. Two bisected lymph nodes - 4
6: OBTURATOR NODE LEFT

Labeled "obturator node, left" and received in formalin is an
aggregate of soft yellow lobulated fatty tissue measuring 2.4 x 2 x
0.3 cm. Within the fat, there are several semi-soft tan lymph nodes
ranging from about 0.3 to 1.3 cm in maximum dimension. The entire
specimen is submitted.

G. Multiple lymph nodes and fat - multiple

7: LEFT PA NODE
Labeled "left PA node" and received in formalin is a 2 x 1 x 0.3 cm
portion of soft yellow fatty tissue, within which there are several

 

Page 4 of

soft tan lymph nodes ranging from about 0.2 to 0.8 cm in maximum
dimension. The entire specimen is submitted.
H. Fat and several lymph nodes - l

8: RIGHT PA NODE

Labeled "right PA node" and received in formalin is a 1.4 x 1.2 x
0.3 cm fragment of soft yellow fatty tissue, within which there are
two semi-soft tan—yellow lymph nodes measuring about 0.4 and 0.6 cm
in maximum dimension. The entire specimen is submitted.

I. Two lymph nodes and fat — 1

9: LEFT COMMON ILIAC NODE

Labeled “left common iliac node" and received in formalin is a soft
tan—yellow portion of fibromembranous tissue measuring 1.7 x l x 0.5
cm. Sectioning reveals one soft tan-pink, grossly unremarkable lymph
node measuring 1 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is
submitted.

J. One lymph node and fat — 2

10: UTERUS AND CERVIX

Labeled "uterus and cervix", received fresh in the Operating Room and
subsequently fixed in formalin, is a 250 gram total hysterectomy
specimen. The uterus is symmetric, measuring 11 cm from fundus to
ectocervix, 9 cm from cornu to cornu, and up to 5 cm from the
anterior surface to the posterior surface. The uterine serosa is

(continued on next page)D

https:

nanarrmant of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine

Page: 5
tan-red and smooth. The cervix is about 3.5 cm long and has a
maximum diameter of 2.5 to 3 cm in the ectocervical region. Attached
to the ectocervix there is a vaginal cuff which ranges from 1.5 cm on
the right posterior side to 2.7 cm on the left anterior side. The
vaginal mucosa is tan, smooth and grossly free of tumor. The vaginal
cuff margin is inked for orientation purposes. The ectocervix is
entirely replaced by a firm, tan, ulcerated mass. The external
cervical os is 1 cm in diameter and very irregular but patent. The
parametrial margins are inked black and blue. The uterus is incised
on both sides. The endocervical canal is completely occupied by tan
firm tumor with an ulcerated surface. The tumor occupies the entire
circumference of the cervix. It measures 3.9 cm in length from the
ectocervix to lower uterine segment and up to 3.5 cm in maximum
diameter. It is located approximately 0.2 cm from the posterior and
right lateral resection margins and is at least 1 cm from the left
anterior and all vaginal resection margins. The endometrial cavity
is 4.5 cm long and up to 4 cm in width. The endometrial lining is
tan and smooth and measures up to 0.2 cm in thickness and grossly is
not involved by tumor. Within the uterus are two well-circumscribed
leiomyomas that are intramural and measure 2 and 3.5 cm in maximum
dimension. Both leiomyomas have a firm solid tan-white cut surface
with a whorled configuration without grossly evident hemorrhage or
areas of necrosis. The uninvolved muscular uterine wall has a
maximum thickness of 2.3 cm. Representative sections are submitted.

K. Right parametrial tissues - 2
L. Right parametrial tissues — 1
M. Left parametrial tissues — 1
N. Right posterior cervix and adjacent vaginal cuff to margin ~ 1
0. Right posterior cervix and endocervix — 1
P. Left posterior ectocervix and adjacent vaginal cuff to
margin — 1
Q. Left posterior ectocervix and endocervix — l
R. Right anterior ectocervix and vaginal cuff to margin — l
S. Mid anterior ectocervix and adjacent vaginal cuff to margin - 1
T. Left anterior cervix and adjacent vaginal cuff to margin - 1
U. Left anterior cervix and lower uterine segment
V. Left anterior endocervix and lower uterine segment — 1
w. Right anterior cervix — 1

 

https:/.

Right anterior endocervix and lower uterine segment - 1
Right posterior cervix and vaginal cuff to margin ~ 1
Right posterior endocervix and lower uterine segment - l
Anterior lower uterine segment - 1

Anterior uterine corpus - 1

Posterior uterine corpus « 1

Smaller leiomyoma — 1

Larger leiomyoma - 1

Additional representative sections (submitted on

FF. Cervix with deeply invasive tumor - 1
GG. Cervix with deeply invasive tumor - 1
Gross dictated hv M.D.

spec1a1 Studies: Additional H&Es (Mxl, Qxl, le, Yxl);
(continued on next page)U

Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine

ACLaClu (C,E,F,K,M); mucicarmine (Qx2);
PAS—D (Q); Alcian blue—PAS (Q)

See Also:

I,

.D.
Pathologist

M.D., the pathologist of record, have

personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Finalled:

Page:

6

Page 5 of

