 

Diagnosis
A,C,D. Lymph nodes, level 11 and level 7, excisions -
Negative for tumor.

B. Lung, right lower lobe, excision -

Poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma, compatible with poorly
differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (see microscopic description).
Margins negative for malignancy.

Hilar and peri—bronchial lymph nodes negative for malignancy.

Microscopic Description:
The following template summarizes the findings in this case:

Histologic type: Poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma,
compatible with poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma,
comprising the mass lesion in part B. The tumor does not immunostain
f ynaptophysin, compatible with this interpretation.

— have reviewed representative slides and concur.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated
Primary tumor (pT): ple
Margins of resection: Negative

Direct extension of tumor: Not identified. Pleural invasion is not
identified.

Vascular invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO. The lymph nodes, including the hilar
and peribronchial lymph nodes in part B, as well as the separately
submitted lymph nodes in parts A, C, & D, are negative for tumor.
There is focal hyalinization in lymph nodes, which might reflect old
granulomas. No fungal elements are identified in the hyalinized areas
on silver-stained sections examined in part B.

Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Other findings: The lung away from the tumor has scattered chronic
inflammation and interstitial thickening.

Specimen

A. Level 11 node

B. Right lower lobe of lung

C. Addition level 11 lymph node
D Level 7 lymph node

Clinical Information
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung CA

Gross Description

A. Received fresh labeled "level 11 lymph node" are multiple fragmented
soft gray-black-pink tissue fragments, in aggregate 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm.
AS—l.

B. Received fresh in a container labeled "right lower lobe of lung" is
a 300 g, 19.2 x 17 x 5 cm, lobectomy specimen, with a 1 cm long, 2.7 x
1 cm in cross-section,bronchial stump, which is without focal lesion.
The vessels at the margin are also grossly unremarkable. The pleura is
smooth to wrinkled red-gray-purple, with a focus of retraction and
subjacent induration along the lateral posterior aspect. The pleura
overlying the induration is inked blue. The lung is sectioned,
revealing a well—circumscribed 2.8 x 2.5 x 2.4 cm rubbery tan-white
tumor underlying the aforementioned area, which extends very
peripherally, without definite gross pleural involvement. Per the
clinical request, a portion of tumor and a portion of normal parenchyma
are procured. The parenchyma away from this area is spongy and tan-red,
with diffuse black stippling, with other focal lesions. Soft
grey—black peribronchial and hilar lymph nodes up to 1 cm in greatest
dimension are identified. RS—l2, following fixation, according to the
accompanying block summary.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — bronchial margin; 2 — vascular margins; 3 -6 -
tumor, including relation to pleural surface and to uninvolved lung;
7—9 — lung away from tumor; 10,11— peri—bronchial lymph nodes; 12 —
hilar lymph nodes.

C. Received fresh in a container labeled "additional level 11 lymph
node" are several fragmented soft tan-gray-red pieces of tissue, in
aggregate 2.5 x 2.1 x 0.5 cm. AS—l, following fixation.

D. Received fresh in a container labeled "level 7 lymph node" is a 3.8

x 2.9 x 0.6 cm aggregate of fragmented soft tan-gray-gold tissue and
fat. AS-3, following fixation.

