ICE-(y 5
garcmorhoc/ Uroﬂdﬁj 2120/3

Gender: Female BMLl/dep/ posh/”Em (pail Cl 071 4

Race: White 91k) léL/ﬂ 4/I’L

UUID:DE874863-9AE8-4855- -
TCGA-FD-ASBV BED! D39F71E3C167

Pathology Report: it ll H I "I I H i ”ll i Hi i ”ll llllllll iiimmmmuiiﬁiiititi ed

lHIHHHlllIHNIIl
I” ”III“ I III I uuuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilli'i'iiiiiiii» ”ll

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Scar tissue; excision:
- Skin and subcutaneous tissue with ﬁbrosis, no tumor.

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; lymphadenectomy:
- Eleven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/1 1).

C. Leﬁ pelvic lymph nodes; lymphadenectomy:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 8).

D. Urinary bladder, urethra and piece of small bowel; cystectomy:

- Bladder with high grade urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the

muscularis propria and into the perivesical tissue, see pathologic parameters.
- Benign ovarian tissue adjacent to right bladder wall, no tumor.

- Portion of intestinal wall, no tumor.

- All resection margins, free of tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

. Grade of tumor: High grade.

. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soﬁ tissue (microscopic).
. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 2.4 cm, posterior wall.

. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/ 19).

. pTNM: pT3a,NO,MX.

OOOHO‘Ut-PUJNp—t

Effective _ , 1is Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xx

[1, MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old female with high-grade urothelial carcinoma (invasive
to the muscularis propria) undergoing cystectomy of an Indiana pouch.

Specimens Received:

A: Scar tissue

B: Right pelvic lymph nodes

C: Leﬁ; pelvic lymph nodes

D: Bladder urethra and piece of small bowel

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in four containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "scar tissue". Received

fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 14 x 2.5 cm ellipse of tan skin
excised to a depth of 1.4 cm. There is a 5 cm linear scar on the skin surface
and 2 linear defects on the skin surface measuring 0.2-0.6 cm. The deep margin
is inked blue. The specimen is serially sectioned with representative section
submitted as A1.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple yellow-tan,
lobulated, soft adipose tissue fragments, which form an aggregate measuring 7 x
4.2 x 1.8 cm. The specimen is dissected to reveal 14 lymph node candidates
measuring 0.3-4.7 cm in greatest dimension. They are submitted as Bl-BS.

B1: 5 lymph node candidates

82: 4 lymph node candidates

B4: 4 lymph node candidates

BS—BlO: l lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
Bl 1: Fibro adipose tissue

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple yellow—tan, soft,
lobulated adipose tissue fragments, which form an aggregate measuring 8.8 x 5.6
x 2.1 cm. The specimen is dissected to reveal 18 lymph node candidates ranging
from 0.5-4.5 cm in greatest dimension. They are submitted as Cl-Cl l.

C l: 6 lymph node candidates

C2: 4 lymph node candidates

C3: 3 lymph node candidates

C4: 2 lymph node candidates

C5: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected

C6: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected

C7-C1 1: 1 lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder, urethra, piece

of small bowel". Received fresh and place in formalin is a 202.2 g cystectomy
specimen with overall measurements of 12.5 x 10.5 x 4.5 cm. the bladder portion
measures 8 x 6 x 1.3 cm and the bowel mucosa measures 7.5 x 7 x 0.9 cm. There
are 5 fragments of detached adipose tissue ranging in size from 2-8.5 x 1.8 x
0.4-0.7 cm and a portion of ﬁbromembranous tissue measuring 10 x 3.3 x 1.8 cm.
The interior wall of the bladder consists of bowel mucosa. A right ureteral

stump is identiﬁed measuring 2 x 0.3 cm and demonstrates an intact patent
lumen. The left ureter is not grossly identiﬁed. There is a 1.8 x 1 cm bladder

wall defect in the lateral wall, a 3 x 1.5 cm bladder wall defect superiorly,

and a 1.5 x 1 cm bladder wall defect adjacent to the tumor bed. The serosal
surface shows yellow lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact.
The urethral margin and the outer surface of the bladder is inked black. The
specimen is opened anteriorly to reveal a 2 x 1.8 cm white-tan, friable,

ulceration with a hemorrhagic border located in posterior wall. On cut section,
the white-tan, ill-deﬁned, ﬁrm mass measures 2.4 x 1.2 x 0.7 and extends into
the muscularis propria and abuts the deep margin. A gross photograph is taken.
The surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, wrinkled, pink-tan with a uniform
0.1 cm wall thickness.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

D1: Distal urethral margin

D2: Right ureter resection margin

D3-D8: Bladder mass with ulceration (closest to deep margin in D5-D6)
D9: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall

D10: Uninvolved bladder mucosa leﬁ lateral wall, with possible left
ureter margin

D1 1: Uninvolved bladder mucosa right lateral wall

Dl2-D15: Uninvolved anterior bowel mucosa wall

xxx
[] MD

Crkarh.‘ 3 V

Tumor Site
HIPAA

(Ase ii
Reviewer

 

