uum:nssnssas-1Fas-4caa-aars-Acsnrssansaa
TCGA-NB-ABBK-OlA-PR Redacted
l lllllll lllllllllll

Ill I l
Material: llllll lllllll||ll|lllllllll|l|lllllllllllll |lll|lll Illlllll
Adrenal Illll||ll|llllllllll|llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll
Clinical data

Adrenal Tumor right, suspected pheochromocytoma, double tumor. Laparoscopic
adrenalectcmy right.

Question: nature? Adenoma? Malignancy? Cutting edges free?

Description material: n‘ght adrenal

Macroscopy

Fresh: adrenal, weight 178 grams and dimensions of 9 x 8.5 x 5.0 cm.
Fully encapsulated. There is also some adherent fatty tissues. Fragment is inked.
Fragment is frozen. Aftenrvards also formalin. Rest macro follows.

in formalin adrenal of 7.0 x 8.0 x 5.0 cm. The preparation is inked and afterwards laminated. On the
lamels. there is a tumor seen consisting of 2 focus, the greater is with a maximum diameter of 6.2 cm,
and the smaller one with a maximum cross-section of 3.1 cm. Both tumors appear to be surrounded by
a fine membrane.

Aspect of the larger tumor is bright red, lobulated, with fresh bleeding and focal necrosis with cavity.
Septa are present. Aspect of the small tumor is bright red - yellow. here no necrosis. There is focal
focally is seen intact adrenal cortex. The larger tumor resembles to be also surrounded by focally pre
existent adrenal cortex. From laminas macro picture are made.

Cassettes: 1 t/m 9 tumor surgical margins

Cassette 10: adrenal tissue.

Vulpian positive reaction. Weight of the composition 116 grams.

Partially 10b.

Microscopy:

intersections are made through tumor process in the adrenal gland. Both described macroscopic
tumors show a somewhat similar picture. it concerns polymorphic cells in nests and strands located,
these nests are often separated by vascular structures. Some parties show some more polymorphism
of ceils. others are relatively monotonous. Eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions are just sporadically to
recognize. Alternatively, changing eosinophilia of the cytoplasm. No significant necrosis, no
remarkable mitotic activity. Sometimes it seems to be tumorvessels also invading the vessels. Central
areas of degeneration, however, no obvious

tumor necrosis. lmmunohistochemistry refers to weak expression for chromogranin and also partly S~
100. lnhibin in the remaining parenchyma of the adrenai cortex strongly positive. Faint staining
occasionaliy also in the tumor itself. Still, all in all the picture compatible with

a pheochromocytoma. The out surfaces seem pretty.

Additional research

at request of colleagues whether here in the tumor also ectopic ACTH production
is demonstrably related to Cushing. Again immunohistochemistry performed. Hereby on two different
levels (both nodules) is the ACTH staining negative. Staining control material pituitary is positive.

Conclusion

Adrenal extirpation right: pheochromocytoma situated in two nodules (6.2 cm and 3.1 cm)
Cutting edges seems free.

Addendum: no obvious ACTH production (lHC-method).

9%) IO/r 2/1 5

 

 

