UUID: FSBBGSFD- 9F81- 4531- BOM- 489E529RBgBﬁac

lllllllliilliiiiilillili'll l'il'illili'll

 

II” | I
TSS Patient ID: HHIII II {II

Surgical Date:

Gross Description: in bladder, it is invasive and protruded masse, ill — margins with 5x4x4cm in size,
soft and gray surface.

Microscopic Description: Tumor cells are hyperplastic to form nest or groups or cords or tubules. Tumor
cells have moderate and eosinophilic or clear cytoplasm. Nuclei are very enlarged and varriability in

shape and size, irregular nuclear membranes, nucleoli and abnormal chromatin patterns. Mitoses are
present. Tumor invades in muscle propria or nerves.

Diagnosis Details: infiltrating urothelial carcinoma, high-grade, infiltrating muscularis propria
Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: BLADDER TISSUE CHECKLIST

Specimen type: Cystectomy

Tumor site: Bladder (PW—:35, 3H2 rs LMJw and!)

Tumor size: 5 x 4 x 4 cm

Tumor features: None specified C 136.130 “'3 .
“MM N03
Histologic type: Transitional cell carcinoma . 1 8/205

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated ' a \ WM. LIQS

a; 20/5
Tumor extent: Muscularis prOpria D. E W LUCILQQ N03
U107,
Lymph nodes: Not specified ‘7

Lymphatic invasion: Not specified
Venous invasion: Not specified

Margins: Not specified

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: No

Additional pathologic findings: Extracapsular extension: present, focal

Comments: None

mm 5m. MW by 1’55 4v Lg
le%.w the; dchcupwwu/

6014!!- .

    

w/o

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
docum en ted on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site [TSS):.

TSS Identiﬁer: __..

_TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: _

 

 

 

 

Completed By (intervieWer Name 0. Completed Date: -
lﬁagnosis information 1
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtypeEs) documented on
Patholo to Die nosis ‘ 1,. 9 l the initial pathology report for this case. if the histology for
1 Provideg on [Dita] val this case ls mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report WM WW
Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
Histologic features of g \
liCtiF ltdf thl .
2 the sample provided WW hWVm VOL, Qua or on to arm comp e e or scase
for T CGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

[Discrepancy between Patholo

gy Report and Case Quality Control Form

.J

 

Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial

 

 

 

Biorepository Director

id th f - _ I E-

3 51:: ‘(Iiisgre 63:16:50" or 5 Eu" LVE‘ C.- ‘1 ‘6 V ‘ pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
between the mythology diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCGA ' k UWLD 1' Wl‘H/UIM “HAL WM
Case Quality Control .. ..

Form. WOS: “0+ \Vd/V1 \ V1 'Pm
VPWOFX‘. 190+ was. give/v1
0‘” 053 C”? with ~HM, +uvvwr
had/i VB beached 0 v1 MM.
Wool/i, of W W
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name or the pathologist who reviewed this case
4- Pathologist or for TCGA.

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that ”13 above information "mound L-- ,ny institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

~«_...._

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled The Attending Pathoiogist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware ofthe above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

 

Principal investigator Signature

Date

