 
  

CGA -AY ~407ﬂ

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT

 

Surgical Pathology Report

* Amended *

A: Implant, uterine, biopsy
— Nodule of benign smooth muscle consistent with leiomyoma,
no tumor seen.

 

B: Colon, right, hemicoleotomy
Tumor Histologic Type: adenooarcinoma
Histologic Grade: poorly differentiated

Depth of Invasion: through muscularis propria into
pericolic adipose tissue.

Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion: present
Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion: present
Perineural space invasion: present
Margins:

Proximal margin: free of tumor
Distal margin: free of tumor

 

Circumferential (radial) margin: involved with tumor (block
811)

Regional lymph nodes:
Total number with metastasis: 5
Total number examined: 15

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: at least pT3, cannot exclude pTé
pN2 pr

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on
information available at the

time of this report, and is subject to Change pending
clinical review and

additional information.

Additional pathologic findings: The appendix shows fibrous
obliteration.
The attached portion of small bowel shows no pathologic

abnormality.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section was requested by-.

FSAl: "Uterine implant", biopsy
— Benign fibromuscular tissue, no carcinoma seen.

Clinical History:
a clinical diagnosis of colon cancer, now undergoes right
hemicolectomy.

Gross Description:

Received are two appropriately labeled containers.
Container A is additionally labeled "uterine implant." It
contains a 0.4 x 0.3 x

0.3 cm white and red soft tissue fragment; block FSAl, NTR.

Container B is additionally labeled "right colon."

Specimen fixation: formalin

 

Parts of bowel received: terminal ileum, cecum, proximal
ascending colon,
appendix

Specimen length: terminal ileum, ll cm; cecum/colon, 36 cm;
appendix, 7 cm

Orientation: By anatomic landmarks. lnking: radial
margin/blue.

Tumor location: cecum

Gross appearance of tumor: The tumor on the mucosal surface
is present as an indurated depression with a rolled border.
Cross sectioning reveals additional rubbery firm white
solid tissue with focal yellow necrosis. This is present in
the pericecal adipose tissue/subserosa. The tumor mass here
has an infiltrative border with a stellate pattern of
extension, including to the radial margin.

Tumor dimensions: 6.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm
Circumferential growth: 40%

Gross depth of invasion: Tumor invades through the
muscularis propria into the
subserosa/pericecal adipose tissue.

Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum:
Tumor is at least
very close to the peritoneum.

Luminal obstruction: not appreciable
Bowel circumference at tumor site: 7 cm

Gross distance of tumor from margins: 11 cm to terminal
ileum margin, 32 cm to

colon margin, radial margin is at least within 1

mm, may be positive

Lymph nodes: per block summary

Other remarkable findings: Within the subserosa directly
below the primary tumor

mass, there are multiple foci of yellow/white

tumor nodules distending circumferential fibrous tissue.

 

These may

represent lymph nodes completely replaced by tumor,
vascular invasion, and/or exuberant desmoplastic response
to subserosal

tumor deposits.

Tissue submitted for special investigation: Tumor and
normal tissue to Tissue procurement.

Digital photograph taken:

Block Summary:
Inking: radial margin is blue

Bl,B2 — terminal ileum margin of resection, en face

B3—BS — colonic margin of resection, en face

BG-BB — full thickness cross section of tumor, from mucosa
to positive

radial margin

BQ—Bll — full thickness cross section of tumor, from mucosa
to positive

radial margin

B12 — additional view of subserosal invasion

Bl3—B15 ~ additional views of grossly positive radial
margin

Bl6,B17 — subserosal tumor deposits with circumferential
fibrous tissue

B18,Bl9 — tumor, transition to normal muoosa

820 — normal colon, distal from tumor

B21 _ normal terminal ileum, distal from tumor

B22 — appendix, cross section of tip and en face sections
of base and middle

B23 — two lymph node candidates, one bisected and inked
blue

B24 — tumor replaced lymph node versus vascular invasion
B25 w two lymph node candidates, larger bisected and inked
blue

826 w two lymph node candidates

827 — three lymph node candidates

B28 — two lymph node candidates

B29 — three very small lymph node candidates

830 — two lymph node candidates

B31—B40 w perivascular adipose tissue

 

Crossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by -

 

