0/156," 1w -0 — 3

MW” Mé‘g/s

6 fWOIB

#0 S
POI-L (171.0
Surgical Pathology Report @W M%
Patient Name: Phone #: Accession #: / /
Med. Rec. #2 Client: Taken: (2%) 4 I? )‘3
DOB: Location: Received:
Gender: M Accnt: Reported:
Physicianls): '
pm Location: uum.cus15D5F-aac5-4571 s43R1-ses1cMMa4éid
Clinical History "G" ”U' "AST" 91" 4’
Right parietal tumor lllll IIllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Operative Diagnoses mm ”HI” "III”IIIH

anemia“ I swim... III ”II”! rm IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

A: Brain tumor, biopsy
B: Brain tumor, excision biopsy
Pathologic Diagnosis
A. and B. Brain, right parietal tumor. biopsy and excision: Anaplastic astrocytoma. WHO grade III
(see
comment).
Comment
Permanent sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis. Sections show a moderately pleomorphic
infiltrating glioma
with mostly angular and irregular hyperchromatic nuclei. Some rounder nuclei are also present perhaps
suggesting a
minor oligodendroglial component. Mitotic activity is increased In areas of high cellular density (slide A2).
The Ki-67 labeling index is approximately 10% overall but focally approaches approximately 45%. An
experimental
antibody for the R132H IDH1 mutation Is positive. Controls show appropriate reactivity.
Results of additional studies will be reported below in procedure addenda.
“Electronically Signed Out'“
Senior Staff Pathologist
ProcedureslAddenda
PCR for EGFR variant Ill mutation
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
NEGATIVE - No evidence of EGFRvIII mutation is detected

Surgical Pathology

Results-Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from paraffin tissue block

H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular target in glioblastoma because it
is amplified,

overexpressed. and/or mutated in up to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant
III

(EGFRvIII) is an cncogenic. constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that is commonly expressed in
glioblastoma.

Cell culture and in vivo models of glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRvIII as defining prognostically
distinct

subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRvIII has been shown to sensitize tumors
to EGFR

tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from
formalin ﬁxed,
parafﬁn embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA is then ampliﬁed using
standard PCR
technique for DNA templates. PCR products are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of
this assay ‘
has been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.
FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic test.
This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
as required
by CLIA ’88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures
and/or diagnostic criteria.
***Electronically Signed Out”

Senior Staff Pathologist
Loss of Heterozygosity 1p, 19q Assay (LOH)
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
POSITIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 19q is detected.
NEGATIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p is NOT detected.
Informative loci are: D181592, D181612, 018496, D198219, D19S412
Results-Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor parafﬁn block DNA extracted from a
corresponding blood specimen was used as a normal reference control.
H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.
TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA (baseline)/ Tumor DNA
pairs using 3
markers at both 1p and 19q. The 3 markers on 1p are D18548, D181592, and 018552 (with 018468,
D1 8161 2, and
D18496 as backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19q are D198219, 0198412, and PLAZG4C (with
D198606 and
01981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites (2 or 4 nt repeats) except PLAZG4C which is a
minisatellite (26
nt repeat) polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score, am plicon size, and
ease of
interpretation. The backup markers are used if the ﬁrst line markers at that chromosome arm are
uninformative or
otherwise ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each chromosomal arm
represents the
typical ﬁnding in oligodendrogliomas with 1p and 19q deletion.
FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand-alone diagnostic
test. This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
as required

Surgical Pathology

by CLIA ’ 88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures -

andlor diagnostic criteria. '_

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non-neoplastic cells in the sample may preclude the
detection of
allelic loss.
***Electronically Signed Out”
Senior Staff Pathologist
MGMT Promoter Methylation
Date Ordered: Date Reported:
Interpretation
NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.
Results-Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor parafﬁn block
H and E slide was examined and no microdissection was needed.
TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter have been shown to
benefit
from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulﬁte
treatment of
DNA followed by real-time PCR ampliﬁcation of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences. The
analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial dilution of methylated positive control DNA into
unmethylated DNA, and was assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated
DNA. Factors
such as the presence of >50% non-neoplastic cells in the sample, or extensive tissue necrosis, may
preclude the
detection of methylated MGMT promoter sequences.
FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a stand alone diagnostic
test. This test
was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
as required
by CLIA ’88 regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for speciﬁc uses by the US. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that Such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in the context of established
procedures ‘
and/or diagnostic criteria.
”Electronically Signed Out***
Senior Staff Pathologist
latte-Operative Consultation
A. Brain tumor, biopsy: High-grade glioma. Frozen section and smears performed at
and results
reported to the Physician of Record.

Senior Staff Pathologist

Gross Description

A. Brain tumor, biopsy:

CONTAINER LABEL: F8 brain tumor.

FIXATIVE: Formalin. NO. PIECES: no info given from frozen. SIZENOL: # mm. CASSETTES: 1, 2-
cassettes

transferred as received, NS,

Surgical Pathology

 

