 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN{S) RECEIVED

1. Lympthode: STlOL TB Angle

2. Lymph node: Subcarinal st?

3. LUNGS: Left lung. Bronchial resection margin .
4. Lymph node: Inferior pulmonary ligament st9

DIAGNOSIS
1., 2. STlOL TB angle, Subcarinal 8T7, lymph node dissection:
~ Negative for malignaHCy. lymph node. (x2)

3. Left lung pneumonectomy:

- Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, central, arising and
obstructing lower lobe bronchus with extension to involve the main
bronchus bifurcation. _

~ Tumor 5.7 cm in greatest diameter, 2.3 cm from bronchial resection
margin. (pTZ)

u -Bronchial resection margin negative for tumor

— Tumor has invaded the pulmonary artery, vascular resection margin
negative for tumor.

- ,Interlobar node extensively infiltrated by tumor.

~ Eight lower lobe lobar and 2 upper lobe lobar nodes negative for
tumor. (pno) '

- Blood and lymphatic vessels invasion noted.

— Lower lobe bronchial mucous impaction with obstructive pneumonia.
- Centroacinar emphysema, marked.

4. Inferior pulmonary ligament 3T9 lymph node:
~ Negative for malignancy, adipose tissue only.

SYNOPTIC DATA

:cimen Type: Pneumonectomy
naterality: Left

 

Status: complete Page: 1 of 4

 

 

Tumor Site:‘ Other: (LLL bronchus extending to
lobar bifurcation)

Tumor Size; Greatest dimension: 5.7 cm
Additional dimensions: 5.0 x 4.0 cm

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pTz: Tumor with any of the following

features of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension;
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the
visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis
that extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung

' le: Metastasis in ipsilateral
' peribronchial and/or ipsilateral hilar lymph nodes, including

intrapulmonary nodes involved by direct extension of the primary tumor
Lymph node stations

involved: 11L (Left interlobar)

pMX: Cannot be assessed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from

closest margin: 2.3 mm
Margin: (Main bronchus)

Direct Extension of Tumor: - Other (specify): pulmonary artery
Blood vessel Invasion: Present
Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Present
Additional Pathologic Findings: Severe centrilobular emphysema

‘ other: Obstructive pneumonia, lower
lobe
COMMENT

This is a centrally located tumor that extends from the lower lobe
bronchus to the main bronchus bifurcation point. The interlobar node is
extensively infiltrated by the tumor. At the hilum, the tumor has also
invaded through the bronchial wall into adjacent fibroadipose tissue,
with infiltration around a large nerve trunk noted. The lower lobe shows
prominent mucous impaction and obstructive pneumonia.

Status: complete

Page: 2 of 4

 

 

 

 

CA.LUNG

GROSS DESCRIPTION
1. The specimen container is labeled with the patient' 5 identification
and as ﬂLymph Node: ST10L TB angle". It contains one piece of red~tan
tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
for frozen section. -

\— frozen section resubmitted.

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patient' s identification
and as "Lymph Node: Subcarinal 8T7”. It contains one piece of gray—brown
tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.4 x 1.0 cm. Specimen submitted in toto in
labeled "2A".

3. The specimen container is labeled with the patient‘s name and as
“Lungs: Left lung. Bronchial resection margin qs" consists of a
pneumonectomy specimen consisting of two lobes of lung tissue received
fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on part of the specimen. The specimen measures 21.5 x 17.0 x
5.5 cm. The pleural surface is smooth and gray-tan in color with a small
ill-defined area of puckering measuring about 3.5 cm. On sectioning,
there is a tumor mass involving the left lower lobe lobar bronchus
invading the lower lobe lung parenchyma and extends to the junction of
bifurcation of the main bronchus. There is also a lower lobe lobar
bronchus node that is grossly involved with an upper lobe bronchus
interlobar node that is grossly involved by the tumor. The tumor mass
appears to impinged on the vessel wall. This tumor mass measures 5.7 x
5.0 x 4.0 cm. This tumor is 2.3 cm from the main bronchus resection
margin. Multiple hilar nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.5 x
0.3 x 0.2 cm to 4.5 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. The remainder of the lung tissue is
free from tumor but appears to be predominantly emphysematous with
diffuse areas having mucous plugs and an area of consolidation with
yellowish specks and firm on the medial basal segment. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:
3A~ bronchial resection margin frozen section resubmitted.

- vascular resection margin
oc- multiple nodes around lower lobe lobar bronchus

Status: cemplete Page: 3 of

4

 

 

 

3D-one lower lobe lobar node bisected
3E-biggest lower lobe lobar node
3F-main bronchus with tumor
3G—upper lobe bronchus with interlobar node
3H—tumor on mainstem bronchus with lower lobe bronchus
3I—3J«tumor at junction of lower lobe and upper lobe bronchus
3K-largest interlobar node with vessel wall
3Lutumor impinging on the vessel wall
3Métumor with lower lobe bronchus
3N-tumor with lower lobe lung parenchyma
30—area of consolidation from medial basal segment
j~1eft lower lobe lung parenchyma
g—left upper lobe lung parenchyma
3R-mu1tip1e upper lobe lobar nodes
3S—3T—tumor on lower lobe in relation to pleura
3U—normal lung tissue from left lower lobe .
3V—norma1 lung tissue from left upper lobe

Four_pieces of bronchial tumor, two pieces of tumor from hilar node, two
pieces of bronchial mucosa and three pieces of lung tissue were taken for
tissue banking.-

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patient' s identification
and as "Lymph Node: Inferior pulmonary ligament 8T9". It contains one

piece of yellow—brown tissue measuring 1.8 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm. Specimen
submitted in toto in labeled "4A“. -

QUICK SECTION '
1A ~Negative for carcinoma.
3A - Negative for carcinoma.

Status:‘complete

 

Page: 4 of 4

 

