 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

! Surgical Patholog}r {CopatlU I Final

Path Report Final

SURGICAL PATH ORT
ACCESSEON NOW
Final Diagnosis(es):
(A) Lymph node, hepatoduodenal, biopsy: One iymph node,
negative for malignancy (0ft).
(B) Lymph node, posterior portai, biopsy: One lymph node,
negative for maiignancy (ON).
(C) Bile duct margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(D) Pancreatic gland margin, excision:
1) Smail fragment of pancreatic tissue with chronic
pancreatitis
2) One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).
(E) Pancreatic duct margin, biopsy: Negative for matignancy.
(F) Head of pancreas. stomach, duodenum,
pancreaticoduodenectorny (Whipple procedure):
1) Ductai adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
2) Tumor size: 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.
3) All margins are negative for involvement by carcinoma.
) Fourteen lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/14).
5) The tumor involves the ampulia of Vater (duodenum).
) Pathologic staging: pT3NO.
7) See Synoptic Report elow for complete tumor summary.
8) Stomach with no histopathoiogic abnormality.
Synoptic Report:
Specimen:
Head of pancreas.
Duodenum.
Stomach.
Common bite duct.
Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partiai
pancreatectomy.
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.
Tumor Size:
Greatest Dimension: 3.0 cm.
Additional Dimensions: 2.5 x 1.5 cm.
Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma.
Histologic Grade: G2: Moderateiy differentiated.
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades ampuitacf Vater.
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Treatment Effect: Not known.
Lymphvascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Pathoiogic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT3: tumor extends beyond the pancreas but
without invoivement of the celiac
axis or the superior mesenteric artery.
Regionat Lymph Nodes: pNO: No regional lymph node

 

 

 

- Printed from: Default
Page: I of 5

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results
- Surgical Pathology (Cop atll) - Final

metastasis.

Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 17

Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 0

Distant Metastasis: Not applicable.

Additional Pathologic Findings: Pancreatic intraepitheiiai
neoplasia (highest grade: PanlN 3).

Chronic pancreatitis.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments:
This case has been reviewed and the diagnosis approved by
consulting departmental surgical pathology staff.

‘ The gross description and all microscopic slides have been
reviewed and inter reted b the undersi ned athologist‘

 

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Hepatoduodenum

B: Posterior portal lymph node

C: Bile duct margin

D: Pancreatic gland

E: Pancreatic duct

F: Small bowel, head of pancreas, stomach, duodenum
Clinical History: ‘
Pancreatic cancer. I

lntraoperative Consuitation:

Time Received:

Time Reported:

FSC'i: Bite duct margin: Negative-concurs (1 block).

FSD1: Pancreas gland margin: Negative,—

block).
FSEi: Pancreatic duct margin: Negative, _‘i

    

Gross Description: ‘
(A) (hepatoduodenum) Received in formalin is a portion of
rubbery tan—brown soft tissue, consistent with lymph node, with
attached yellow tan fibrofaity tissue measuring it) x 1.0 x 0.5
cm in greatest dimensions. The specimen is entirely submitted
in toto in mesh Cassette A1.

(B) (posterior portal lymph node) Received in formalin is a
portion of rubbery red- tan soft tissue, consistent with lymph
node, measuring 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm in greatest dimensions. The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassette Bi.

(C) (bile duct margin, suture true margin) Received fresh from

- __ . , Printed from: Default ,
Page: 2 of 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

_———

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ Surgical Pathology (Copath) -

the OR for frozen section to evaluate for malignancy is shaved
portion of bile duct which measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm in
greatest dimensions. The entire specimen is frozen and then
submitted for permanent section in cassette FSCt.

(D) (pancreatic gland) Received fresh from the OR for frozen
section to evaluate for malignancy is a portion of red—yellow
soft tissue which measures 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm in greatest
dimensions. The suture is placed on the true margin. The true
margin is submitted for frozen section and then submitted for
permanent section 3 in cassette FSDi. The remaining tissue is
submitted in cassette DZ.

(E) (pancreatic duct, stitch marks true margin) Received fresh
from the OR for frozen section to evaluate for malignancy is a
circular portion of red-white which measures 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm
in greatest dimensions. The specimen is entirely submitted for
frozen section and then submitted for permanent section in
cassette FSEi.

(F) (gallbladder, small bowel, head of pancreas, stomach,
duodenum) Received in formalin is a portion of small bowel,
head of the pancreas, and stomach.‘ The entire specimen measures
25.0 cm in length, 14.0 cm in width and 3.0 cm in the
anteroposterior dimension, The stomach measures 10.0 cm in
length and 12.0 cm in open circumference. The small bowel
measures 20.0 cm in length and 7.0 cm in open circumference.
The head of the pancreas measures 3.0 cm x 3.0 cm x 1.5 cm in
greatest dimensions. The specimen is inked as follows:
Anterior surface - yellow, pancreatic duct margin — red,
poaterior surface —black, bile duct margin — blue. vascular
margin — indigo, bile duct after opening the specimen - orange,
and uncal margin - green. . The specimen is opened through
ampulla and reveals an ill-defined, white, tirm mass measures
3.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimensions. The mass completely
involves the head of pancreas, encases the bile ductand is
grossly present at the uncal and posterior retroperitoneai
margins. Dissection of the adjacent fat reveals a total of 18
lymph nodes, ranging in size from 0.2 to 0.8 cm in greatest
diameter. The gallbladder mentioned on the requisition and on
the container is not present. Blocks are submitted as follows:
F1 — gastric margin '

F2 - smalt bowel margin

F3—F4 ~ uncal margin perpendiculariy sectioned and submitted
into cassettes

F5 - bile ductlmargin en face

F6 — posterior retroperltoneal margin

F7 — pancreatic duct margin

F8 - anterior retroperitoneal margin

F9-F10 - section of the duodenal bulb. ampulla, bile duct and
tumor

F1 1-F12 — the vascular margin perpendicularly sectioned

 

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

Page: 3 of5

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

— Surgical Pathology (Cop ath) - Final

F13—F’l5 — representative section of tumor

F16 - repreSentative section of the normal looking stomach and
duodenum '

F17 — section from the duodenum near the ampulla with indented
mucosal surface

Fiﬁ—E20 - six lymph nodes each

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and

evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of [H antibodies that are regulated as

analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed

and their performance characteristics determined by the

Histo atholo Laborato in the Department of Pathology at the
a They have not been cleared by the US

Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such

clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These

tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical

care. In cases where immunohistochemistry testing is performed,

the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used

to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(31G7), ER(SP1).

PR(1E2), Her2neut485), CD117(Poly), CD20(L26).

Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by ll-IC, Her2 by ll-lC andlor HER2 by FlSl—l have been fixed as

per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48

hours.

ER, PR, Ki-Bi’, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative

percentage of positively stained nuclei, Her-Zlneu and EGFR are

scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,

incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is

scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any

proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+). and strong complete staining in more

that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue ﬁxed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in

parafﬁn unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 4 of5

 

 

 

 

 

