 

 

 

 

SURGXCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL

«mmmwwmm m.

 

w mm‘quuwemwvmé

«WM»

   

 

 
   

WM.»

DlAGNgﬁlS;
LUNG. mam“ UPPER LOSE, ExcsSION - EPiDERMOID CARCENOMA

SOFT WSSUE‘ "TUMOR.” EXCISiON — EpiDERMOiD CARCWOMA

LUNG, RSGHY MiDDLE LOSE, WEDGE EXCSSION ~ NO EVEGENCE OF MALEGNANCY

LUNG; "NORMAL," EXCISION ‘ NO EVEDENCE OF MALIGNANCY

LYMFH MODE, PERIBRONCHIAL, EXOSEON - N0 HISTOPATHOLOGIC ABNORMAUTY‘CZIQ}
LYMPH MODE, LEVEL 4R, EXCISKDNAL BIOPSY ’ NO HISVOPAWOLOGIC ABNORMAUTY (535)
LYMPH MODE, LEVEL 7, EXCISSONAL BIOPSY « NO HISTOPATHOLOGIC ABNORMALITY (3B)
LYMPH MODE, LEVEL 9, EXCiSIONAL BiOPSY - NO HiSTOPATHOLOGIC ABNORMAUTY (2/2)
LYMPH NUDE, LEVEL 10R, EXCISIONAL 850PSY « NO HISTUPATHOLOGm ABNORMAUTY (1/1)

 

lntraogerative Consuitaﬁon:

An intraoperaﬁve micmscopic consultation was obtained and immpretad as: ”Brought to the frozen seam area is a
spaciman labeled ‘right uppar bbe,’ consisting of a iobe of lung measuring 18 x 12 x 3 cm and weighing 17:: grams.
The: mama! surface is smodh without puckering. The stapfe line aver the area adjacent «2 {ha right middle tube is
removed and the undeﬂying parenchyma inked blue, The iung ES sectioned to show a tanuyenmv. focaﬂy necrotic tumor,
measuring 61 x 3.8 x 3.7 cm. appmximatety 1 mm from the inked margin. A sectéon of tumor in reiatian m the nearest
margin is frozen as F81. The tumor (25 grams) and normai tissue taken for-stud A Tumor and normal tissue
3130 taken _ studies. Rest for permament sections,” 1')—

931931054

 

 

 

. _ _ , ,5 suneicm. PATHOLOGY REPORT
”Also brought to the frozen section area is a specimen labeled 'bronchlal sleeve; consisting of a segment of bronchus
measuring 1.5 cm in length: 1.6 cm in diameter and marked with a long and short sutureo The marked margins are

shaved and frozen as F82A short suture roxima ‘ F828 (long suture, distal margin). Rest for permanent
sections. " Wﬂ

F81: Right middle lobe, tumor in relation to margin

- "Nonvsmall cell carcinoma, approxlmateiy1 mm from the inked margin,“ :3—

FSZA: Proximal bronchial margin
F825: Distal bronchial margin
”NO mm of mallow“ by—

Mlcroscogic Descrigtion and Comment:

Sections of the rlgnt upper lobe show poorly differentiated nmkeratinlzing, epidennotti carcinoma with large vessel
invasion. Tho material from tho right middle lobe and "normal" lung snow mild am n ma with no evidence of tumor.
The bronchial margin and all samoled lymph nodos are free of “mold“9

of unstaled race. with a right lung mass. Operative procedure; Thoracotomy and right

  
 

History:
The patient is V
upper whammy.

Sgecimentg} Rgggived:
grumpy: N005, 10R

8: LYMPH NOIJE. LEVEL 9

c: LYMPH MODE. LEVEL 7

D: LUNG, mom impala LOSE
E: snoncnw. SLEEVE

r; LYMPH NODE, LEVEL ra
G: LYMPH N005, LEVEL 98
n: TUMOR

l: LUNG. RIGHT MiDDLE LOSE WEDGE
J: NORMAL LUNG

K: LYMPH MODE. 4R #1

L: LYMPH moor; 4R #2

M: LYMPH nonew 4R n3

Gross Qescrigtion;

The specimens are: received in 13 lonnalin-tilled oontainers, each labelod with the patients name!
The first wntaéner is labeled "138.” it holds a single dark bromtan putative lymph node that measures 1.2 x {3.7 x
0.5 cm. Bisocted‘ Labeled A; Jar 0.

  

The second container is labeled“ ”level 9.” it holds a piece of yellow-tan ﬁbroadipose tissue attached to black-tan
putative lymph node ﬂows: that measures 9.8 x 0‘7 x 0.3 cm. Labeled B. Jar Cl. ,

The third containor is labeled "level 7.“ it holds two black‘tan putative lymph nodes. The larger measures 25. x 1.1 x
054 cm and the smalls; 0,6 x 8.6 x 0.3 cm. Labeled Ct - largar lymph node, bisected; C2 ~ smallar lymph node Jar O.

The fourth container is labeled "RUL, FS1/X.” lt holds a green ﬁsoue cassette labeled “F81." that contains lwo graywtan
pieces of lung parenchyma that together measure 2.5 x 2.3 x 0.4 cm. A white~tan nodular lesion, measuring

Page2of4

 

 

 

séwixowx».

. SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REl’ORT _
approximately 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. approximates the blue inked resection margin in tho larger lssua

fragment. Labeled Dl (F81). Also lo the cmtalner is a lobeclomy specimen with weigh! and dimensions oonslstenl
wlth the lntraoperatlvo consultation. Thoro are two staple lines measuring 8.8 and 4.5 om respectively. The pleural
surface is wrinkled, pink-tan and shows areas of block-tan moltling. The specimen has been previously sectioned to
expose spongy bromtan lung parenchyma and a lobulatod. non—encapsulated. well circumscribed. ﬁrm. while-tan
lesion abutting the main stem bmnchos of the lobe. The resection margin has been previously inked bluo. There are
numerous defects in the tomol. where tissue was taken for tumor bank. the largest of which measureo 2.5 om in
greatesl dimension. The pleura overlying the tumor, near the mainslem bronchus has been disrupted. making it
difﬁcult to aosess the pleura lo: lnvasion by the tumor. The mom appears to invade the main stem bronchus, and a
plug of tumor lo within the lumen of the airway at the margin of resection. The blood vessel at the resection margin
appears to ho free of tumor. At least one black~tan putative peribronohial lymph node. measuring 1.3 om in greatest
dimension. is identiﬁed. ‘l‘ho tumor is further sectioned to show that it encases peobronohial blood vessels. The
remainder of the lung parenchyma shows no localizing lesions. Labeled 02 .. vascular resection margin and bronchial
resection margin wllll luminal tumor plug; 03 - oonbronohlal lymph node; 04 and 05 - tumor in relation to residual blue
, inked resection margin: 06 ~ tumor oncasing penbmnohlal blood weasel: D7 — tumor in relation to lung paronohyma; 08
- uninvolved lung parenohyma and pleura. Jar 2.

The ﬁfth container is labeled ”long stitch - distal margin, short stitch . proximal mwgln - maximal sleeve. FSZA, ZBIX.“
ll. holds two green sooclmen oassonos and a “Clshapad” piooe of pink-tan, cartilaginous bronchial tissue. The ﬁrst
tissue cassette is labeled "FSZA." and lt holds a yellow-tan ring of oorlllago and bronchial wall that moasunos 2.0 x 1.4
x 0.3 cm. Labeled El (FSEA). 'fhe second tloouo cassette is labeled. “F823” and it holds a Cohaped place of
yollothao bronchial wall that measures 1.7 x 1.1 x 0.2 cm. Labeled E2 (F828). The remaining portion of bronchial wall
in the container measures 2.3 x 1.3 x 1.1 cm. The mucooal lining ls pink—tan and unremarkable. Trlsected. Labeled ES
(X2). Jar 0.

The sixth oontalnec is labeled ”level 78.” ll holds a single black-tan putative lymph nodes that measures 0.9 x 0.6 x
0.4 cm. Blsootoo. Labeled F. Jar 0.

The seventh container i3 labeled, “level 98." it holds two yellow-tan to blodotan places of ﬁbroadloooe tissue that
measure 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggrogato. Labeled G, Jar l}.

The eighth container is additionally labeled “manor." it holds two rubbery while-tan soft tissue fragments that measure
1.1 x 0.5 x (1.5 cm in aggregate. Attached to those fragmonls is a 2.6 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm portion of dark rod-brown clot.
Labeled ll. Jar 0.

The ninth oontalnor is labeled ”right middle lobe wedge.“ it holds a 7.7 gram wedge excision spooimen of lung that
measures 8.2 x 2.5 x 2.1 cm, with Mo staple lines that measure 7.7 and 7.2 cm rospoctlvoly. loo pleural surface is
pink—tan. shiny and smooth with a 3.2 x 1.6 cm aroo of dark rod-brow homorrhago adjacent to one of the staple lines.
No masses or nodules are palpated within ll'le specimen. The staple lines are excised and the undorlylng pamnchyma
inked blue. The specimen is sectioned to show spongy, plnk~tan lung pamnohyma with focal subploural hemoohago.
No localizing lesions are noted. Labeled l.

The tenth container is labeloo “normal lung.” ll holds a 1.8 gram wedge excision of lung that measures 5.4 x 1.7 x 0.8
cm with a 4.5 cm staple line. The pleural suriace is shiny, pink~£on and smooth with no woos of puckerlng noteo.
Soclionod lo show spongy. pink»lanlw19 parenohyma with no localizing lesion. Labeled J. Jar l.

Tho 11th Guillemot is labeled ”4R#l ." it holds two putative black—ion lymph nodos. The larger moasuros 1.7 x 0.9 x 0.8
cm, the smallel' 1.5 x 0.? x 0.6 cm. Labeleo Kl « larger lymph node, trisooteo: A2 - smaller lymph node. bisected. Jar
0.

The 12th container is labeled '4R#2." it holds a lobéulaled piece of gray~tan tissue containing putative lymph nodes that
moaoure 1.5 x12 x 0.7 cm. Blooded. Labeled L. Jar 1.

The 13th oonlalner is labeled '4R#3." ll holds two gray-tan lo black-tan pieces of libmadlpose tissue containing
pulallve lymph nodes that measure 3.8 x 1.2 x 0.6 and 1.5 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm. respectively. The second tissue fragment
contains a putative lymph node measuring 1.3 om in greatest dimension. Labeled Ml - larger tissue fmgmont; M2 -
smaller {issue fragment wlth putative lymph node, bisected. Jar 0.

Pagoaolxl

WWW”

— , _, f SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT -

§ZHOPTIQ

HISTOPATHOLOGIC TYPE
The hﬁstoiogic classification of the tumor is epidermoid carcinoma. non~keratinizing

 

HiSTOLOGic GRADE
The grads of the tumor is poorly diﬁerentéated

TUMOR S§ZE
The maximum dimension of the tumor is 511 cm

VASCULAR INVASEON
Vascular invaséon by tumor is aresent, mimopic

PLEURAL iNVOLVEMENT
Pieuraf énvolvemant is no; evatuabie

SAMF'LED SPECiMBN MARGINS
The sampled surgical margins are uninvofved by turns:

PRIMARY YUMOR
T21)

RESIGNAL LYMPH MODES
The total number of metastaticaﬁy-Snvoived lymph nodes is 13
N9

DSSTANT METASTAS!S
MX

 

 

 

Page 4 5f 4
END OF REPORT

 

