UUID:85852573-437F-466E-BFAD-7E7SSDD45322
TCGA-AF-ASSN-BlA-PR Redacted

{H{filialHill'u‘l'l‘lﬂﬂlllHildl‘l'l'n'l'hﬂ'l
IllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIHlIHIIIIIIIIIlIIlllll

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis

A. Uterus, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, supracervical
hysterectomy:

Endometrium: Benign inactive endometrium

Myometrium: Benign leiomyomata

Serosa: No pathological abnormalities

Bilateral ovaries: Benign with cystic follicles and minimal surface
adhesions

Bilateral fallopian tubes: Benign with no pathologic abnormalities

B. Rectum and sigmoid colon, excision:

Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, invasive into
perirectal/colonic fat (pT3)

Resection margins negative for malignancy

33 lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/33) (pNO)

C. Appendix, excision:
Benign appendix with mucosal lymphoid hyperplasia, within normal limits

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic examination performed. The colorectal findings from
specimen B. are summarized in the template:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): Invasive into fat (pT3)

Proximal margin: Negative

Distal margins: Negative

Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative

Distance of tumor from closes margin: 1.9 CM from distal/rectal margin
Vascular invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): 33 lymph nodes are negative for metastatic
tumor (pNO)

Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified

Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable (pr)

Other findings: There is surface ulceration of tumor and some
associated acute and chronic inflammation of the tumor with
Crohn's—like chronic inflammation deep to the tumor. The invasion into
fat is only identified in block B3

MSI testing: Ordered on block B2

Specimen

A. Uterus tubes and ovaries
E. Rectum and sigmoid

C. Appendix

Clinical Information
Rectal cancer
Intraoperative Consultation

A. Uterus, tubes and ovaries: Benign inactive endometrium.

B. Rectum & sigmoid, excision: Negative for tumor.

ICD~O —3
A'Dl €110 06L/‘C (no mm ; NOS

Gross Description

A. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "uterus
tubes and ovaries“ is a 294 g, supracervically amputated uterus which
is 7.5 x 7.5 x 7.5 cm. The specimen is partially covered pink—tan
smooth glistening serosa showing 3 subserosal fibroid ranging from 1.3
cm to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. Amputation site is inked. The
specimen has attached bilateral fallopian tubes which are both
fimbriated measuring 8.0 x 0.7 cm. The ovaries are also present
averaging 3.2 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm and are pink—tan and cerebriform with a
pink~tan cystic and mottled cut surface. No papillary excrescences are
grossly identified. The specimen is opened show smooth glistening
endometrium with an average thickness of 0.2 cm. The specimen is
sectioned to show multiple intramural fibroids which range from 0.1 cm
to 5.5 cm in greatest dimension. Due to the nodular distortion of the
specimen, average thickness of the myometrium cannot be grossly
determined. Possible cystic spaces may be grossly identified subjacent
to the endometrium a 1.2 cm area. This is located within 2.8 cm of the
amputation site. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted
as follows: AFS 1 representative section of endometrium and myometrium
,1 — representative section of amputation site 2 — 3 — representative
endomyometrium with subjacent fibroid and area of cystic spaces, 4 -
are present at section of 2 smaller subserosal fibroids, 5 —
representative section of large subserosal fibroid, 6 - 8 -
representative section of largest intramural fibroid, 9 ~
representative right ovary, 10 - representative left ovary, ll —
representative right fallopian tube with entire fimbria, 12 -
representative left fallopian tube with entire fimbria. RS 12

B. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "rectum
and sigmoid" is a 26.5 cm long portion of rectosigmoid colon which is
partially covered with abundant yellow lobular fat and pink—tan smooth
glistening serosa. Retroperitoneal reflection is located 8.5 cm from
the distal end which is inked black. The specimen is opened to show a
5.5 x 4.8 x 0.8 cm exophytic tumor coming within 1.9 cm of distal
margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows invasion into the muscularis
propria but shows no discrete invasion into the fat. This comes within
2.5 cm or greater of the radial margin. The remainder of the mucosa is
pink—tan smooth glistening with an average circumference of 5.5 cm
showing no other discrete gross lesions identified. Multiple lymph
nodes are grossly identified in the surrounding fat. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BFS 1 representative
radial section of distal margin 1 — representative luminal margins, 2 —
tumor to distal margin, 3 — 5 — additional representative sections of
tumor to fat and tumor to normal, 6 — representative section of radial
margin en face, 7 — l3 - 5 possible lymph nodes in each block, 14 - 2
possible lymph nodes, 15 - 1 possible lymph node bisected. RS 15.

C. Received in formalin labeled "appendix" is a 7.9 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm
grossly unremarkable appendix. The specimen is sectioned to show an
intact wall with no discrete gross lesions identified. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted in 2 cassettes with the proximal
end inked blue. RS 2.

   
 

  
 

 

 

