SPECIMEN
Right kidney

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Right renal mass

GROSS DESCRIPTION
Received fresh in a container labeled "right kidney" is a
762 gm, 18 x 11.5 x 8.5 cm, kidney, with attached probe
patent 5 cm long segment of ureter averaging 0.4 cm in diameter.
There is an irregular 4 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm fragment of yellow—orange
adrenal tissue s hin the perirenal adipose tissue.
Discussion with_ confirms that this is only a portion
of the adrenal dney itself spans an area 11.5 x 7 x
5.5 cm. There is a smooth tan—pink capsule which strips with
relative ease. There is a spherical 3 cm in diameter circumscribed
yellow—orange lesion within the upper portion of the kidney. The
tumor grossly appears confined to the kidney, and is 2 cm from the
closest surface. Per the clinical request, a portion of tumor and
of normal kidney are submitted for tissue procurement. The renal
pelvis is smooth, glistening, and tan—white. The uninvolved renal
parenchyma is red—brown with a well defined corticomedullary
junction, with a maximal cortical thickness of 1.4 cm. No
additional focal lesions are identified. RS—lO, following
fixation.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — vascular and ureteral margins; 2—6 — tumor,
including relationship to surface of specimen and uninvolved
parenchyma; 7 — r l pelvis; 8,9 — kidney away from tumor; 10 —
adrenal gland.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma

Histologic grade (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): 2

Primary tumor (pT): pT1a. The tumor is 3 cm in greatest dimension

and is limited to the kidney.

Margins of resection: Negative

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNX

Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Adrenal gland: Negative for tumor

Vascular invasion: Not identified

Non—neoplastic kidney: There are sclerotic glomeruli and chronic

inflammation in the parenchyma immediately surrounding the tumor,
but these changes are not seen significantly in the parenchyma
away from the mass. There is some pigment in tubular cells, which
may be lipofuscin. This pigment does not stain for iron.

4,18

DIAGNOSIS
Kidney and adrenal gland, right, excision
— Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, 3 cm in greatest dimension,
limited to kidney, margins negative for malignancy.
— Portion of adrenal gland, negative for tumor.

 

——— End Of Report ———

