Page 1 of 6

    
    
 

REPORT
PATH
A/S:

Rec:
Col:

 

Pathologist:
Assistant:

Attending MD:
Ordering MD:

C , . CGA—23—2084
opies To.

DIAGNOSIS:

   

1—5: “RIGHT IP NUDE", EXCISION, OMENTUM, PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY,
OMENTUM, BIOPSY, ROUND LIGAMENT, BIOPSY, CUL DE SAC TUMOR“,
EXCISION:

—Metastatic high—grade serous carcinoma extensively involving
soft tissues and lymphovascular spaces (regional lymphatics)
in all five involved sites

5. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO—OOPHORECTOMY:
—Right ovarian serous carcinoma, grade III {see comment)
~Ovary (ovarian parenchyma) is nearly totally replaced by
carcinoma
—Serosal surface of ovary is involved by tumor
—Lymphovascular space invasion by tumor in ovary is
extensive
—Fallopian tube with secondary involvement of serosa, wall
and lymphatics, including mucosal lymphatics by serous
carcinoma
—Adnexal soft tissues/ligaments and regional (adnexal)
lymphovascular spaces are also extensive involved by
serous carcinoma
—Ovary also shows follicular cyst

7. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT SALPINGO~OOPHORECTOMY:
—Left ovary with serous carcinoma, grade III (see comment)
—Ovary (ovarian parenchyma) is subtotally replaced by
carcinoma
—Serosal surface of ovary is involved by tumor
—Lymphovascular space invasion by tumor within ovary is
extensive
—Fallopian tube with intramucosal/intraepithelial high—grade
serous carcinoma, serous carcinoma within tubal lymphatics,
and involving serosal surface of fallopian tube
—Serous carcinoma also involves adnexal soft tissue/ligament
and lymphovascular spaces within adnexal soft tissues
—Ovary also shows a luteinized follicular cyst, a mesothelial
cyst and stromal edema

8. [MESENTERY], "SIGMOID TUMOR”, EXCISION:
—Metastatic serous carcinoma virtually replacing soft tissues
and extensively involving regional lymphovascular spaces

9. LYMPH NODE, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
~0ne lymph node showing near total replacement by metastatic
serous carcinoma (1/1)
—Metastatic serous carcinoma is also present in regional
lymphatic and perinodal fat

10. "

 

 

Page 2 of 6

~Metastatic serous carcinoma extensive involving mesenteric fat
and regional lymphovascular spaces

.11. [MESENTERY/SEROSA], JEJUNUM "TUMOR”, EXCISION:
—Metastatic serous carcinoma extensively involving soft tissues
(mesenteric fat) and regional lymphovascular spaces

12. UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:
—Serous carcinoma, high—grade (see comment) involving:

—Lymphovascu1ar spaces (regional lymphatics) within
endometrial mucosa, uterine wall, including deep aspect of
wall, and subserosal lymphatics of uterus

—Areas of endometrial mucosal involvement by serous
carcinoma, favor metastatic, with intramucosal extension
from involved lymphatics

—Patchy foci of myometrial invasion by serous carcinoma,
including in deep aspect of uterine wall, probably via
extension from involved lymphatics

—Cervix (ectocervix and endocervix) with extensive
lymphovascular space invasion by serous carcinoma
including lymphatics deep within wall, intramucosal
lymphatics and lymphatics near external surface

—Lymphovascular space invasion by serous carcinoma within
cervix extends very close to (within less than 1 mm of the
surgical margin)

~other findings include:

—Disordered proliferative to focally minimally hyperplastic
endometrium (latter simple type without significant atypia)
with focal superimposed secretory—like changes and foci of
ciliated epithelial metaplasia

~Reactive lymphoid aggregates within endometrial mucosa

—Four small uterine leiomyomas, one of which exhibits focal
"epithelioid" features

hAdenomyosis

—Uterine serosal adhesions

—Microglandular endocervical hyperplasia and foci of mild
macroglandular endocervical hyperplasia without significant
cellular atypia

~Foci of ciliated metaplasia of endocervical epithelium
~Endocervical nabothian cysts ,

—Cervix with minimal (focal) superficial mucosal erosions,
acute and Chronic inflammation, reserve cell hyperplasia,
squamous metaplasia, and reactive epithelial changes
—Focal parakeratosis of ectocervical squamous epithelium

 

l3. ILEUM (TERMINAL). RIGHT COLON, MESENTERY, AND REGIONAL LYMPH
NODES, SEGMENTAL RESECTION:
—Metastatic serous carcinoma, multifocal, involving:
hA 4 cm diameter area of the cecum; tumor involvement of
cecum involves the serosa, subserosa, full thickness of
muscular wall, submucosa and focally the mucosa
~Second 4.5 cm tumor mass involving distal right colon;
involvement of distal right colon is also transmural with
with involvement of serosa, subserosa, full thickness of
muscular wall, submucosa and focally the mucosa
—Regional lymphovascular spaces invasion by tumor in
vicinity of cecal and distal right colon masses, as well
as elsewhere in colon and mesentery/pericolic fat is
extensive
—Multiple other nodular and plaque like deposits of
metastatic tumor ranging from microscopic to about 1 cm
in maximum dimension are present within other segments of
the right colon, the Small intestine, and pericolic/
mesenteric fat
—Metastatic carcinoma is present about 1 cm from the
proximal (ileal) margin of resection
~Bulk tumor (nodular aggregate of carcinoma) is present
about 2 cm from the distal (colonic) margin of resection
~Metastatic carcinoma within lymphatics is present about 3

Page 3 of 6

mm from the distal surgical margin
—Four of four mesenteric/pericolic/small intestinal lymph
nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma (4/4); the
involved lymph nodes are subtotally replaced by tumor
~Tumor is also present in perinodal lymphatic and perinodal
fat

COMMENT:
This high—grade primary ovarian (bilateral ovarian) serous carcinoma
exhibits predominantly solid growth (with a “undifferentiated"«like
appearance}, and also exhibits papillary growth and focal glandular
growth. Both fallopian tubes exhibit secondary involvement by
serous carcinoma. In addition, the left fallopian tube shows and
area of intraepithelial/intramucosal carcinoma, which may be primary
to that site. Intraluminal aggregates of serous carcinoma are also
present in the left fallopian tube. There is extensive lympho—
vascular space invasion by carcinoma in all involved sites,
including the uterus and cervix. within the uterus, the endometrial
mucosal involvement by serous carcinoma is predominantly within
lymphatic spaces. There are, however, a few small foci of mucosal
involvement extrinsic to lymphatics. While the latter might
represent primary uterine papillary serous carcinoma, the alternate
possibility that the endometrial deposits of tumor within the
uterus represent secondary ex ' ' '
lymphatic spaces is favored.

  
   

HISTORY: Ovarian carcinoma

MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.

GROSS:
l. RIGHT I P NODE

Labeled with the patient’s name, designated right IP node" and
received in formalin is an irregular 1.9 x 1.6 x 1.2 cm firm, white—
tan nodular aggregate of tumor.

Representative section.

A: Tumor — l

2. OMENTUM

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'omentum”, received fresh
in the Operating Room for intraoperative frozen section diagnosis is
a 23 x 12 x 1.3 cm portion of lobulated yellow omental fat which is
extensively involved by nodular and plaque like aggregates of firm,
tan—white tumor, some of the tumor aggregates are confluent. The
largest individual tumor aggregate measures about 3 cm in greatest
dimension. Two representative sections of omental tumor are frozen
and sectioned for intraoperative diagnosis. The remaining frozen
tissue and the rest of the specimen are then fixed in formalin.
Representative sections.

B: Remnant of frozen section (omental tumor) — 2

C: Omental tumor ~ 1

3. OMENTUM BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'omentum biopsy“ and
received in formalin is an irregular 4 x 4 x 0.7 cm portion of yellow
omental fat, which is partially replaced by nodular and plaque like
aggregates of firm, tan—white tumor, measuring up to 1.2 cm in
greatest dimensions.

Representative sections.

Page 4 of 6

D: Omentum with tumor — 1
4. ROUND LIGAMENT

Labeled with the patient's name, designated ”round ligament“ and
received in formalin are two irregular aggregates of firm, tan—white
tumor each with a small amount of attached uninvolved yellow—tan
focally hemorrhagic fibroadipose tissue.

Representative sections.

E: Tumor h 2

5. CUL-DE—SAC TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, designated “cul de sac tumor" and
received in formalin is a 2.7 x 2.2 x 1 cm aggregate of multiple
irregularly shaped fragments of firm, tan-white tumor, some of which
have a small amount of attached uninvolved hemorrhagic red—tan soft
tiseue.

Representative sections.

F: Tumor — 2

6. RIGHT TUBE AND QUERY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated right tube and ovary',
received fresh in the Operating Room and subsequently fixed in
formalin, is a salpingo—oophorectomy specimen including an entire
ovary, and adjacent fallopian tube, and adjacent/intervening adnexal
soft tissues. The ovary is 3.3 x 2.9 x 2.6 cm and has a lobulated
yellow—tan focally nodular external surface with small nodular and
plaque like aggregates of serosal tumor. Cut surfaces of the ovary
reveal near total replacement by firm, variegated tan—white—yellow
tumor. There is minimal residual uninvolved ovarian parenchyma, a
small 0.3 cm diameter fluid—filled cyst is also noted in the ovary.
The fallopian tube, complete with fimbriae at one end is about 6.2 cm
long and has an average cross sectional diameter of about 0.7 cm.
The serosal surface of the fallopian tube, particularly near the
fimbriated end is distorted by firm, small nodular and plaque like
aggregates of whiteetan tumor. The adnexal soft tissues also are
involved by similarwappearing firm, tan—white tumor aggregate,
measuring up to about 1 cm in diameter. Cross sections of the
fallopian tube reveal a central patent lumen, about 0.3 cm in
diameter, and a 0.2 cm average wall thickness.

Representative sections.

G: Fallopian tube and mesosalpinx — 2

H—K: Ovary — l

7. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name, designated “left tube and ovary” and
received in formalin is a salpingo—oophorectomy specimen including
the entire ovary, fallopian tube, and ligamentous adnexal soft
tissues. The ovary is 3.9 x 2.9 x 1.7 cm and has a lobulated tan
external surface. The serosal surface of the ovary is distorted by
nodular and plaque-like aggregates of firm, tanhwhite tumor,
measuring up to about 0.8 cm in diameter. Cut sections of the ovary
reveal subtotal replacement by firm, tan—white tumor. There is a
small amount of intervening edematous appearing uninvolved ovarian
parenchyma and an amber 1.2 cm diameter cyst with a smooth lining and
a 0.1 cm wall thickness. The fallopian tube, complete with fimbria
at one is 6.3 cm long and has an average cross sectional diameter of
about 0.5 cm. The serosal surface of the fallopian tube is pinketan
and shows tiny foci, up to about 0.3 cm in diameter of nodular to
plaque like aggregates of firm, tan—white tumor. Cross sections of
the fallopian tube reveal a central patent lumen, about 0.2 cm in
diameter and a 0.1 cm average wall thickness. The adjacent
ligamentous paratubal and paraovarian soft tissues are also partially
replaced by nodular to plaque like aggregates of similar—appearing
firm, tan—white tumor, measuring up to about 0.5 cm in diameter.
Representative sections.

 

L: Fallopian tube and mesosalpinx v 2
M—0: Ovary with tumor — 1 each
P: Ovary with tumor and cyst ~ 2

8. SIGMOID TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, designated “sigmoid tumor“ and
received in formalin is a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm aggregate of several
irregularly shaped fragments of firm. tanwwhite tumor, ranging from
about 0.3 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension.

Representative sections.

Q: Tumor — 4

9. LEFT PELVIC NODE

Labeled with the patient's name, designated Fleft pelvic node" and
received in formalin is a 2.8 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm lymph node with scant
attached yellow fat. Cut sections of the lymph node reveal near
total replacement by firm. white—tan metastatic tumor.

There is total replacement of lymphoid parenchyma by white firm ‘
Representative section.

R: One lymph node h l

10. MESENTERIC TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, designated “mesenteric tumors and
received in formalin is a 2 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm aggregate of several
fragments of yellow—tan fibroadipose tissue which are subtotally to
near totally replaced by firm, tan—white tumor

Entirely submitted.

S: Mesenteric tumor w multiple

ll. JEJUNUM TUMOR

Labeled.with the patient's name, designated “jejunum tumor“ and
received in formalin are several irregular to nodular aggregates of
firm, tan—white tumor, some of which have a small amount of attached
uninvolved yellow adipose tissue. The individual tumor nodules range
from about 0.5 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimensions.

Representative sections.

T: Jejunal tumor — multiple

12. UTERUS

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'uterus“ and received in
formalin is a 190 gram total hysterectomy specimen. The uterine
corpus is symmetric, measuring 5.8 cm superior to inferior, 5.6 cm
cornu to cornu, and 4.9 cm anterior to posterior. The serosa is
tan—red and roughened with abundant tumor studding. The cervix has
a length of 4.2 cm and a diameter of 4.4 cm There is a 1.1 cm slit—
like patent as. The ectocervical mucosa is pink—white and smooth,
without obvious lesions. The transformation zone is distinct. The
endocervical canal is 2.1 cm in length and is is tan and rugose.

The endometrial cavity is 4.5 cm in length, 3.5 cm in width, and is
lined by a soft red—tan, smooth endometrium with a thickness of 0.3
cm. The endometrium is grossly unremarkable. The myometrium is 3.2
cm in maximum thickness. There are two subserosal and two
intramural sharply circumsoribed, firm, whorled, tan—white spherical
leiomyomas, ranging from 0.3 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. On
sectioning the cut surfaces are firm, tanwwhite and whorled without
areas of hemorrhage, necrosis, or calcifications. The myometrium is
otherwise grossly unremarkable.

Representative sections.

U: Leiomyomas u 4

v: Serosal tumor deposits — 3

W: Anterior uterine corpus w 1

X: Posterior uterine corpus — 1

Y: Anterior cervix—1

Z- Posterior cervix—1

Page 5 of 6

Page 6 of 6

ADDITIONAL REPRESENTATIVE SECTIONS

G2: Uterine fundus - 1

H2: Anterior uterine corpus w 1

I2: Anterior lower uterine segment — 1

J2: Posterior uterine corpus — l

KK: Posterior lower uterine corpus and lower uterine segment — l

13. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON

Labeled with the patient‘s name, designated ”terminal ileum and
right colon" received in the fresh state in the Operating Room for
intra—operative gross consultation and subsequently fixed in
formalin is a segment of right colon, 20.3 cm long and 6.5 cm in
average circumference, with 27.7 cm of attached small bowel that is
4.9 cm in average circumference. There is moderate pericolic fat
and mesenteric fat. within the adipose tissue are multiple tumor
nodules. No appendix is identified grossly. The serosa is tan—red
and dull with multiple areas of serosal tumor studding . 0n opening
the bowel contains minimal fecal material. There are two areas of
mucosal protrusion, one is 4.0 cm in greatest dimension in the
cecum, and the other it is 4.5 cm in greatest dimension and is 2.5
cm from the distal margin. These masses are extending in word from
the mesentery and secondarily invade the bowel wall.

Representative sections.

A2: Proximal margin—1

BZ: Distal margin—l

CZ: Cecal mass—1

D2: Distal mass—1

EZ—FZ: Mesenteric nodules/lymph nodes?—2 each

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):
- 01mm, PARTIAL omnmecrom:
— Poorly differentiated/undifferentiated carcinoma, favor
mullerian—derived

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON:
— Portion of tumor within mesentery, submitted for clonogenic

issays

Special Studies: Clonogenic assay; inhibin (P), additional H&E~
stained section (L)

I, W, the pathologist of record, have
per specimen, interpreted the

results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

See Alsol

 

