 

 

 

 

   
   
  

Sex Femato
0.0.8.:

Ref PHYSruwu

 

 
 
   

Reportert

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
"”‘ ADDENDUM REPORT ”"

BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: BIack(A4)

 

 

 

TEST RESULT REFERENCE RANGES
Estrogen Receptor: egg-1mg (93%) z 1% is Positive
< 1% is Negative
Staining intensity. Strong
Progesterone Receptor: W {60%) z 1% Is Positive
< 1% Is Negative

Staining Intansity: Strong

 

 

 

 

Ki—67 (MIBH Proliferation Marker. HIQH (32%) > 20% Is High
“120% is Borderline
«0% is Low
Hem by IHC: M (2+ staining} 04+ Negative
2+ Equivomi
3+ Positiv:

Weak. circumferential membrane staining in > 10% of cancer suits or <30% with strong complete membraneystaining
A raﬂax to HER-2mm: by FISH (ﬂuorescent in situ hybridizationi wit! be perfumed and an additional report wili follow.

Thesa rasuiis were Inierpratedaf / " , Slides from this sample
were evaluated and deemed adequate for ERJPRlKi—B'I . W... wag». amnumu assay conditions were met, including cold ischernia time and ﬁxat‘wn

paramatera. Ni controls straw appropriate macﬁvityn

 

 

UUID: 55978086- 7443- 4721- 8543- B77CEOFC16CeOd

[Speciﬁc testing information and references hava been added to the microscopic dascripﬁon} TCGA AAc-- ASIV- 31» PR act ed
III II II I III I II I ”III I I I IIIIII I "II I III I||IIIIIIII I IIIIIII III II III

The original diagnosis remains unchanged. IIIIIII IIII IIIIII I“III|IIIIII| IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIII

Addendum Rama Issued by. - III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

DIAGNOSIS:
A Right breast mastectomy:
Invasive mammary carmnorna
Favor pieomorphic Iobuiar arcinoma
81231.2 om
Arch‘aedurai score: 3 of 3.
Nuclear scars: 2 of 3.
Mitotic score: 2 cl 3.
Totai score: 7 of 9
Grade 2.
Prognostic panel wiii foiiow as an addendum. I
No evidence of‘msitu carcinoma. _ HIM/U53 Q54) ,4
No evidence of angioiymphatic Invasion 6 ”to;
All surgicai margins of excision are free of carcinoma Q /
Ciesestmrginisdeepandisi..5cm 94 0/1713
8 Right axillary sentinei lymph node. One lymph node Metastatic carcinoma.
Size of involvement within the nodeto

   
   

 

 

 

 

' No evrdence of extracapsular extonsron.
Conﬁrmed by staining for pancytokeratin.

TMN: TZpNt

Electronic Signature:

 

CLlNlCAL HlSTORY:
Preoperative Dlagnosls: Right modiﬁed radical mastectomy with sentinel node mapping with frozen section. Invasive mammary carcinoma. ER positive,

PR positive. Her-2 negative.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Right breast
B, Right axilla sentinel node

   
   

 

a

 

.y. tor .

      

oaoss DESCRIPTION. ’ .
A. The ﬁrst container A is received labeled with the patients name ight breast.‘ The specimen consists of portion of ﬁbroadipose breast

tissue and overlying skin measuring 20.0 x 16.5 x 6.0 cm and weighs 643 grams. The skin surface measures 20.0 x 9.2 cm. is light tan, wrinkled. There
are no lesions seen grossly. The nipplels ecoentrically placed and appears grossly unremarkable. There is no orientation given to the spedmen. The
margins have been inked yellow with the exception of the deep margin. which has been inked black. Sectioning reveals a ﬁrm gray-tan ill-deﬁned mass
that measures 2.2 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm that is 1.5 cm from the deep margin and is 2.7 from the olosest lateral margin. The surrounding breast tissue reveals
yellow-tan fatty ﬁbroadipose tissue. There are no other lesions identiﬁed. At the periphery of the breast. there are no lymph nodes identiﬁed. Received
with the soecimen are three asseﬂes. one yellow, one green and one blue labeled Representative sectlons are submitted in cassettes
labeled tollowa: nipple block 1: deep margin overlying the mass in block 2; sections from the mass in blocks 3 through 7; random
sections taken now an tour quadranhs in blocks 8 through it.

B. The second container 8 is received in formalin labeled right axilla sentinel node.’ The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadioose
tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 an. Sectioning reveals a Single rymph node that measures 1.8 x 0.7 x 0.9 cm. The lymph node is sectioned and is

wubmilted in two cassettes labeled

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

 

THERAPEUTIC MARKER ASSAY CONDITIONS

Breast Cancer Analysis using lmmunohismchemishy, ' and Pathologist
review. ' is an automated digital slide creation, management, viewing
and computer-assisted analysis system which aids the pathologist in the detection. classiﬁcation,
and counting of cells of interest thereby standardizing slide scoring through quantitative

 

SEQ-’23?“ Soorin assessment of marker intensity, size and shape. This laboratory uses a modiﬁed version of 3 FDA
9 approved test. An antibody other than the FDA approved antibody forthe
system
algorithm is used.

The performance characteriatlm of these aosays have been determined by
3erforrnanon characteristics refer to the analytical permanence of the

 

 

 

  

test.
Cold lschemio Specimen should be placed in neutral buffered formalin within 1 hour of removal from the patient
Time, F ixalive, and ﬁxed for a minimum of 6 but not in excess of 48 hours. Specimen are processed by routine
Processing tissue processing methods.
Staining Method Used HT”
Staining platform. antibodies and associated reagent below are all manufactured by and o .
2

are FDA approved.

 

’97

ER ~ Anti—Estrogen receptor (clone SP1} primary antibody is a rabbit monoclonal antibody 096) that
is used for the qualitative detection of estrogen receptor antigens.

      
   
 

PgR ~ AntivProgesterone Receptor (clone 1E2} primary antibody is a rabbit monoclonal antibody g
Primary ago} that is used for the quantitative detection of the A. B and C isoforms of human progesterone E J
Antibodies receptor antigens. g, I
D

 

K1437 - Aﬂvai—S? primary antibody is directed against the lit-terminal portion of the Kl-ﬁ? antigen,
which is exoressed in the nuclei of proliferating cells (normal and neoplastic). The antibody identiﬁes
proliferatingadivéga in sections of formalin—ﬁxed, paraffin-embedded tissue on an automated slide

:wcd

 

:vl

 

 

 

 

 

QUALIFIFD ‘
. at)» . /

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. “ﬂaw _:
I sterner platform. _
HER-Zine!) — PATHWAY ‘
. Antl-HER~21neu 4B ’
granary .. WW“... w... 3: narrow . . m...
. , - neu are pre ared
animated slide 8mm, pf a”: rm. from sermons of fonnalm-ﬁxed parafﬁn-embedded [ESSUS on an
Controls All gonhols show appropriate reactivity thigh pram,”
rd 8 re
anmmnwfoomm We
. s r - . m
3:111:21; Tylzle the covalent bonds formed lagy grist: ﬂagﬂm at ablated temperatures is capitals: 0" hydrolyzing
System Type Indirect biotin streptavlclin detection system “1

 

 

