 

UUID: 3F89A591- BE16- 4EBB- 9546- 413433132“;
TCGA- SS— ABQ B- 9111- PR

ll IIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll

‘ I'I IIIIIIII llllllllllllllll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT l C b ' 0 ‘5

FINAL Mow WM, WW1. N05

Procedure Date: , 8390 / 3

Accession Date: . ,_ _-‘ ‘_

CLINICAL DATA: Fibroids, pelvic mass 3,1“, ; (,AAW‘ HOS c: ‘H
FROZEN: ” ' .

A1FS: Endometrioid carcinoma. ' 7 ' . r \p) \8

Received at reported at ,7. «a»

GROSS EXAMINATION: \

A. "Right Tube and Ovary (Frozen)". The specimen is received fresh for frozen section
designated "Right Tube and Ovary" and consists of a disrupted cystic and solid ovary
and attached fallopian tube

segment. The ovary, as received, measures approximately 9.0 x 6.0 x 4.5 cm. The
identiﬁable external surfaces are

grey-tan to pink-purple, dull and lobular. The intact portion of the external surface is
inked blue. Sectioning shows

multiple cystic spaces and a predominantly solid component composed of ﬂeshy tan-
pink lobular tissue. No

significant hemorrhage or necrosis is seen. There is no ovarian parenchyma is grossly
identified. The fallopian

tube is 8.5 cm long by 1.2 cm in diameter. Tubal fimbriae are present. The external
surface is dark pink-tan, dull

and focally shaggy. Sectioning shows a grossly unremarkable fallopian tube lumen.
Representative sections are"

submitted in eleven cassettes. A1 FS, A2-A9- ovarian mass; A10, A11- fallopian tube.
B. "Uterus, Cervix, Left Tube and Ovary". The specimen is received in formalin
designated "Uterus, Cervix, Left Tube and Ovary" and consists of an enlarged, distorted
uterus with attached cervix

and attached left adnexa The uterus and cervix together weigh 753.0 grams and
measuring 18. 4 x 13 7 x 9.9 cm.

The serosa is dark pink-red, dull with multiple hemorrhagic and fibroadipose adhesions.
The cervix is 3.5 cm in

diameter. The ectocervix is pink—tan and smooth. The ectocervical margin and cervical
stromal surfaces are inked

yellow and the uterine serosal surfaces are inked blue. The endocervix shows a 1.5 x
0.5 x 0.4 cm pink-tan smooth

endocervical polyp located in the upper endocervical canal. No other focal lesions are
seen. There is a 6.4 x 4.5 x

3.4 cm pink to tan-yellow endometrial mass involving the anterior and posterior
endometrial surfaces. Sectioning

shows apparent invasion of the myometrium to a depth of 3.0 cm out of a total
myometrial thickness of 6.5 cm

(inner one-half). The mass does not extend into the lower uterine segment and is
approximately 5 cm from the

nearest paracervical margin. The myometrium is very coarsely trabecular andvthere are
rare circumscribed tanwhite

to yellow rubbery whorled nodules, some of which are calcified measuring up to 2.2 cm.
The left adnexa

weighs 54.5 grams and measures 10.4 x 5.6 x 3.8 cm. Sectioning shows a disrupted
complex cystic adnexal mass.

The cystic structures show focally hemorrhagic, smooth dull inner surfaces. Ovarian
parenchyma is seen. Multiple

luminal structures are seen, however, a well-defined fallopian tube is identified.
Representative sections are

submitted in 29 cassettes. 81- serosal adhesions; B2- anterior cervix; B3— anterior upper
endocervix, black ink on

cervical end; 84- posterior cervix; B5- posterior upper endocervix, black ink on cervical
and ; 86-38. 89-311,

SURGICAL PA THOLOGY REPORT

FINAL

B12-B14- full-thickness sections of endomyometrium with blue inked serosal surface;
315-816, B17- B18, B19-

BZO— full-thickness sections of endomyometrium with blue inked serosal surface; 821-
paracervical margin inked

yellow; 822- myometrial nodules; B23— 829- left adnexa.

C. "Omentum". The specimen is received in formalin designated "Omentum" and
consists of multiple portions of pink-red to tan-yellow omentum measuring 27 x 17 x 3
cm in aggregate.

Sectioning shows focal hemorrhage and ill-defined areas of slight induration.
Representative sections are submitted

in five cassettes.

D. "Para-aortic Lymph Node". The specimen is received in formalin designated
"Paraaortic

Lymph Node" and consists of fragments of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue measuring 6 x
2 x 2 cm.

Sectioning shows two possible lymph nodes measuring 1.1 and 3.8 cm. The specimen is
submitted in its entirety in

three cassettes. D1- one lymph node; DZ, D3- one lymph node bisected.

E. "Right Obturator Node". The specimen is received in formalin designated "Right
Obturator Node" and consists of a 10 x 3 x 2 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose
tissue. Sectioning shows two

possible lymph nodes measuring 2.5 x 5.3 cm. Submitted in toto in three cassettes. E1-
one lymph node bisected;

E2, E3- one lymph node sectioned.

F. "Left lliac Node". The specimen is received in formalin designated "Left lliac Node"

and consists of one lymph node measuring 2.2 cm. Bisected and submitted in toto in one
cassette.

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Right fallopian tube and ovary, salpingo—oophorectomy:

Right ovary involved with endometrioid adenocarcinoma; see comment.

Right fallopian tube negative for carcinoma.

B. Uterus, cervix, left fallopian tube and ovary, hysterectomy, salpingo—oophorectomy:
Endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium, invading the myometrium 30 mm out
of

a total myometrial thickness of 65 mm (less than 50% myometrial invasion).

Uterine serosa with focal endometriosis.

Uterine leiomyomata.

Cervix with invasion of cervical stromal connective tissue by endometrioid
adenocarcinoma.

Resection margins are negative.

Left ovary with endometriotic cysts; negative for carcinoma.
Left fallopian tube with hydrosalpinx; negative for carcinoma.
0. Omentum, omentectomy:

Fibroadipose tissue negative for carcinoma.

D. Para-aortic lymph nodes, regional resection:

SURGICAL PA THOLOG Y REPORT
FINAL

Two lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/2).
E. Right obturator nodes, regional resection:
Two lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/2).
F. Left iliac node, excisional biopsy:

One lymph node negative for carcinoma.
COMMENT:

Given the presence of tumor in both the endometrium and ovary, it is not clear if
synchronous primaries are present

versus an endometrial primary. If synchronous tumors are clinically favored, then the
ovarian tumor is staged as

pT1cNOM0 and the uterine tumor is staged as T2NOM0. However, if an endometrial
primary is clinically favored,

then the tumor is staged as T3aNOM0 based on the presence of ovarian involvement.

\

CPT Code: 88331, 88307 x 3, 88309, 88305

 

