SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

De-ldentified Specimen Code: -
Patient Age/Sex -

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: RIGHT UPPER LOBE
Part B: 10R

Part C: 11R

Final Diagnosis
1. Right lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (A) - Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (see
comment)

- Separate focus of minimally invasive adenocarcinoma (WHO adenocarcinoma, mixed type with
bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma and acinar components).
- Centriiobular emphysema.

2. Lymph nodes, 10R, 11R, excision (B. C) - Lymph nodes, negative for neoplasm.

 

Page 1 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
1.
Tumor Location: Right upper lobe (squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma)

Tumor Size: Squamous cell carcinoma: 1.8 x 1.7 x 1.3 cm.
Adenocarcinoma: 1.5 x 1 x 0.8 cm. The focus of invasive acinar pattern measures 0.8 cm.

Vascular Invasion: not identified in any tumor.

Lymphatic invasion: Present in the squamous cell carcinoma; not identified in the adenocarcinoma.

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC); The histopathologlc morphology of the current squamous cell carcinoma is similar to
the patients previous squamous cell carcinoma in the left upper lobe which was

reviewed for comparison, arguing in favor of a metastatic process. However. a second synchronous squamous
cell carcinoma can not be excluded.

The pathologic staging for the adenocarcinoma is p stage lA (T'la N0 MX).

General comments: EGFR mutation analysis will be performed and the results reported as an
addendum.

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Ordered
Text: {Not Entered}

lntraogeratlve Diagnosis:
A. Bronchial margin negative for carcinoma

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG NODULES

 

Page 2 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "right upper lobe" is a lobectomy specimen of the upper
lobe of the right lung (16 x 13 x 2.5 cm, 230 g). The pleura appears smooth with few anthracotic
nodules and no retraction. A 1.8 x 1.7 x 1.3 cm firm tan-white poorly circumscribed nodule is present at
0.1 cm from the parenchymal surface and at 1 cm from the bronchial margin. The tumor does not invade
through the pleura (inked blue). The remainder of the lung parenchyma appears red—brown. A slightly
lndurated subpleurai area (1 cm) is present located 3 cm from the main nodule. Representative sections
are submitted as follows: A1 bronchial margin shave frozen section, A2 bronchus, A3 vascular margin
(vein), A4 parenchymal margin shave including artery, A5~A8 nodule, A9 peribronchiai tissue with
possible lymph nodes, A10 indurated lung parenchyma.

8. Received fresh labeled ”10R" are multiple fragments of tan-pink soft tissue aggregating to 1.7 x 0.8 x
0.3 cm. Totally submitted in formalin in cassette Bi.

C. Received fresh labeled ”HR" is an irregular segment of tan~pink soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.8 x
0.4 cm. Totally submitted in formalin in cassette Ct.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

 

Page 3 of 3

