16345-3

Carat/1o ma. ,Jémus 3’33? I3

UUID: BEFEFEGB- BBSE- 45E6- 9CF4- FEAGBIBGBSEDd ‘ . \
TCGA- OY- ASGQ -81A- PR 3 )‘C _ gig \ HUD/5 OW

II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIEd 6514
I

I
II I IIIIIIII | IIIIII I IIII II IIIIIII |II IIIIIII I IIII III
Diagnosis: AQ/%h2§€%t>

—A: Ovary and fallopian tube, left, left salping0*oophorectomy
Histologic type: serous carcinoma

Histologic grade: poorly differentiated

Tumor size: 8 x 8 x 7 cm per gross measurement

Ovarian surface involvement: not identified

Status of capsule: intact
Extent of involvement of other tissues/organs:

Left fallopian tube Hydrosalpinx and positive for serous
carcinoma,

predominantly detached within the lumen and focally involving
mucosa (see

comment).

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):

Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 14

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pTla pNO pr (see comment)

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the

time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical

review and
additional information.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III CQCF (Dacia

Ir

Other findings:
- Fibrous serosal adhesions

B: Fallopian tube and ovary, right, salpingo-oophorectomy

— Atrophic ovary with epithelial inclusion glands and cysts
- Fallopian tube with paratubal cysts

— Tubo-ovarian adhesions

— No malignancy identified

C: Omentum, partial omentectomy
~ Omentum with no malignancy identified

D: Lymph nodes, left common iliac, regional resection
— Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma {0/4)

E: Lymph nodes, left periaortic, regional resection
— Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

F: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional resection
- Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6)

Comment:

The majority of the serous carcinoma is present in the ovary in
specimen A.

Representative section of right fallopian tube shows
predominantly intraluminal

serous carcinoma with focal attachment and involvement of
mucosa. No

parenchymal invasive carcinoma is identified in the right
fallopian tube. Based

on the majority of the tumor present in ovary and predominantly
luminal tumor

within the fallopian tube without significant mucosal in situ
carcinoma or

parenchymal invasion identified in the fallopian tube, ovarian
origin of the

serous carcinoma is favored. The scenarios include primary ovary
serous

carcinoma with secondary involvement of fallopian tube, primary
Vfallopian tube

carcinoma with secondary involvement of ovary and two
synchronous primaries. An

ovarian primary is favored as discussed above, although an
origin in the

fallopian tube cannot be entirely excluded by pathologic
examination.

Note, no peritoneal washings are received. The pathologic stage
is based on
examination of the surgical specimens only.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by

FSAl: Oyary and tube, left, left salpingo—oophorectomy
- High grade carcinoma, favor serous?

Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:
year-old female with an adnexal mass.

Gross Description:

Received are six appropriately labeled containers. Specimen A is
received fresh

for frozen section.

Container A is additionally labeled "left tube and ovary."
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: salpingo—oophorectomy

Tumor site: left

Ovary/tumor size: 215 grams, 8.0 x 8.0 x 7.0 cm, which is
received intact

Ovarian surface: pink/tan, smooth and glistening with diffuse
fibrofatty
adhesions and excrescences absent

Description of tumor: The specimen consists of a unilocular cyst
that is filled

with brown serous fluid and loosely adherent clumps

of brown material; there are two foci of tan friable papillary
excrescences

up to 2.1 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.

The wall ranges from 0.1 cm thick up to 0.4 cm thick. Normal
ovarian
parenchyma is absent.

Fallopian tube: present, without fimbria and is embedded within
the wall,

4.2 cm long x 0.6 cm in diameter; the wall is 0.2 cm

thick; the lumen is patent and the mucosa is tan and friable;
the

lumen is partially filled with adherent yellow/tan

gelatinous material

Digital Picture: not taken
Tissue submitted for Special Investigation: no
Block summary:

FSAl — frozen section remnant

A2—A7 - ovarian cyst with excrescences, blocks A2-A4; external
surface is

inked black in A4

A8—A9 - fallopian tube

Container B is additionally labeled "right adnexa." It consists
of a 4.7 x 3.7 x

2.6 cm portion of adipose tissue that encases a 3.4 X 1.5 x 1.5
cm ovary and a

3.2 cm long x 0.5 cm in diameter fimbriated fallopian tube. The
ovary has a 0.8

x 0.7 x 0.7 cm intraparenchymal empty simple cyst that is lined
by smooth and

glistening wall without excrescences. The wall is less than 0.1
cm thick. The

fallopian tube has a pinpoint lumen with a tan mucosa.

Block summary:
Bl—B4 — ovary and fallopian tube with longitudinal fimbria in 82

and ovarian
cyst in BB

Container C is additionally labeled "omentum." It consists of a
9.1 x 6.2 x 1.3

cm unremarkable segment of omentum that is represented in block
C1.

Container D is additionally labeled "left common iliac nodes."
It consists of a

2.5 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm portion of adipose tissue that contains four
lymph node

candidates ranging from 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm up to 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4
cm in greatest

dimension.

Block summary:

D1 — four lymph node candidates
D2 — remainder of specimen for potential lymph node candidates,

Container E is additionally labeled "left periaortic node." It
consists of a 1.7

x 1.3 x 1.0 cm portion of adipose tissue that contains two lymph
node candidates

(1.2 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm and 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm). (Block E1,

Container F is additionally labeled "left pelvic nodes." It
consists of a 4.3 x

3.1 x 1.8 cm aggregate of adipose tissue that is bisected for
lymph node

candidates. Six lymph node candidates are identified ranging
from 0.4 cm in

greatest dimension up to 3.9 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension.

Block Summary:

F1 — two lymph nodes

F2,F3,F4 each contains one lymph node candidate, serially
sectioned

F5—F7 — one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

F8,F9 — remainder of adipose tissue for potential lymph node
candidates,

 

