  

InFA

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Pathologist:
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1: LEFT OVARY AND FROZEN SECTION:
—Serous carcinoma with focal papillary and clear cell featu
—Nuclear grade 3/3
~Focal necrosis and psammoma bodies are present
—Tumor involves entire ovary
—No definitive lymphatic invasion is identified
—Capsular invasion is present

2: RIGHT OVARY:
—Serous carcinoma
—Nuclear grade 3
—No definitive lymphatic invasion identified
—80% of ovary involved with focal necrosis and capsular invasion
—Fallopian tube without evidence of tumor 5

3: UTERUS AND CERVIX:
HProliferative endometrium
—Uterine leiomyoma
—Cervix with Nabothian cysts
—Negative for malignancy

 

4: OMENTUM No.1:
—Omentum with focal lymphocytic aggregates and mesothelia
hyperplasia
HNegative for malignancy

5: OMENTUM no.2:
—Omentum with lymphocytes and mesothelial hyperplasia-
—Benign lymph node
~Negative for malignancy

  
  

6: OMENTUM No.3:
HScattered clusters of ma‘i onsistent with ovarian
primary, fat necrosis, a ion, calcifications,
granulation tissue and hemosiderineladen macrophages

  

gnant cells

  

7: ILEUM ADHESION BIOPSY:
—Fat and fibrous tissue with acute and chronic inflammation,
and numerous macrophages
~Negative for malignancy :

 

 

20ft!

 

8: LIVER BIOPSY: .
ePortal tract lymphocytic infiltrates and venous dilatation in

subcapsular liver specimen
~Negative for malignancy

9: APPENDIX:
~Appendix without histopathologic abnor al'

—Negative for malignancy

COMMENT: - _ has reviewed the sl

    
 

HISTORY: Possible ovarian cancer, metastasis to the chest

MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l:‘ LEFT OVARY AND FROZEN SECTION

Labeled "left ovary and frozen section", received fresh partially
utilized for frozen section and subsequently placed in formalin, is a
580 gram greatly enlarged bosselated tan—pink, hemorrhagic ovary
measuring 13.0 x 12.5 x 6.0 cm. The surface of the ovary has focal
tan~yellow discoloration along with several cystic structures filled
with clear serous fluid ranging in size from 0.5 to 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. On section the ovary is obliterated by a solid
friable tan mass. Several cystic spaces are present throughout the
mass ranging in size from 0.5 to 4.0 cm in greatest dimension. A
large amount of hemorrhage and necrosis are present throughout

the mass along with focal areas of yellow—tan discoloration. No
normal ovarian parenchyma is grossly identified. The mass grossly
invades the capsule of the ovary. Representative sections.

A—C. Ovarian lesion — 2 each

2: RIGHT OVARY ~

Labeled "right ovary“ and received in formalin is cystically enlarged
ovary with attached fallopian tube measuring 6.0 x 5.0 x 2.5 cm. The
segment of fallopian tube measures 4.0 cm in length x 0.8 x 0.7 cm.
The fimbriated end is edematous, unremarkable. On sectioning of the
fallopian tube no discrete lesions are identified. Multiple
edematous tanhpink, soft tissue adhesions are present between the
fallopian tube and ovary. The ovary is tan—grey, 4.8 x 3.7 x 2.2 cm.
0n section a solid tan—pink friable mass is present within the ovary.
The mass measures 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm. It has focal areas of tan—
yellow discoloration, necrosis and hemorrhage. The mesa composes
approximately 80% of the ovary. The remaining 20% of the ovary shows
normal ovarian parenchyma with several corpus luteum identified.

A focal area of the mass appears to invade the capsule of the ovary.
Representative sections.

D. Ovarian mass — 2
E. Mass with normal ovary and fallopian tube — 3

3: UTERUS AND CERVIX

Labeled "uterus and cervix“ and consists of a uterus with attached
cervix weighing 80 grams. The uterus measures 4.4 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm.
The serosa is tan—pink with a minimal amount of hemorrhagic tan—pink,
soft tissue adhesions. On section of the myometrium a spherical
white—tan myoma is present along the left anterior lOWer uterine
segment measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The mass is composed of
whorled white~tan, firm, soft tissue. On opening the endometrial
cavity measures 2.2 cm in width x 3.6 cm in greatest length. The

‘x'l.

      

endometrium.is tan—pink, diffusely h r agio measuring 0.1 cm in
thickness. The cervix measures 4.5 x 4.2 x 4.1 cm. The 03 measures
1.2 x 0.1 cm and is slitwlike. The ectocervix is tan—pink smooth and
glistening with bulges along the anterior external as due to
underlying nabothian cysts. 0n opening the endocervical canal
measures 3.5 cm in length. The transformation zone is well
delineated. Representative sections.

Anterior cervix “ l

Posterior cervix — 1

Anterior endometrium along with myoma — 2
. Posterior myometrium and endometrium — 2

Hmﬁlh‘i

4: OMENTUM no.1

Labeled “omentum #1“ and received in formalin is a portion of tan"
yellow omentum measuring 11.0 x 4.2 x 1.3 cm. 0n sectioning the
specimen is composed mainly of mature lobulated adipose tissue with
fine vessels. No nodules are identified. Representative sections.

J. 2

5: OMENTUM no.2

Labeled "omentum #2“ and consists of a portion of tan—yellow omentum
measuring 15.0 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm. On sectioning a firm, tan—white
wallwciroumscribed nodule is identified measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm.
The remaining tissue is composed of mature lobulated adipose tissue
with fine vessels. No other discrete nodules are identified.
Representative sections.

K. 3

6: OMENTUM no.3 ‘
Labeled "omentum #3“ and received in formalin is a portion of tank
yellow omentum measuring 12.5 x 4.5 x 1.2 cm. On serial section a
0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm pale tan nodule is identified. The remaining
tissue is composed mainly of mature lobulated adipose tissue with
fine Vessels. No other discrete lesions are identified.
Representative sections.

L. 3

7: ILEUM ADHESION BIOPSY

Labeled "ileum adhesion biopsy" and received in formalin is an
irregular fragment of tan—pink soft tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.3 x 0.1
cm. Entirely submitted.

M. l

8: LIVER BIOPSY

Labeled "liver biopsy“ and received in formalin is an irregular
fragment of tanwyellow soft tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.4 x 1.0 cm.
A.portion of hemorrhagic tan—pink capsule is present on the specimen.
The margin is entirely inked blue. On serial section the tissue is
severely oauterized no discrete nodules are identified. Entirely

submitted.
N. 3

9: REPENDIX

Labeled "appendix“ and received in formalin is an appendix with
attached mesoappendix. The appendix measures 5.4 cm in length x 0.6
cm in diameter. The attached mesoappendix measures 3.5 x 1.4 x 0.6
cm. The serosa is taanink, slightly granular with no discrete areas
of lesions or perforations identified. On section the wall of the
appendix is tan—pink, 0.2 cm in thickness. The lumen measures 0.2 cm

 
 

dofd

 

in diameter and is filled with fecalith materiel. No discrete
lesions or perforations are identified. on sectioning of the
attached mesoappendix no discrete nodules are identified.
Representative sections.

   

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):
FS ' '

h grade adenoma. No mucinous component seen

 

 

 

