 

Final Diagnosis:

AB. Bilaterai ovaries and tubes:

1) invasive high-grade carcinoma ovarian consistent with serous
carcinoma with smelt foci of clear cell change.

2) Silverberg grade 313 (Nuclear score 3; mitotic score 2;
architecture score 3).

3) Extraovarian pelvic spread present-6 cm deposit attached to the
left fallopian tube.

4) No deﬁnite lymphatic invasion identiﬁed.

0. Uterus and cervix

1) inactive endomelh‘um.

2) Leiomyoma.

3) Benign endomelrial and endocervical polyp.
4) Benign cervical tissue.

D. pelvic wash shows reactive mesotheliat cells.
in ammatory cells; no malignant cells seen.

E. TMN stage: pTZa. Nx. Mx.

Specimens Received:
A: Ieﬂ ovary + tube

B; right tube + ovary
C: uterus + cervix
Gross Description:
Specimen is received in three containers each labelled with the palient's name.

Container “A" is labelled "ieit ovary and tube" and consists of two lesions connected together by fallopian tube—like structure. it weighs 92 9. Th ' m
-- - - . . - '- - - - - ' - - - - - - - . .The fallopian tube measures 5.5 x .7 cm. Intraoperative diagnosis done by?D

. On cot section, the ﬁrst lesion (6 cm) is composed mainly of a solid yellowish n u ar

= 2 cm yellowish nodular solid area. The cyst is ﬁiled with serous clear ﬂuid.

 
 
 

 

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

“A1 " .frozen section

"A2" -reprosenlative from the ﬁrst lesion with the fallopian
tube attachment

"AS-A4" -representative from the rest of the ﬁrst lesion

"A5" -representative from the fallopian tube with the second
lesion

"AG—AB" ~representative from the second lesion

"A9“ -represeniative from the fallopian tube.

 

 

Container “8" is labelled "right tube and ovary" and consists of a 4.5 x .7 cm fallopian tube»|il-<e structure attached to a yellowish nodular lesion. This lesion
measures it x 4 x 2.5 cm. Go out section. it shows multitoculated cysts. some ﬁlled by clear serous ﬂuid and others by mucold materiat. and a 3.5 cm solid
whitish nodular lesion.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
"81" -from the fallopian tube
"82-88" ~representative from the ovarian mass.

A part of the tumour of specimen Bis submitled for tumour bank.

Container "C" is iabelted "utems and cervix". The uterus weighs 91 g and measures 5.5 cm from the superior to inferior. 6 cm from anterior to posten'or, and 5
cm from side to side. The anterior serosat surface shows a 3.5 cm subserosal nodule. otherwise unremarkable. The cervix measures

4 x 4 x 2 cm which is unremarkable. The anterior myometriat wall shows a whitish whoded lesion, which measures 3x 2.5 x 2 cm. The anterior endometrium
appears unremarkable. The posterior myometriai wall shows a

.8 cm whitish whoried lesion. otherwise unremarkable. Two posterior lower uterine segment polyps are identiﬁed which measure .7 and 1.5 cm respectively.
The rest of the posterior endometn‘um appears unremarkable.

Representan've sections are submitted as follows:

"(11-02" -from the anterior and posterior cervix respectivety
“C3—C4" -representative from the anterior uterine wail

"'05-06‘ Arepresentative irom the anterior myometrium tesion
”07*08" -representative from the posterior uterine wall
"69-010" -representalive from the posterior endometrial polyps
“Ci 1" {representative from the posterior myometrium lesion
"012“ -re resentative from the colds-sac.

 

tntraoperativo Consultation:
FSN‘l

Gross Description: ‘i. Max 6cm
2. " 4 cm

 

 

