UUID: 437A7983- ”B259 4636- 86A6- 522EAFA|§Fe078ac
TCGA Y--A9PE 0111- PR

III IIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIII||I|IIIIIIIIII||I||II|IIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ll ||II||II|||||||l||||||||||| ||||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 
  
 

Patient Name :- _____,— Accession #: _
Med. Rec.#: * Visit #: — Service Date:

DOB: Sex: Male Received:

Soc. Sec. #: '” Location: ‘ Client:

Physician(s): -. IC@C§
WWQJ MAW/I100 6’ 817133
61 WM MAL/2:3 (’67 7

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS Qa/éﬁ/ﬂ/

M

A. Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.
B. Left ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.

C. Urinary bladder, prostate gland and bilateral seminal vesicles, cystoprostatectomy:

- Bladder: 5’70 55W“? 1W “5'
1. Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation
extensively involving muscularis propria (Stage T2), excised; see comment.
2. No tumor identiﬁed in one lymph node (0/1).

- Prostate:

1. Invasive urothelial carcinoma focally within urethral subepithelial connective
tissue (Stage T1) ; see comment.

2. Urothelial carcinoma in situ involving pen-urethral ducts; see comment.
- Seminal vesicles: No tumor identiﬁed.

D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identiﬁed in sixteen lymph nodes
(0/16).

E. Right external iliac lymph nodes, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma present in three
of four lymph nodes (3/4).

F. Right obturator lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identiﬁed in eight lymph nodes
(DIS)-

G. Right internal iliac lymph node, biopsy: No tumor identiﬁed in one lymph node
(0/1).

h Page 1 of s

 

H. Left ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.

I. Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma.

COMMENT:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment

- Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation.

- Tumor grade: High.

- Tumor size: 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm.

- Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis propria.

- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None. Immunostains for the vascular marker CD31 and the

lymphatic marker 02-40 were performed on block C7 and they fail to demonstrate deﬁnitive vascmar
invasion.

- Epithelial abnormalities In bladder: Carcinoma in situ.
- Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.
- Margins:
- Urethral margin: Negative, no tumor is present on enface frozen section margin (C1).
- Right ureter margin: Negative.
- Left ureter margin: Negative.
- Perlveaical margin: Negative (tumor is 2 mm from margin, slide C7).
- Lymph node status: Positive.
— total number of positive=nodes: 3 (all positive lymph nodes from right external iliac).
— total number of nodes examined: 30.
- Size of largest metastasis in nodes: 11 mm.
- Extranodai extension: None.
- Other pathologic ﬁndings in bladder: None.
- uccmtcc stage: pT2bN2.

Tumor Synoptic, Urethra
The prostatic urethra contains extensive carcinoma in situ (CIS), there are several foci of detached
urothelial carcinoma within the subepithelial connective tissue with paradoxical differentiation, single
cells, and jagged borders (best seen on slide C17, level 1) consistent with superﬁcial invasion into the
subepithelial connective tissue of the prostatic urethra. No tumor is seen invading from the bladder
wall into the prostate. No tumor is identified at the urethral margin.
- Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
- Tumor grade: High grade.
- Location of tumor:

Prostatlc urethra: Slides C3 and C5 (C15 only).

Prostate right base: C17.

Prostate left mid: C20 (C15 only).

Prostate left base; C21 (C15 only).
- Margins: Negative, no tumor is present on enface frozen section margin (C1).
~ Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.
- Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 30 (Assumes lymph node
metastasis from urothelial carcinoma originating in urinary bladder).
- Perlneural Invasion: None.
— AJCC stage: pT1N0.

 

Specimen(s) Received
A:Right ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:Left ureter, biopsy (F5)

" PageZofS

 

n !_

C:Bladder and prostate (FS)
D:Lymph node, ieﬂ pelvic
E:Lymph node, right external iliac
FzLymph node, right obturator
G:Lymph node, right internal iliac
H:Final left ureter

I:Finai right ureter

Intraoperative Diagnosis
F51 (A) Right ureter, biopsy: Benign ureter segment, no dysplasia, no carcinoma. " W'—
.4

F52 (B) Left ureter, biopsy: Focal epithelial atypia, no high—grade dysplasia, no carcinoma. .—
FS3 (C) Prostate urethra, biopsy: No dysplasia, no carcinoma. (II—I)

Clinical History
The patient is an year-old man with bladder cancer.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A-C are received fresh. Parts D-I are received In formalin.

Part A, labeled "right ureter," consists of a single, soft, unoriented ring of red tissue (0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2

cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in
cassette A1. '

Part 8, labeled "left ureter," consists of a single, soft, unoriented right of red-pink tissue (0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2

cm). The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in
cassette 81.

Part C is additionally labeled “bladder and prostate." The specimen consists of a wstoprostatectomy
weighing 498 gm and measuring 21 cm right to left, 11 cm anterior to posterior, and 4 cm superior to
inferior. The right superior, anterior and lateral wall of the bladder contain a 3.5 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm, ﬁrm,
white, irregular mass. 0n the surface the mass is ulcerated. The mass invades 2.4 cm deep through
the muscularis propria and touches the perivesicular fat. The mass is grossly 0.2 cm from the
perivesicular margin. The mass is 8 cm from the trigone. The remaining bladder mucosa is tan-white
and unremarkable. The attached prostate measures 3.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm and contains unremarkable
white-tan, whorled parenchyma with no distinct masses. The attached seminal vesicles measure 3 x 2.5

x 1.0 cm each and are both grossly unremarkable. The perivesicular fat is thorOughly searched for
lymph nodes, and none are found.

ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks.

INTRAOPERATIVE EVALUATION: Frozen section, urethral margin F53, cassette C1.
INKING:

- Anterior right surface: Green.

— Anterior left surface: Blue.

- Posterior: Black.

GROSS PHOTOGRAPHS: Yes.

CASSElTEs: Cassettes are submitted as follows:

C1: F53 urethral margin frozen section remnant.
C2: Ureter margins.
C3: Distal prostatic urethra.

C4-C5:Bladder neck and trigone.

~ mews

 

C6-C8:Representative sections showing deepest invasion by mass in right superior-anterior and right
lateral walls.

C9: Representative section of mass transitioning to normal.
C10: Representative section of bladder dome.

C11: Representative section of right inferior bladder wall.

C12: Representative section of posterior-inferior bladder wall.
C13: Representative section of left anterior-superior bladder wall.
C14: Representative section of left anterior-inferior bladder wall.
C15: Prostate, right apex.

C16: Prostate, right mid.

C17: Prostate, right base.

C18: Prostate, right seminal vesicle.

C19: Prostate, left apex.

C20: Prostate, left mid.

C21: Prostate, left base.

C22: Prostate, left seminal vesicle.

Part D, additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of multiple pieces of irregular, unoriented,
yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (8 x 7 x 1.5 cm in aggregate) that contain fourteen uniformly tan-yellow soft
lymph node candidates (2.8 cm-0.7 cm). The cut surfaces of the lymph node candidates appear

homogeneous pink~tan and smooth. All lymph node candidates and representative sections of the
ﬁbrofatty tissue are submitted as follows:

Cassette DI: Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.

Cassette DZ: Second-largest lymph node candidate, bisected.

Cassette DB: Third- and fourth-largest lymph node candidates, inked and bisected.
Cassettes D4-D6: Ten intact smaller lymph node candidates.

Cassette D7: Fibrofatty tissue. ,

Part E, additionally labeled “right external iliac lymph nodes,“ consists of a piece of irregular,
unoriented, yellow‘tan ﬁbrofatty tissue (6.5 x 5 x 1.2 cm) that contains four, unlforrnly tan-yellow, soft
lymph node candidates (1.3 cm-0.6 cm). The cut surface of the largest lymph node candidate appears

homogeneously pink-tan and smooth. All lymph node candidates and representative sections of the
fibrofatty tissue are submitted as follows:

Cassette E1: Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette 22: Three Intact smaller lymph node candidates.
Cassette E3: Fibrofatty tissue.

Part F, additionally labeled "right obturator lymph nodes,” consists of multiple pieces of irregular,
unoriented, yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty tissue (4.5 x 3 x 1 cm in aggregate) that contain four uniformly
yellow-tan lymph node candidates (2.5 cm-0.6 cm). The cut surface of the largest lymph node
candidate appears homogenous light tan and smooth. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassettes F1—F2: Largest lymph node candidate, bisected.

Cassette F3: Three intact smaller lymph node candidates.

Cassette F4: Fibrofatty tissue.

Part G, additionally labeled "right lntemai iliac lymph nodes,“ consists of multiple pieces of irregular
unoriented yellow-tan fibrofatty tissue (2.5 x 2 x 0.8 cm in aggregate) that contain one yellow-tan
lymph node candidate (1.4 cm in greatest dimension). The entire specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassette Gl: Lymph node candidate, bisected.

Cassette G2: Fibrofatty tissue.

Part H, additionally labeled ”ﬁnal ieit ureter,“ consists of an unoriented, white-tan tubular segment (1
cm length x 0.7 cm diameter x 0.1 cm wall thickness) with a suture and a metal clip at one end. The
serosal surface is smooth and unremarkable. The lumen is patent, without contents. The mucosa is
smooth, without discrete lesion. The end with the suture ls inked blue. The specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette H1, after removal of the metal clip.

Part I, additionally labeled "ﬁnal right ureter," consists of an unoriented, white-tan tubular segment (0.9

w Page4of5

 

 

cm length x 0.7 cm diameter x 0.1 cm wall thickness) with a suture and a metal clip at one end. The

serosai surface is smooth, without lesion. The mucosa is smooth and unremarkable. The lumen is

patent, without contents. The end with the suture is inked black. The specimen is trlsected and entirely
submitted in cassette 11, after removal of the metal clip.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

_athologist

Electronically signed out o

 

 

Page 5 of S

