 

-WAW

Patient Results

« - IM ﬁl

 

 

 

 

 

 

W 777 , Surgical Pathology (Copath) g3 Film
Path Report Final

SURGICAL PATHOLOG REPORT

ACCESSION no. *

Final Diagnosis(es):

(A) Falciform ligament, excision:

1) Vascularized ﬁbroadipose tissue, consistent with

falciform ligament.

2) Negative for malignancy.

(B) Omental mass, biopsy: One lymph node, positive for
metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

(C) Omentum, excision: Positive for metastatic carcinoma.
(D) Mesenteric mass, excision: One lymph node, positive for
metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

(E) Lymph nodes, pyloric, excision: Two lymph nodes, negative
for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

(F) Distal stomach, excision:

1) Invasive adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated.

2) Tumor size: 7.2 x 3.5 x 0.5 cm.

3) The proximal and distal surgical margins are uninvolved
by carcinoma.

4) The radial(omental) margin is positive for involvement by
carcinoma.

5) Eight of sixteen lymph nodes are positive for metastatic
carcinoma (8/16).

6) Two tumor implants are identified.

7) Pathologic staging: pT4a N3a.

8) Pleas see Synoptic report below for a complete summary.
Synoptic Report:

Specimen: Portion of stomach, gastric antrum.

Procedure: Partial gastrectomy, distal.

Tumor Site: Antrum.

Tumor Size:

Greatest Dimension: 7.2 cm.

Additional Dimensions: 3.5 x 0.5 cm.

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, diffuse type.

Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated.

Microscopic Extent of Tumor: Tumor penetrates serosa (visceral
peritoneum).

Margins:

Proximal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

Omental (Radial) Margins:

Lesser omental margin involved by invasive carcinoma.
Greater omental margin involved by invasive carcinoma.
Treatment Effect: Not known.

Lymphvascular Invasion: Not identified.

Perineural invasion: Present.

 

Printed from: Default

Pave: l nfﬁ

 

 

 

 

_CLINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

- Surgical Pathology (Copath)

Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT4a: Tumor invades serosa (visceral
peritoneum).
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN3a: Metastasis in 7 to 15
pen’gastric lymph nodes.
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 20
Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 10
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable.
' ' al Pathologic Findings: Dysplasia.

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

' The gross description and all microscopic slides have been

reviewed and inteﬁreted by the undersigned pathologist'
Electronicall Si ned —
ﬂatten

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Falciforrn ligament

B: Omental mass

C: Omentum

D: Mesenteric mass

E: Pylorio LN

F: Distal stomach

Clinical History:

Gastric cancer. GI spore.

(F) Short distal, long proximal, GI spore.

-

Gross Description:

(A) (falciforrn ligament) Received in formalin is a 5.5 x 4.5 x
1.6 cm aggregate of dull tan-red to yellow lobular fibroadipose
tissue. Sections show a core of solid gray—white tissue
measuring 4.8 cm in length and 0.1 cm in diameter, surrounded by
extravasation within the adjacent fatty tissue. The entire cord
is submitted in A1—A2.

(B) (omental mass) Received in formalin is a strip of
gray—pink dense glistening tissue that measures 0.3 cm in
greatest dimension. It is wrapped and submitted entirely in B1.
(C) (omentum) Received in formalin is a strip of finely
lobular pale tan-yellow to red-purple vascularized omentum that
measures 9.8 x 9.5 x 3.5 cm. There are focal areas of
retraction. Sectioning reveals solid gray—white nodules ranging
from 0.1 to 0 .5 cm in greatest dimension. All grossly
identifiable nodules are submitted in C1.

(D) (mesenteric mass) Received in formalin is a 0.2 cm firm
gray—red nodule that is within finely lobular yellow mesenteric
fatty tissue that measures 1.7 x 1.3 x 0.3 cm. It is entirely
submitted intact in D1.

(E) (pyloric lymph node) Received in formalin is a tan—red
rubbery to firm lymph node measuring 0.5 cm in greatest

 

 

Printed from: Default

Paar" 7 nf‘

 

 

_LINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

_ t M

_ Surgical Pathology (Copath) «3

dimension. it is submitted entirely intact in E1.

(F) (distal stomach) Received fresh and subsequently placed in
fixative following GI Spore Study sampling, is the antrum and
pylorus up to first segment of duodenum with attached
gastro—omentai fat that measures 15.5 cm long the greater
curvature, 9.0 cm along the lesser curvature, and 4.0 cm
anterior to posterior. The duodenal margin is 4.0 cm in
diameter and the gastric margin is 10.0 cm long. Along the
anterior aspect of the stomach, there is extensive retraction

that extends up to the gastro—omental margin and to the
posterior aspect, covering a 12.0 x 6.5 cm area. Embedded
nodules are present within the free gastro-omental fat that are
hard, irregular and gray-white and measure up to 0.5 cm in
greatest dimension. Centered 5.0 cm from the gastric margin and
5.5 cm from the pyloric sphincter is an endophytic centrally
ulcerated mass with irregular and scalloped borders having
maximum dimensions of 7.2 x 3.5 cm and up to 0.5 cm thick. The
tumor is at least 8.0 cm from the distal and margin and appears
to be 1.3 cm from the proximal gastric margin with transmurai
invasion causing adhesion of the gastro—omentai fat. The
remaining gastric mucosa is tan with normal rugae and no
additional lesions. Dissection of the gastro-omental fat yields
12 solid firm gray-white to pink lymph nodes measuring from 0.4
to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. Sections are submitted as
follows:

F1-F2 - gastric margin

F3 - two representative longitudinal sections of tumor in

closest approximation to gastric margin less the

margin

F4-F5 - tumor at greatest depth of invasion

F6 - interface of distal aspect of tumor to normal gastric

mucosa

F7 - full—length longitudinal section between tumor and duodenal
margin

F8 — duodenal margin

F9 - six lymph nodes, intact

F10 - four lymph nodes, intact

F11 - one lymph node, serially sectioned

F12 - one lymph node, serially sectioned

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fina

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. -

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of lH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

 

Printed from: Default

Ptlrrp‘ 1 nf I:

 

 

 

_CLINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

 

 

 

F—
kl

 

 

 

I:

— Surgical Pathology (Copath)

Histo atholo Laborato in the 77
They have not been cleared by the US

Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These
tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical
care. in cases where Immunohistochemistry testing is performed,
the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used
to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(3iG7), ER(SP1),
PR(1E2), Her2neu(485), CD117(Poly), CD20(L26).
Unless othenivise stated in the report, all tissue tested for
ERPR by IHC, Her2 by IHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as

er ANP.22998 for a minimum of - and a maximum of.

ER, PR, Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-2/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining In any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

Final,

 

Printed from: Default

Pam» A of 5

 

