 

TOG-A $005

 

 

final Parity/091! ﬂiayliosis

' ' ‘ ' ' Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

Final Pathologic Diagnosis
CORRECTED REPORT

A) RIGHT DISTAL MENTAL NERVE (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

B) LEFT DISTAL MENTAL NERVE (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

C) ANTERIOR MENTAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

D) COMPOSITE RESECTION FLOOR OF MOUTH (BIOPSY):
- Invasive squamous ceiE carcinoma, moderately differentiated,
keratinizing type.

E) RIGHT LATERAL MANDIBLE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

F) COMPOSITE RESECTION FLOOR OF MOUTH (MANDIBULECTOMY):
- Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated,
keratinizing type (see synoptic report).

- Metastatic carcinoma involving one of eight lymph nodes (1/8). . _

G) SUPER HYOID MUSCLE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

H) ANTERIOR VENTRICLE TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

Page: 1 of 11

”3170!!

 

 

  
 

 

  
 

Patient Name: ' --i:.-..5-I:3. --.-'::' -.
MRN:
DOB: ex: Male

Account Number:
Visit Date:
Discharge date:
Patient Type:
Location:
Attending Physician:

  
   
  

 

filial Fﬂlﬂﬁlﬂyy ﬂiagnasis ﬂﬂﬂﬂfl

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

I) LEFT LATERAL VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

 

J) RIGHT LATERAL VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

K) RIGHT POSTERIOR FLOOR OF MOUTH MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

L) LEFT POSTERIOR FLOOR OF MOUTH MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

M) ANTERIOR DEEP VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

N) MIDDLE DEEP VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

0) POSTERIOR DEEP VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

 

P) RIGHT POSTERIOR LINGUAL GINGIVAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma.

Q) LEFT POSTERIOR LINGUAL GINGIVAL MARGIN (BIOPSY): l
- Negative for carcinoma. l

R) LEFT POSTERIOR BUCCAL GINGIVAL MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for carcinoma. I

S) RIGHT POSTERIOR BUCCAL GINGIVAL MARGIN (BIOPSY): I
- Negative for carcinoma. i

Page: 2 of 11

 

 

 

final Patﬂalagyﬂia-yliasisﬂat/arr

Accession Number: Senior Pathologist: Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

T) RIGHT SUBMANDiBULAR GLAND (BIOPSY):
- Benign mixed salivary gland.
- Negative for malignancy.

U) RIGHT LEVEL 4 (NECK DISSECTION):
- Fourteen benign lymph nodes (0/14).
- Negative for malignancy.

V) RIGHT LEVEL 3 (NECK DISSECTION):
—- Seven benign lymph nodes (0/7).
- Negative for malignancy.

W) RIGHT LEVEL 2 (NECK DISSECTION):
- Ten benign lymph nodes (0/10).
- Negative for malignancy.

X) LEFT LEVEL 2 (BIOPSY):
- Seven benign lymph nodes (0/7).
- Negative for malignancy.

Y) LEFT LEVEL 3 (NECK DISSECTION):
- Three benign lymph nodes (0/3).
- Negative for malignancy.

Z) LEFT LEVEL 4 (NECK DISSECTION):
- Fifteen benign lymph nodes (0/15).
- Negative for malignancy.

NOTE: This corrected report is being issued to correctly identify the attending pathologist responsible for reading

Page: 3 of 11

 

 

 

final Pat/1010a! Iliagnasis Report

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
— ﬂ R......dm..,m.

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

each frozen section diagnosis. The initial diagnosis rendered by_emains unchanged.

I attest I have personally reviewed the specimen/slides and agree with the above ﬁndings.

 

 

Resident:—

Synoptic Report
F: Lip and Oral Cavity
SPECIMEN (Select all that apply):
Ventral surface of tongue, not otherwise specified (NOS)
Lower gingiva (gum)
Anterior floor of mouth
Mandible
RECEIVED:
Fresh
PROCEDURE (Select all that apply):
Resection
Mandibulectomy (specify): Partiai
Neck (lymph node) dissection (specify): Bilateral Radical
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY:
Intact
SPECIMEN SIZE:
Greatest dimensions: 11.5 cm
Additional dimensions (if more than one part): 10.0 x 6.0 cm
SPECIMEN LATERALITY:
Midline
TUMOR SITE (Select all that apply):
Ventraf surface of tongue, not otherwise specified (NOS)
Lower gingiva (gum)
Anterior floor of mouth
TUMOR FOCALITY:

Page: 4 of 11

 

 

 

final Pathology diagnosis Report

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/1‘ ime:
— R....-...D...m....

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Single focus
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatestdimensions: 5.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 3.3 x 1.? cm
TUMOR THICKNESS (th AND pT2 Tumors):
. Tumor thickness: 1? mm
TUMOR DESCREPTION (Select all that apply):
Gross subtype
Exophytic
MACROSCOPIC EXTENT OF TUMOR:
Specify: Exophytic mass identified at the floor of mouth ( 5.0 x 3.3 x 1.0 cm) which extends from the ventral aspect
of the tongue to the anterior surface of the gums.
HISTOLOGIC TYPE (Select all that apply):
Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
(32: Moderately differentiated
MARGINS (Select all that appty):
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 2 to 3 mm
Specify margin(s), per orientation, if possible: Blue - right posterior lateral soft tissue resection margin; Green -
left posterior soft tissue resection margin;
TREATMENT EFFECT:
Not identified
LYMPH-VASCULAR iNVASION:
. Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Not identified
LYMPH NODES, EXTRANODAL EXTENSION:
Present
PATHOLOGEC STAGING (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors (select all that apply)
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT)
pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN)
pN‘l: Metastasis in a singie ipsiiateral lymph node, 3 cm or toes in greatest dimension
Specify: Number examined: 64
Number involved: 1
DISTANT METASTASIS

Not Aiiiicable

Page: 5 of 11

 

 

 

'. Fin-a] Patna/09y. ﬂiayiiasis Report

Accession Number: Senior Pathologist: Collected Date/Time:
Received Datei’Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGiC FlNDiNGS (Select all that apply):
None identified

lntraoperative Diagnosis

FS A1: Negative for tumor.
F5 81: Negative for tumor.
FS C1: Negative for tumor.

!! !!: legallve for malignancy.

FS G1: Negative 1l‘or malignancy.
FS H1: Negative.
FS t1: Negative.
FS J1: Negative.
FS K1: Negative.
FS L1: Negative.
FS M1: Negative.
FS N1: Negative.
FS 01: Negative.
FS P1: Negative.
FS Q1: Negative.
FS R1: Negative.
FS 81: Negative.

' Clinical History
Not provided.

PrelPost-operative Diagnosis
Squamous cell carcinoma mandible.

Gross Anatomic Description

(Dictated by
—

Page: 6 of 11

 

 

 

 

filial P3111010!!! ﬂiayrinsis Renoir!

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected DatefTirne:
Veriﬁed DatefTime:

Specimens received in twenty-six containers.

S ecimen A: Desi nated "right distal mental nerve" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis onﬂabeled with the patient’s name and "right distal mental nerve". Specimen consists of a single piece of

reditan, soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.
Section code: A1 — frozen section control.

5 ecimen B: Desi nated "left distal mental nerve" is received fresh for intraoperaiive consultation and frozen section
Wabeled with the patient's name and "left distal mental nerve". Specimen consists of a single piece of
tanfred, soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: Bi — frozen section control.

8 ecimerl C: Desi nated "anterior mental margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis onﬂlabeied with the patient’s name and "anterior mentai margin". Specimen consists of three pieces of red,
soft tissue measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: Ci — frozen section control.

 

Specimen D: Designated "composite resection floor of mouth" is received fresh for Tumor Bank on - labeled with the
patient’s name and “composite resection fioor of mouth". Specimen consists of a single piece of tan, soft tissue measuring 1.8
x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. A representative portion is submitted to Tumor Bank.

Section code: Di — remainder of specimen.

S ecimen E: Desi hated "right lateral mandible margin" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen section
diagnosis onﬂbeled with the patient’s name and "right lateral mandible margin". Specimen consists of a single
piece of bone and marrow measuring 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. The bone marrow portion is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: E1 — frozen section control; E2 — remainder of specimen after decalcification.

Specimen F: Designated "composite resection floor of mouth" is received fresh for Tumor Bank on- labeled with the
patients name and "composite resection floor of mouth". Specimen consists of one mandibuleCtomy specimen measuring
11.5 x 10.0 x 6.0 cm and weighing 179.8 g in total. The portion of mandible measures 11.0 cm in length, 3.0 cm in height and
1.7 cm in thickness. Eleven teeth are identified intact. One detached tooth Is Identified. There is a light tan, fungating.
exophytic mass identified at the floor of mouth which measures 5.0 x 3.3 x 1.0 cm and extends from the ventral aspect of the _
tongue to the anterior surface of the gums. The mass comes within 0.2 cm of the closest posterior mucosai resection margins
located at the left and right lateral-posterior aspect. Cut surface of the mandible at midline reveais an area suspicious for
invasion measuring 0.5 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified, primarily at the inferior aspect of the specimen. Gross
photographs are taken.

Inking code: Red — right mandible resection margin; Yellow — left mandible resection margin; Blue — right posterior soft tissue
resection margin; Green — left posterior soft tissue resection margin; Orange — right anterior soft tissue resection margin; Black
— left anterior soft tissue resection margin.

Page: 7 of 11

 

 

 

Fioal Foloologg ﬂiogoosio ﬂooorl

' ' ' ' ' Collected Datcf'Fimc:
Received Datef’i‘ime:
Veriﬁed Datef'l‘ime:

Section code: F1 — tumor with closest mucosal resection margin, left posterior lateral; F2 — tumor with closest mucosal
resection margin, right posterior lateral; F3 — anterior portion of tumor with gums and resection margin including one tooth,
after decaicification; F4 — posterior ventral tongue resection margin; F5 — right mandible resection margin, en face, after
decalcification: F6 — left mandible resection margin, en face, after decalclfication; F7—F8 — representative section including full
thickness anterior medial portion of mandible with possible tumor invasion invading bone (after decalcificatlon for F7),
bisected; F9 — three suspected lymph nodes, wholly submitted; F10—F11 — one suspected lymph node with suspected
metastasis, bisected; F12 — one suspected lymph node, bisected; F13 — one suspected lymph node, bisected; F14—F15 — one
suspected lymph node, bisected; F16 — one suspected lymph node, bisected; F17 — posterior ventral tongue; F18-F19 —
additional representative full thickness sections: F20-F21 — additional right mandible resection margin, en face.

Wted "suprahyoid muscle margin" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen section
diagnosis 0 labeled with the patient's name and “suprahyoid muscle margin". Specimen consists of multiple pieces
of red, soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.

Section code: G1 _ frozen section control.

 

Specimen H: Designated "anterior ventral tongue margin" is received fresh for lntraoperaiive consultation and frozen section
diagnosis on —abeled with the patient's name and "anterior ventral tongue margin“. Specimen consists of three
pieces of red, soft tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.
Section code: H1 —- frozen section control.

S ecimen l: Desi hated "left lateral ventral tongue margin" is received fresh for lntraoperative consultation and frozen section
diagnosis oiabeled with the patient’s name and "left lateral ventral tongue margin". Specimen consists of one

piece of pink/tan, soft tissue measuring 4.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.
Section code: l1 — frozen section control.

Specimen J: Designated "ri ht lateral ventral tongue margin“ is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on ‘abeled with the patient’s name and "right lateral ventral tongue margin". Specimen consists of

two pieces of pink/tan, soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.
Section code: J1 ._ frozen section control.

Specimen K: Designated "ri ht posterior floor of mouth margin" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on debated with the patient's name and "right posterior floor of mouth margin". Specimen consists
of one piece of pink/tan, soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen sectiOn.

Section code: K1 — frozen section control.

section diagnosis on abeied with the patient's name and "left posterior floor of mouth margin“. Specimen consists of
one piece of pink/tan, so t tissue measuring 2.0 X 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The entire Specimen is submitted for frozen section.
Section code: Ll — frozen section control.

Page: 8 of 11

Specimen L: Designated "left lposterior floor of mouth margin" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen

 

 

 

‘fillﬂl Pat/talc!!! Diagnosis'ﬁa'nort

 

m 1" Senior Patholo ist: Collected Datei’Time:
Received DatefTimc:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Specimen M: Designated ”anterior deep ventral tongue margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on labeled with the patient’s name and "anterior deep ventral tongue margin“. Specimen Consists
of two pieces of pink an, so issue measuring 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen
section.

Section code: M1 —— frozen section control.

Specimen N: Designated "middle deep ventral tongue margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on labeled with the patient’s name and "middle deep ventral tongue margin“. Specimen consists of
one piece of pink/tan, so issue measuring 1.4 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: N1 — frozen section control.

Specimen 0: Designated ” osterior deep ventral tongue margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on ﬂabeled with the patient’s name and "posterior deep ventral tongue margin“. Specimen consists
of one piece of red, soft tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: 01 — frozen section control.

Specimen P: Desig " ' posterior lingual gingival margin" is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on beled with the patient‘s name and "right posterior lingual gingival margin". Specimen consists

of one piece of red, so issue measuring 1.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.
Section code: Pt — frozen section control.

Specimen Q: Desigﬂposterior lingual gingival margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on abeled with the patient‘s name and "left posterior lingual gingival margin". Specimen consists
of one piece of pink, soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: Q1 ~frozen section control.

Specimen R: Designated "left osterior buccal gingival margin“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on _Ir:ibeied with the patient's name and "left posterior buccal gingival margin". Specimen consists
of one piece of red, soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section.

Section code: R1 — frozen section control.

Specimen S: Desig " ' t posterior buccal gingival margin” is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen
section diagnosis on labeled with the patient's name and "right posterior buccal gingival margin“. Specimen consists
of two pieces of red, soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen
section.

Section code: 81 — frozen section control.

Page: 9 of 11

 

 

 

 

'Firral Fairlie/0y! ﬂiayﬂasis Report

Accession Number: Senior Pathclo ist: Collected Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Datef'l‘ime:

Specimen T: Designated "right submandibular gland" is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "right
submandibular gland“. Specimen consists of a single, pink/tan, lobulated and smooth fragment of soft tissue measuring 5.2 x
3.5 x 2.0 cm and weighing 12.? 9. Cut surface is pink/tan with a lobulated appearance. No distinct lesions or masses are
identified.

Inking code: Green — external surface.

Section code: T1 —T3 — representative sections.

 

Specimen U: Designated ”right level 4” is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right level 4“. Specimen
consists of a single pink/tan fragment of soft tissue measuring 7.7 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm.

Section code: U1 — seven suspected lymph nodes, submitted wholly; U2 - representatlve section; U3 ~ four suspected lymph
nodes, submitted wholly; U4 n representative section.

Specimen V: Designated "right level 3" is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right level 3“. Specimen
consists of multiple pink/tan fragments of soft tissue measuring 4.7 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Multiple lymph nodes are

palpated.
Section code: V1-V2 — multiple suspected lymph nodes; V3-V5 ~ remainder of specimen.

Specimen W: Designated "right level 2" is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right level 2“. Specimen
consists of a single pinkltan fragment of soft tissue measuring 4.3 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified.
Section code: W1 — multiple suspected lymph nodes; W2—W3 — representative sections; W4—W5 _ one suspected lymph node,
bisected.

Specimen X: Designated "left level 2“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and ”left level 2". Specimen
consists of a single fragment of pinkltan soft tissue measuring 5.3 x 2.6 x 1.3 cm.
Section code: Xf—XS ~— representative sections; X4-X5 - one suspected lymph node, bisected.

Specimen Y: Designated ”left level 3“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left level 3". Specimen
consists of a single fragment of pink/tan soft tissue measuring 4.8 x 2.8 x 1.7 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are palpated.
Section code: Y1 — one suspected lymph node, bisected; Y2 ~ one suspected lymph node; Y3—Y5 — remainder of specimen.
Specimen Z: Designated "left level 4“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "left level 4". Specimen

consists of a single fragment of pinldtan soft tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified.
Section code: Zi-Z2 — multiple suspected lymph nodes; 23—25 — remainder of specimen.

Page: 10 of 11

 

 

 

Intraaparativa Riesling-sis ﬂaﬂarr

‘ - ' ' - Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/Time:

Veriﬁed Date/"Time:

 

lntraoperative Diagnosis

. e for tumor.
FS B1: Negative for tumor.
FS (31: Negative for tumor.

FS E1: Negative for malignancy.
FS G1: Negative for malignancy.
FS H1: Negative.

FS l1: Negative.

FS J1: Negative.

FS K1: Negative.

FS L1: Negative.

FS M1: Negative.

FS N1: Negative.

FS 01: Negative.

FS P1: Negative.

FS Q1: Negative.

FS R1: Negative.

FS 51: Negative.

Page: 11 of 11

 

