UUID: 70585F33-C89E-4365-9CA2-E3843E0162DDd
TCGA- HC- A531- 01A- PR

Ill lllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllll lll llllllll l llllllllml III PM”: ll llllllllllllulllmill“:e llllll mad

I
IIHIIIIIHIHIIIHII ll Ill || |||||||||||||||||||||||||||
Report forW

TEST: Surgical Pathology

Collected Date & Time: m

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology 11 n r
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ‘D O 3

. W N63 3’40/8
Patient Name: .» .
3:331:22}? :: r W/W 8/40/5

Billing Type:

Location' \SJ/t—l W/W’Gak Ho‘s ab/q

DOB: (Age:

Service: m (:90) 51/0/13

Gender: M

Billing M

Taken _ Received Re orted:
Physiciane) WIN-W3

Specimen(s) Received

A: Right external iliac and obturator lymph nodes
B: Prostate

Pathologic Diagnosis

Lymph nodes, right external iliac and Obturator, excision (A):
— 2 lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2).
Prostate, excision (B):
- Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 4+5=9.
— High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.
Note: The prostatic adenocarcinoma is centered in the right lobe
of the prostate and demonstrates a majority of Gleason 4 pattern
with a secondary Gleason 5 pattern. Fooally, the right posterior
lateral margin of the prostate is involved by adenooarcinoma.
Along the posterior and posterolateral margins on the right side,
the tumor is present within a fraction of a millimeter of the
inked margin Of excision.
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST: PROSTATE GLAND,
RADICAL PROSTATECTOMY
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy
Prostate Size:

Weight: 34 9

Size: 4.0 x 3.5 x 3.3 cm
Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph node dissection
Histologio Type: Adenocarcinoma, acinar, NOS
Histologic Grade/Gleason Pattern:

Primary Pattern: Grade 4

Secondary Pattern: Grade 5

Tertiary Pattern: Grade 3

Total Gleason Score: 4+5=9
Tumor Quantitation:

Proportion of prostate involved by tumor: Approximately 40%
Extraproetatic Extension: Not identified
Seminal Vesicle Invasion: Not identified
Margins: Margins involved by invasive carcinoma, unifocal, right
posterolateral

Page 2 Of 3

Treatment Effect on Carcinoma:‘ Not identified
Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Perineural Invasion: Present
Pathologic staging:
Primary Tumor: pTZc
Regional lymph nodes: pN0 .
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant metastasis: Not applicable .
NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the Operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution's Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage
' based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
ls d not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is
and oesom onent to be considered in determining the clinical
only aaid Should not be confused with nor substituted for it.
:EZg:xact operative procedure is available in the surgeon's
operative report:
Primarv Patholongt=

a Electronically Signed Out by: W

'nical History . . . . _ I
giostate cancer, additional information 15 prOVided.
Intraoperative Consultation

A Right external iliac Obturator lymph nodes;
lymph nodes. (microscopic evaluation)
Ph.D.

Four benign

Gross Description

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "right external
iliac obturator lymph nodes" is a 6.0 x 5.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of
fat. There are four lymph nodes dissected out, ranging from 0.7
to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are submitted
ziFgoElsz'cm lymph node inked black and bisected.

AZFS — three lymph nodes (one orange, one yellow, one blue).

B. Received in formalin labeled "prostate" is a 34 g, 4.0 cm
from left to right, 3.3 cm from anterior to posterior, 3.0 cm
from apex to bladder neck margin prostatectomy specimen With
attached right seminal veSicle (4.0 x 1:4 x 0.3 cm), right vas
deferens (3,2 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm), left seminal veSicle (3.2 x 1.7 x
0.6 cm), left vas deferens (3.0 X 0.5 x 0.4 cm). The prostate is
inked as follows: right prostate is inked blue, left prostate is
inked black, and bladder neck margin is inked yellow.

The prostate is serially sectioned from apex to bladder neck
margin to reveal a 2.2 cm in greatest dimenSion firm white-tan
lesion located in the right anterior and right posterior prostate
that extends from apex to bladder neck margin.
grossly approaches the apes margin.
nodules or masses grossly identified.
submitted in cassettes B1 through B20.
follows: .

Bl, BZ , right apex perpendicularly cut.
33' 34 — left apex perpendicularly cut. .
BS, B6 _ right bladder neck margin perpendicularly cut.

B7, B8 - left bladder neck margin perpendicularly cut.

B9 _ right seminal veSicle insertion point and cross—section

The lesion
There are no other discrete
85% of the specimen is
Sections are submitted as

Page 3 of 3

through right seminal vesicle and vas deferens.

310 _ left seminal vesicle insertion point and crOSSesection
through left seminal vesicle and vas deferenS.

Bll - right anterior prostate.

312-315 _ right posterior prostate from apex to bladder neck
margin.

816 — left anterior prostate.

317-320 _ left posterior prostate from apex to bladder neck

mariin.
Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic
findings of this case.
Interpretation performed at

 
  
   

  

If immunohistoc emistry or in situ hybridization was used the

following applies: This test was developed and its perfor ance
characteristic determined by . It
has not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food a r

Administration (FDA). The FDA does not require this test to go
through premarket FDA review. This test is used for clinical
purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing. All special stains
used have adequate controls.

Cvilcrh

Tumanlte

HIDM

case

 

