Page 1 of3

 

UUID:AEA78889-BBC2-4S7C-B§24-87C193685C03
TCGA-GB-AAVS-OlA-PR R

edacted
Illllll||llllllll||||||lllllllllllllIlllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll

 

 

IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll
Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllglllll

 

 

CONHDENﬂAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Time Collected V Time Received
Time Reported - Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider ‘
Status Final Relevant Information
Location
Copied To
Report Patient Name
Demographics (for ‘
veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Birth:
Sex: F
‘ IE? v0.23 ]
, i . . i ‘1 Lﬂ.§V3%3’33
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 0‘3"“ ’Wm,JWE . WW
*****Surgical Pathology Report'rﬂﬂ bﬂ i. ‘9ny 052.3? CD

Accession Number _ r .

Collected Date/Time I ' ‘ WC) ﬁ/QDi/L’

Received Date/Time .

Pathologist

Specimen Description

A: Gallbladder at

B: Group 8 lymph nous at

C: Group 12 lymph node at

D: Left and right liver at '

E: Re-excision posterior margin caudate lobe at
Clinical Information

Hepatocellular Ca

 

Diagnosis
A. Gallbladder, Resection:
- Cholesterolosis
B. Lymph Node (Group 8), Resection:
— One lymph node, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/1)
C. Lymph node (Group 2), Resection:
- One lymph node, negative for malignancy 0/1)
D. Liver (left and right lobes), partial hepatectomy:
- Hepatocellular carcinoma, grade 3/4 (size 15cm)
- Multiple foci. Second focus 1.0 cm (D12)
- Lymphovascular invasion present in small vessels near the portal
triads. No large vessel invasion identified.
- Vascular margins negative for tumor
— Background liver with chronic nonspecific portal inflammation
— No evidence of cirrhosis
-Present at inked and cauterized hepatic edge
E. Caudate lobe, posterior margin, reexciaion:
- Hepatocellular carcinoma present at edge of specimen towards
previous excision. New cauterized margin free of tumor.

Tumor also present in small lymphvascular spaces. No large vessel
involvement.

Reported by:.
Electronically signed by:
Verified: ‘
Responsmle Resident:
Synoptic Report
Specimen:

Liver

Gallbladder

ng2of3

PROCEDURE:

Partial hepatectomy

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 15 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY:

Multiple (specify location): Multiple present

HISTOLOGIC TXPE:

Minor component of clear cell and multinucleated cell growth patterns noted in the
hepatocellular caricnoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

GIII: Poorly differentiated

TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply):

Tumor confined to liver

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):

pT3: Multiple tumors more than 5 cm or tumor involving a major branch of the portal or
hepatic veinis)

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

DISTANT METASTASIS (9M):

pr: Cannot be assessed

*VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V):

*Absent

Gross Description

Received are specimen containers A to R All recuisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the patient's name, . The cassettes and identifiers are
labelled with the Surgical Number

A: Received an intact gallbladder 7.4 x 2 x 0.8 cm. The serosal surface is smooth. On
opening, it contains approximately 1 ml of thick green bile. No gallstones are
identified. The mucosal surface shows cholesterolosis. The average thickness of the wall
is 0.2 cm. Cystic duct lymph node is not identified. Representative sections are
submitted in one block.

B: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated group 8 lymph node. The
specimen consists of a portion of yellow grey soft tissue, possibly lymph node, 2.7 x 1.1
x 0.2 cm. It is trisected and submitted in toto in one cassette.

C: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated group 12 lymph node. The
specimen consists of one portion of yellow tan fibrofatty tissue, 3.4 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm.
This fibrofatty tissue contains a single possible lymph node, 2.7 cm in maximum
dimension. The lymph node is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette.

D: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated left and right liver. The
specimen consists of a portion of liver 721 g and 17.5 x 17.5 x 6.5 cm. The resection
margin (non peritonealized surface) is painted blue. A necrotic region is identified at
the hilum which is painted orange and a possible portal vein margin is painted yellow. On
sectioning. a tan irregular mass is identified, 11.3 cm from superior to inferior x 6 cm
from anterior to posterior and 15 cm from medial to lateral, almost replacing the liver
parenchyma. On sectioning, this mass has a variegated appearance with multiple areas of
hemorrhage, necrosis and bright yellow color areas. This mass closely appease the
capsular surface of the liver and in some areas, seems to be grossly invading into the
capsule. A solid, tan nodule, 1 cm in maximum dimension is seen separately at a distance
of 1 cm from the primary tumor. The residual liver parenchyma appears normal without any
gross changes suggestive of cirrhosis.

Sections are submitted as follows:

D1. resection margin of the possible portal vein

D2/3. representative sections of the mass to show its closest relationship with
the liver capsule

D4. representative section of the tumor mass to show its relationship with the
closest

resection margin

D5-11. representative sections of the tumor mass

D12. representative section of the tan nodule away from the tumor mass

D13. section of the tumor mass to show its relationship with the normal liver
parenchyma

E: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated re-excision posterior margin
caudate lobe. The specimen consists of one portion of red brown liver tissue, 6.5 x 5 x

0.9 cm. A stapled resection margin is identified, 2 cm in maximum length. The surface is
painted blue. 0n sectioning, tumor masses are not identified grossly. Four representative
sections are submitted in E1-4.

Microscopic Description

Minor clear cell and multinucleated cell growth patterns are noted in the hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Pathologist Comment

Page 3 of 3

Note in specimen E blue ink has run onto the surface towards the previous excision and

does not represent a true margin. Fibrin and clot is present on this surface and helps
separate it from the new true margin.

Best tumor block = D2
Normal = E1

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Locatlon

 

