ﬂ Peale”

Site Controls:

   

<Select>

 

 

Paﬂenh

E)- CM Transcription _. E)

Back to List

 
 

TEST: Surgic
Date & Time
REPORT STATUS: Final
FACILI
Patient:

  
    
    

Surgical Pathoiogy SURGICAL P
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

   
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 

Patient Name:
Accession #
Med. Rec. #:
Billing Type:

Locati '
Serv . Urgery

Gender: F
Received — Reported:-

  
 

Physician(s):
Specimen(s) Received

Lung wedge left lower lobe
Lymph node level 2

Lung left upper lobe
Level 6 lymph node

Level 9 lymph node

IZ’IIICJC'DE'IJﬁ?J

Pathologic Diagnosis
A. Lung wedge left lower lobe: Old calcified granuloma.
B. Lymph node level 2: One benign lymph node.

‘C. Lung left upper lobe:

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.1 Cm
Additional dimension: 3 cm

Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Extent of Invasion: Tumor is confined to the lung

Regional Lymph Nodes: Number involved: 1

Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymphovascular Invasion: Present

 

 

 

Venous Invasion: Absent

Arterial Invasion: Absent

D. Level 6 lymph node: Two benign lymph nodes.

E. Level 9 lymph node: One benign lymph node.

Comment: There is a total of one of six lymph nodes positive for
metastatic carcinoma. The positive node was adjacent to the
bronchus in the lobectomy specimen. One additional benign lymph
node was present in this location.

PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT2, le, pr

NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution' 5 Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage
is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is
only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.

The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon’ s
operative report.

ogist:

Clinical History
Left lung mass.
Intraoperative Consultation

A — Wedge of left lower lobe: Calcified nodule, grossly
benign.
C — Left upper lobe lobectomy: Bronchial margins clear.

Donna G. Horne, M.D.
Gross Description

The specimen is received in multiple parts with the first
received fresh. This consists of a wedge of lung which measures
approximately 3 cm in maximum dimension. Basal margins are
present. The specimen is sectioned to show a 6 cm calcified
yellow—white nodule. The specimen is submitted totally after
decalcification.

The specimen received as level 2, is received in formalin and is
designated specimen "B". This consists of a single piece of
gray—black tissue measuring 3 mm in greatest dimension, totally
submitted.

The specimen received as left upper lobe is designated specimen
"C", and is received fresh. This consists of a lobe of lung which
weighs 138 gm and measures 14 x 9 x 4.5 cm. The surface shows
marked puckering of the pleura and this area is inked prior to
sectioning. The bronchial margins are removed for frozen
section. Sectioning the lung shows a firm lobulated gray—white
tumor which is subpleural in location, although grossly does not
appear to extend through the pleura. The tumor measures 4.1 x
2.3 x 3 cm. It is located beneath the pleura and approximately 1
cm from the bronchial resection margin. The lung parenchyma is
not involved by tumor, it is pink and soft. Sectioning the
peribronchial tissue shows a large lymph node measuring 1.3 cm in
greatest dimension. This is inked with blue dye and sectioned
into three parts. A possible additional node is identified. It

 

 

is placed in cassette 7. Sections have been submitted as

follows: "Cl", bronchial resection margin; "02—5", tumor with
pleural margin inked; ”C6“, random sections and "C7", bronchial
node.

The specimen received as "level 6 lymph node" is designated
specimen "D", and this consists of two lymph nodes with the
larger one measuring 2 cm in maximum dimension. This is bisected
and placed in cassette 1. The other node measures 1 cm in
greatest dimension, and this is bisected and placed in cassette
2. An additional 4 mm node is added in cassette "D1".

The specimen received as ”level 9 lymph node" is designated
specimen "E”, and this consists of a rengray lymph node which
measures 1 cm in greatest dimension. This is bisected and

totalli submitted.

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic
findings of this case.

 

   

 

