Gross:

nghtadrenatgiandwrthtttmor (weight 12 g, 40x30x20). On cut, grey-brown tumor with
smooth surface and ﬁbrous capsule.

Micro:

Solildy and alveolarly shaped pheochromocytoma with focal fresh hemorrhages. It consists
partially from polygonal cells and partially from spindle cells. In surrounding parts, small
adrenal cortex remnants are present. Adrenal cortex proliferate was found in the capsule
sporadically. From the cytologic point of view, the tumor is polymorphic with present
hyperchomatic nuclei somewhere, this ﬁnding is similar to the left-sided tumor. Prominent is
focal dense inﬁltration by plasmatic cells, staining for kappa and lambda light chains is
positive in variable, but polyclonal ratio.

Sustentacular cells (8100) are present in better differentiated tumor parts, in central
diffusively growing parts are missed.

MIB-l 2-3%of tumor nuclei positive.

Staining for chromogranin is positive in cytoplasm of large tumor cells of the nodule, negative
are adrenal cortex remnants and periadrenal adipose tissue with Feyrter's metaplasia. Positive
stainin is also present in cytoplasm of smaller cells behind the adrenal capsule, which is

possibly peripherally caught extracapsular tumor proliferation in adipose tissue. No

angioinvasion was found. "”1”fgeg”¥;_gglh5dfgﬂ-fg:5- 3324663120;
II II III
II I
I

||l|| IIIIIIIHIIlIlIIIIIlIHlIllIIIIlIIlIlIIlIIIIIIHIIIIIIIll IIIIIICIIecl
I IIIIII

PASS: I II IIII IIIIII HIH|||I||HIH III III

II III
IIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Central (middle of large nests) or conﬂuent tumor necrosis ICE—O '3

High cellularity (vb mm.) W
Cellular monotony 00/3
Tumor cell spindling (even if focal) 2 Sat-EWgM 0 74 .7

Mitotic figures >3/ 10 HPF % lO/Q [[5

Atypical mitotic ﬁgure(s)

Large nests or diffuse growth (>10% of tumor volume) 2

Extension into adipose tissue 2
Vascular invasion

Capsular invasion 1

Profound nuclear pleomorphism 1
Nuclear hyperchromasia 1

Total 8

Procurement date:

Conﬁrmation date:

 
 
     
 

Dia- nosis Discrepancy
Primary Yumarsite Discrepancy
_HIPM Dlserepanc

‘Prior MaJl .ancy History

 

  
  
  

 

€1.13; . Eg—
; i‘ﬂmmzy

   
 
 

Dual

 
 
 
 

