ﬁned:

Diilnosls Discrepang

Primary Tumor site Di

screpan
NIPM Discrepancy CV
Prior Mali - nanq History
gill/SIRCMUHOUS Prim: -
n h :lrzle):

              

 

 

'4:
m "‘
C

so
g? otsQUAurIso
_ .‘IHECW wed: 7 , -, -_
m, 'Il-Il

  

nil

     

 

i

 

Sex: Female
00.8.:

l MRN ii:
Ref Phy.

  

V Collected; (
Received'
. Reported:

 

DIAGNOSSS:

A. Rig“ ovary and failopim tube. salpingo—oophoredomy:
Ovary and fallopian tube M'thout signiﬁcam pathoiogic abnormaiiy.

B. Len ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo—oophorectomy.
Ovarian (issue without signiﬁm paihologic abnormality.
Fallopian tube (issue not identiﬁed.

C. Uterus. hysterectomy.
Tm Characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Papillary serom carcinoma.
2. Histologic grade: High grade.
Tumor site: Endometrium.
Tumor size: 3.2 x 27 cm.

Extent of involvement of other organs: Not identiﬁed.

. Lymphovaecularspeceinvasiom Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:

. Margins uninvolved: Cervix, sense, bilateral parametria.
Lymph Node Status:

1. See below.

Other:
1. pTNM stage: 9T2, ND (F160; xi}.

GNP)???

a

0. Right axiomal iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Three lymph nodes. negative (or metastatic disease.

E. Right chlorate! lymph nodes. excision:
Eight lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

F. Right iower periaortic and common lymph nodes, excision:
Six lymph nodes; negaiive for metastatic disease.

6. Left external iiiac. lymph nodes. excrsron:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastaﬁc disease

N. Left narrator lymph nodes. excisaau.
Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

1 Led lower perisorti‘c and common iymph nodes, excision;
Seven lymph nodes. negative for meiasimc disease

J. Umemum watts:
Negative for malignancy.

 

  

 
 

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
DIAGNOSIS

Myanariai invasion: Timer extends 0.6 cm into a 1.4 cm thick myomelrium, as measured mimoscopically (lessthm one—half).
lnvoivement of cervix: Tumor focaiiy present within andoearvicei name, as well as within stromai tissue.

 

SPEClMEN lNFORMATlON
Accession it
Acct! Reg #: '

 
   
 
 

 

/CA’J'3

CW,(P%‘//M1>W, Alas c?‘/‘///3
=§3/*/2/> 53L1{07ﬂ446a4;‘*“/ (71579A ll

”is/i

 

um-

uurn:2szo1eFr-37en- -
TCGA-AJ~A2914252 a1cs-3419A43car82

mumm ilmmmmmiﬁiiiiﬁmuuulllllieda‘t“
l”lllllllllllHllllllllllllllllll "’""""
mlmlmmmmmunu»Williliiiiﬁ'l'lil'i'iimill

 

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON

CUNlCAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagram Serous carcinoma of the endomatrimn
Postoperative Diagnosis:

SymptomsIRadiologic Findings:

SPECtMENs:

. Right ovary and tube

Len ovary and tube

Uterus and cervix

. Right external lilac

Right obturator

. Right lower penaonic and common
Left external lilac

Let! obturator

l. Lelt lower periaorllc and common
J. Omentum

GROSS DESCRIPTlON:

A The specimen is received labeled l ‘ lht ovary and tube. The specimen consists of an ovary with attached fallopian um. The ovary
measures 2.210.5x0.5cm. Thesurlace lsywowtogray-tan. Onsectioning, thewtsurlace is yellow-grayand revealscorpusalbicansmemuring up
to 0.5 cm identiﬁed. There are no lesions growy identiﬁed. The attached fallopian tube measures 3.6 cm h length and 0.2 cm in diameter. and the
surface is gray-tan. On sectioning, there is no material or lesions identiﬁed within the lumen. The fallopian tube appears grossly unremarkable.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: ovary in total — 1-2; representative fallopian tube ~ 3.

snowmen»

B. The specimenisreceived labeled .., - leltovaryandtube. Thespecimenconsislsolan ovary measuring30x l.0x0.5cm. Thesuiaceis
gray-tap. On sectioning there is corpus albicens identiﬁed measuring up to 0.5 cm. There are no lesions grossly identiﬁed. The fallopian tube segment is
not grossly identiﬁed. The ovary is entirely submitted in two cassettes labeled .’ 31-2

C. The specimen is received labeled torus and cervix. The specimen consists of a previously bisected uterus with attached cervix. The
uterus memes 4.5 x 4.5 x 3.2 cm and weighs 48 gm. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray to browMan. Sections from the parametrlum have been
taken. Thecervixmm35cminlengthand25cmindiameta. mmemwmwwmmnieaommwmn
ligtdtanandreveals normal mucoﬂfclds. There are no lesimsiderrtilied grosslyTheeMOHtelrialceviymeasureGaScmhlengthand 3.5::va
diameter and reveals a gray-ten. lobuter mass measuring 3.2 x 2.7 cm that is within 0.4 cm of the lower uterine segment. On sectioning, the mass
extends into the underlying myometrium approximately 0.7 cm into a 1 .4 cm thick myometrium. The myometrlum is grey-tan and trahecular and there
are no lesions grossly idsratilied. Received with the specimen are three cassettes. one green. one yellow and one blue, labeled . with the
yellow additionally labeled -1 6. the green adritionally labeled 47, and the blue additionally labeled -t 8. Representative sections are suullllﬂed in
cassettes labeled as follows: anterior cervix — 1; posterior cervix - 2; full thickness sections from the lesion - 3-7; lower uterine segment
- 8: loll momentum ~ 2r, "gm parametrlum — to.

D. The specimen is received labels: it extemal iliac. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 7.5 x 4.0 x
1.0 cm. Sectioning reveals three prohame lymph nodes that measure from 0.6 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted
in cassettes ' t. as follows: one probable node - i; one probable bisected -— 2-3; one probable node bisected - #5.

E. The specirnen is received labeled i. right obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬂbroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.0
m S-ctioning reveals eight probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are eritlrely submitted in casuttes 390675.

stollowstonoprobabiencdebisected— 1; three probablenodee—zoneprobsblenoﬂbisecled—itwcprobabieMem-tonepmbabh
node bisected -— 5; one probable lymph node bisected -— 6.

F. The specimen is received labeled ight lower periaortic and common. The specimen correlate cl portion of fibroadipose tissue. 3.5 x 2.0
x 0.6 cm. Sectioning reveals six probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.3 to 1.6 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled

est. as follows: three probable nodes -— i; one probable lymph node. b‘sected — 2; one probable lymph node. bisected - 3; one probable lymph
.ludcyuoocded -- 4.

G. The specimen is received labeled with the patients name, . lelt external lilac. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue
measuring 52 x 3.5 x 0.9 cm. Section” minute hm nvolatile lymph nodes that measure 1.5 and 3.0 cm In greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are
entirely submitted in cassettes labels allows; one probable node bisected - 1; one probable node mooted — 2—4.

H. The specimen is received labeiec l obturator. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 5.2 x 4.5 v 1 5 cm.
Sectioning reveals seven probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.7 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassetl r. as
follow one probable node. bisected -— 1; three probable nodes - 2, one probable node, bisected — 3; one probable lymph, bisects... — 4, one probable

lymph node. bisected —- 545.

l. The spec‘rnen is received labelet ill lower perlaorbc and common. The specimen consists ot' a portion of flbroadipoae tissue measuring
3.5 x 3.0 x 0.5 cm. Sectioning reveals seven possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in

mm’ .r Ax... .__. r ,. -. . . ., ”~54

 

 

 

l
i
J

 

 

‘,

“occsﬂq; izhelﬁd ‘ .
probable nodec— 4.

r 7%.: a---

Wszirrién l5 racer;

measure8520x120x15c

H is follows: two orobabte nodes bisected -— i: one probable lvmoh node. bisected -— 2. two probable nodes — 3: two

ed labeled riturn. The specimen consist: of a piece of yellowtan lobuiar ﬁbroedipose ornentum tissue that

 

ibu— w~aﬂl u... .

