 

  

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPERT
*** ADDENDUM REPORT *"*

 

ADDENDUM REPORT:

At the request case is reviewed for clariﬁcation of the margin in specimen A The tumor in specimen A (separately submitted as right
lateral margin) is presen wr in l roconnective tissue, but does not involve the ﬁbroadipose tissue and is therefore interpreted as clear of the true surgical

margin in this section. Additionally, a single gland re resentin rostatic adenocarcinoma is present within loose ﬁbroconnective tissue within the fat plain
in the main resection. Therefore, according to Theﬂn ~ this represents focal extraprostatic extension. The staging

is therefore changed to a pT3.

These ﬁndings were discussed. —

Addendum Report Issued By:

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right lateral margin; excision:
Prostatic adenocarcinoma, 4 mm in greatest dimension.

B. Prostate, vas deferens, seminal vesicals; radical prostatectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Prostatic adenocarcinoma.
. Prostate size: 6.0 x42 x 3.5 cm, 41.0 gm.
. Tumor quantitation: Tumor occupies approximately 10-20% of the prostate volume.
. Gleason grade:
a. Primary pattern: 4/5.
b. Secondary pattern: 3/5.
c. Tertiary pattern: 5/5.
ct. Total Gleason score: 7/10.
. Extraprostatic extension: Not identified.
. Seminal vesicle involvement: Not identiﬁed.
. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.
. High grade PIN: Present.
Treatment effect: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:
Prostatic adenocarcinoma extends to the right lateral margin in the main resection, see specimen A for additionally submitted right lateral margin.
- Lymph Node Status:
. Total number of lymph nodes examined:
a. Five.
b. Four separately submitted lymph nodes, see specimen C.
c. One lymph node present within soft tissue adjacent to the main resection specimen.
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (015).
Other:
Perineural invasion present. /
pTNM stage: pT2cN0.

#wN—i

N —s .4 scooximur

ONT‘

. Lymph nodes; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in four lymph nodes (0/4).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r»,-

we r.

 

