140) —O '13

UUID:10343621 -36CB-4188-AIDF -2CMIBF64CA6 ‘ U03
chA-77-Ascs-o1A-PR Redacted ﬂwcmbm 6 Was Cell
IllllllllllllllllillllllllilIlillllllllllillillll ’ 5
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllll mm" @7513

lllllllllIlllllllllIlllllllllllllIlllillliillllllllllllll “+ @ ,i [A
EL e (‘33 “”3”ng
~--—— on) was

Histopathology Report
FINAL REPORT

HlSTOFlY'
Mass removed (looectomy). ?lvtalignant.

MACHOSCOPiC
Three specimens received

1: The Specimen is labelled'r‘ight upper lobe plus ribs' and consists oi a

right upper lobe measuring 180 x 105 x 45 mm There is a vertical stapled line
superior to the hiium measuring 80 mm in length. Over the apex there are two
attached short segments of ribs. Flib 1 is relatively closely adhered. over the
pleural surface and measures 55 x 30 x 28 mm. This rib is out towards one end.
22 mm trom the true resection margin. Rib 2 loosely hangs from a ﬁbrous
fragment and measures 55 x 28 x 18 mm. Over the posterolaterai aspect of the
lung is a small segment of adherent parietal pleura measuring 30 x 25 mm.
Within the apex, underlying the ribs is a firm. white lesion measuring 25, x 25- x
23 mm. The mass shows local central necrosis. The tumour is well clear of the
hilar resection margin. The apical rib is removed and the underlying pleural
surface is inked black. The. true pleural margin is inked blue. The tumour
appears to invade the pleura within this region, but does not extendtinto the
overlyingsott tissue. The remainder'ot the lung parenchyma shows severe
emphysema with bullas in the apical aspect surrounding the tumour. No other
focal lesions are Seen or ielt throughout the lobe. [1A, bronchial resection
margin including vascular margin: 18, hilar lymph node; 10F, R8 of tumour
mass; 16, uninvolved lung, apex and base of lobe; 1H, peribrcnchlal nodes; 1!,
shave oi soft tissue lrcm' attached rib; tJ, shave of soft tissue from loosely
adhered rib; tK-L, rep sections rib]

2: The Specimen is labelled 'lymph node number 10’ and consists of fragments of
lymph node measuringQO x 8 x 6 mm. [8sz 2A}

3: The specimen is labelled ‘iourth rib right’ and consists of a rib fragment
with attached soit tissue. The rib measures t2 x 17 x 7 mm. The attached soil
tissue measuring 17 x 10 x 10 mm. No obvious lesion is identified within the
specimen. {3A. soft tissue BiT; SB, rib].

Please note that sections from the ribs in specimen 1 and 3 to follow.

MiCFlOSCOPlC

1. Sections show a peripheral moderately-differentiated squamous cell
carcinoma. There is pronounced dosmopiasia and a central area of necrosis in
association with the tumour, There is obliteration ct the pleural space
overlying the tumour due to adhesions and desmoplasia. it is difficult to
interpret the layers but there is clear invasion through pleura and into chest
wall. The involved tat appears to represent iipornatous metaplasia of pleura

Page to! 3
Report
Primed:

Histopathology Report

rather than chest wall lat. Tumour does not extend as far as the muscle or

bone and therefore the chest wall margin appears clear. The bronchial

m; ,:~;.:tion margin shows no evidence. of in situ or invasive malignancy. No
lymphatic, vascular or perineural invasion is seen. The sampled lymph nodes
show sinus histiocytosis with moderate amounts of carbon pigment and no
evidence of metastatic carcinoma. The surrounding lung parenchyma shows local
lipoid pneumonia and emphysema. Collections of smokers macrophages are
present.

COMMENT

'No sections of the ribs have been examinedvat this stage as the tissue is still
being decalcified. Sections of the ribs will be examined in due course and a
final report issued. '

2. Sections of lymph node show sinus histiocytosis and a moderate amount of
carbon pigment deposition and silicate crystals. There is no evidence of
metastatic carcinoma.

3. Sections show normal lntercostal muscle and adipose tissue. There is no
evidence of invasive or metastatic carcinoma.

lNTERlM SUMMARY
1 - 3. Flight upper lobe of lung. ribs and N010 lymph node:
i: Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma; 30 mm in maximal
dimension.
' No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineurai invasion present.
invasion into chest well; clear of margins.
No lymph node metastases.
Pathological stage pTSNGMx.
Rib sections still pending decajcitlcation.

Q’Wff-ﬁ’!“

T428000 till-80703 91-03000

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT »
The sections of rib have now been examined and these do not show any
pathological features.

FINAL SUMMARY
1 - 3. Right upper lobe of lung, ribs and N010 lymph node:
1: Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma; 30 mm in maximal

Page 2 of 3
Report
Printed:

 

Histopathology Report

dimension.

2: No blood vesseL iymphatic or perineural invasion present.

3: Invasion into chest wan; clear of margins.
4: No kymph node metastases.
5; Pathoiogical stage pT3NOMx.

Heported

 

‘ Magnum; Dtsaepanc‘,‘

Tumor Site

ﬂlPNX Discrepancy

Prior

case 65

Reviewer

 

3 31 I3 m

 

