SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number:-

Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
A: Anus and rectum, abdominal perineal resection

Tumor Histologic Type: Colorectal adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade: moderately differentiated

Depth of Invasion: through muscularis propria and into peri-rectal soft tissues (A29)
Lymphatic Invasion: not identified

Venous Invasion: not identified

Perineural invasion: not identified

Margins:

Proximal margin: negative (4 cm)

Distal margin: negative (4.2 cm)

Circumferential (radial) margin (rectal tumors only):

- Carcinoma is 1 mm from right perirectal soft tissue margin (FSA1)

- Carcinoma is 5 mm from left perirectal soft tissue margin (FSA2)

- Carcinoma is 3 mm from the anterior perirectal soft tissue margin (FSA3)

- Posterior soft tissue and bone margin is negative

Distance of carcinoma from closest margin (specify): 1 mm to the right perirectal soft tissue margin (block FSA1)

Regional lymph nodes:
Total number with metastasis: 0
Total number examined: 11

Additional pathologic findings: none

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: ypT3 pNO
Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending
clinical review and additional information.

B: Soft tissue, left anterior pelvic sidewall margin, biopsy
- Fibroadipose tissue, negative for carcinoma.

C: Small bowel and skin, resection

- Benign skin with ulceration, dense dermal sclerosis, fistula formation, and adherent segment of small bowel with foreign body giant
cell reaction and embedded foreign polarizable material (surgical mesh).

- Negative for carcinoma.

D: Colon, transverse, partial resection

- Benign segment of colon with serositis, serosal adhesions, foreign body giant cell reaction, and embedded foreign polarizable
material.

- Negative for carcinoma.

E: Small bowel, jejunum, partial resection
- Small bowel segment with acute and chronic serositis and serosal adhesions.

- Negative for carcinoma.

Comment:

This case was delayed in order to complete the lymph node dissection, which required re-examination of the gross specimen after
tissue digestion with Dissect-Aid.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative consultation was requested in by.

FSA1: Right pelvic sidewall margin, biopsy
- Margin negative.

FSA2: Left pelvic sidewall margin, biopsy
- Margin negative.

FSA3: Anterior pelvic sidewall margin, biopsy

- Margin negative.

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
with rectal adenocarcinoma, previous abdominal surgeries and hernia repair, and likely entero-cutaneous fistula.

Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "anus/rectum".
Specimen fixation: formalin
Parts of bowel received: Colon/distal rectum, anus, perianal skin, pelvic sidewall, posterior bone (sacral or coccyx), perirectal fat.

Specimen dimensions: Superior inferior 15 cm, lateral to lateral 11 cm and anterior posterior 5 cm. The specimen came with the
rectum open from the frozen room.

Orientation: Perirectal soft tissues are inked as follows: right=b|ue, left=black, bone=green, posterior soft tissue above and below
bone=also green, and anterior=red.

Tumor location: At dentate line and proximal to it.

Gross appearance of tumor: Bosselated tan surface, white/tan and firm on cross section, infiltrative borders.

Tumor dimensions: 5.5 x 5 x 2 cm

Gross depth of invasion: Tumor grossly involves perirectal soft tissue posteriorly and may involve bone present in the specimen.
Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: no

Luminal obstruction: partial

Bowel circumference at tumor site: 7.5 cm after fixation

Gross distance of tumor from margins: 4.2 cm to distal margin and 4 cm to proximal margin

Lymph nodes: per block summary

Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes

Digital photograph taken: no
Block Summary:

A1 - distal soft tissue margin, anterior, en face

A2 - distal soft tissue margin, posterior, en face

A3 - distal soft tissue margin, right, en face

A4 - distal soft tissue margin, left, en face

A5 - anterior soft tissue margin, en face, midway

A6 - posterior soft tissue margin, en face, midway, above bone
A7 - right pelvic sidewall soft tissue margin, en face, midway
A8 - left pelvic sidewall soft tissue margin, en face, midway
A9 - superior soft tissue margin, en face

A10 - colonic resection margin, en face

A11 - tumor, full thickness cross section

A12-A13 - tumor, full thickness cross section, bisected

A14 - interface of tumor with normal colonic mucosa

A15 - tumor at left posterior perirectal soft tissue margin (black ink), perpendicular sections
A15 - dentate line

A17 - anal skin

A18 - three lymph node candidates

A19 - one lymph node candidate

A20 - two lymph node candidates

A21 - two lymph node candidates

A22 - one lymph node candidate

A23 - two lymph node candidates

A24 - four lymph node candidates

A25 - two lymph node candidates

A25 - superior bone margin, en face, status post decal

A27 - inferior bone margin, en face, status post decal

A28 - posterior margin soft tissue margin, perpendicular section
A29-A30 - tumor at bone, status post decal, bisected slice
A31-A33 additional lymph node candidates

A34 - one additional lymph node candidate, bisected
A35-A38 - additional lymph node candidates

Container B is additionally labeled "left anterior pelvic sidewall margin". The container holds one unoriented yellow-tan soft tissue
fragment measuring 4 x 1.8 x 1.1 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in B1-B3,-

Container C is additionally labeled "small bowel". The container holds a tortuous segment of bowel with attached adipose tissue and
an ellipse of skin adherent to the bowel wall. The specimen is not oriented as to distal and proximal ends. Overall fragment
measurements are 15 x 17 x 7 cm. The length of bowel measures approximately 22 cm. The skin ellipse measures 9 x 5 cm. There

is an ulcer with an overlying scab present on the skin ellipse measuring 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The abdominal wall feels very firm and on cross
section it reveals a synthetic mesh in the wall likely from previous hernia repair. A fistula tract to the skin surface is also identified. At
one of the ends the bowel lumen is greatly narrowed with lumen circumference of 3.5 cm. Sectioning through this narrowed bowel
segment reveals a firm nodule on the serosal side of the bowel wall.

A firm spherical mass is present in the pericolonic soft tissue close to the ellipse of skin on the specimen measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 3 cm
with intact serosal covering, inked red. Sectioning through the mass reveals what appears to be a fragment of the intestine walled
off from the rest of the bowel and encased in gelatinous material. Surgical staples are also found suggesting that this was sequelae
of surgical manipulation.

The bowel mucosa is pink tan and unremarkable.

Block Summary:

C1-C2 - undesignated bowel resection margin, en face

C3-C4 - representative sections through the narrowed bowel segment
C5-C7 - representative sections of the walled off wad of intestine

C8-C10 - en face margins of the skin ellipse, unoriented
C11 - interface of the node and skin

C12 - cross sections of the ulcerated lesion in the skin
C13 - abdominal wall mesh

C14 - cross section of bowel from an adhesed area
C15-C15- representative cross sections of bowel

Container D is additionally labeled "transverse colon". The container holds an unoriented fragment of bowel measuring 5.5 cm in
length and 5.5 cm in the luminal circumference. The mucosa is unremarkable, the serosal surface has many lysed adhesions.
Sectioning through the bowel wall reveals areas of firmness with whitish streaks that may represent mural calcifications.

Block Summary:

D1-D2 - bowel ends, unoriented

D3 - representative section of bowel

D4 - representative section of firm bowel wall, status post decal

Container E is additionally labeled "jejunum". The container holds an unoriented fragment of bowel with pink-tan unremarkable
mucosa and multiple lysed adhesions on the serosal surface. The length of the specimen is 38 cm. Several areas of narrowing are
present with luminal circumference measuring 5 cm in one area and 3.4 cm in another area. There are staples embedded in the
bowel wall with fibrous adhesions covering them suggesting that these are remnants of a previous surgery.

E1-E2 - bowel ends, unoriented

E3 - representative section through a narrowed area

E4 - representative section through another narrowed area
E5-E7 - representative sections of bowel

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by. Sections of the colo-rectum show a moderately-differentiated adenocarcinoma
widely invading muscularis propria with a pushing border, and with focal invasion into perirectal soft tissue (A29). Lymphovascular,
venous, or perineural invasion is not identified. Tumor approaches multiple perirectal soft tissue margins as demonstrated in
perpendicular margin sections taken at the time of intraoperative evaluation.

Signature

Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above
diagnosis(es).

