 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Omentum:
Extensive inﬁltration b

  

B. Hysterectomy:
Ovarian carcinoma.
Tumor Characteristics

   
 

Ovary involved ."?-_

 

. Amountidegree ofinvoivemeniofeaoh ova "

PU‘PWNT‘

Lymphovasooiar space invasion: Present.
5 Right fallopian tube Not involved by tumor.

 

8. Other peritoneal biopsies: None.
Lymph Node Status:

.5.

Number of lymph nodes examined: None.
Other:

Cervix: Negaiive.

.

Endooervix: Serosal involvement by neoplasm.

Endometrium: Endometriai polyp.

 

. “Mm 151.. ,

Uterine serosa: involved by neoplasm.

 

Other organs or biopsies: None.

Correlation with intraoperative ﬁndings: None.

Results of additional studies: Pending.

wesmwewmn

pTNM stage: T20 {utilizing companion cytology report .

 

 

from serosa and iymphovaswlar space invasion.

 

 

 

 

E-QRMAIIO

 

CLINICAL HISTORY: .

Preoperative Diagnosis: Ovarian CA?
Postoperative Diagnosis:
SymptomsiRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Omentum
B. 880, uterus, cervix

 

,_ fSE-ECIMENDATA' _

GROSS SCRIPTIO .
A. The ﬁrst container AIS labeled with the patient's name omentum. The specimen consists of multiple pieces of yellow— -brovm
hemorrhagic. lndurated, yellow~tan. lobular ﬁbroadipose omentum tissue measuring in aggregate 45 x 7 x 2 cm. The omentum Is almost completely
replaced by yellowgray ﬁbrotic tissue. Representative sections are submitted in two cassetes labeled

   

B. The second container B is labeled with the patients name BSD, uterus, cervix. The specimen consists of a uterus with attached cervix
and bilateral adnexal complexes. The uterus measures 6.0 x 4.5 x 4.0 cm. and weighs 128 grams. The serosai surface is gray to browri-tan with
hemonhage and adhesions. On the anterior aspect there is attached gray-tan ﬁbrous tissue that displays yellow-gray ﬁbrinous maten'al adhered to the
surface. The cervix measures 3.5 cm. in length and 1.5 cm. in diameter and has a 1.0 cm. slit patent as. The ectocervix is light tan with hemorrhage.
The endocervical canal is light tan. contains mucus and there is no lesion seen grossly. The endometriai cavity measures 2.5 cm. in length and 0.5 cm.
from some to comu. The lining measures 0.1 cm. and is light tan smooth and glistening. There is a pale tan to red-tan polyp measuring 1.5 cm.
identiﬁed. The myometn'um measures up to 0.9 cm. in greatest dimension. On sectioning the cut surface 13 gray-tan tIabecular. There is a white—tan
ﬁbrotic area corresponding to the adhered portion of ﬁbrous tissue that measures 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension that grossly appears to be invasion from
the tissue through the serosal surface into the myometrium. The left ovary measures 2.5 x2.0 x 1.0 cm. The surface is brovm—tan and shaggy. On
sectioning the cut surface ls yellow-gray ﬁbrous revealing a probabie mass measuring up to 1.2 cm. The left fallopian tube is not grossly identiﬁed.
There is a possible tubai structure measuring 2.0 cm. in length and 9.5 cm. in diameter with a markedly hemon‘hagic cut surface. The right ovary ,
measures 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The surface is gray to brown—tan shaggy. 0n sectioning there reveals a gray-tan ﬁbrous mass measuring 1.5 cm. in
greatest dimension. The right fallopian tube measures 4. 5 cm. in length and 0, 5 cm. in diameter. On sectioning the fallopian tube is grossly ‘
unremarkable. Detached from the specimen and received separa ely {11s a . llow-gra shaggy soft tissue mass measuring 4 5 x 3 .5 x2. 0 cm. Oil
sectioning It has a gray-tan ﬁbrotic appearance. it??? 57536—3 H ' ”11;; [c ‘ tttd - gﬁl'aﬁdin drangettassetfes {assist}-
Remium with the specimen are two cassettes, o . ‘ " “ye ‘ 5§eprese tative sections are submitted' In cassettes
I as follows: anterior cervix block 1; posterior cervix block 2; endometriai polyp bisected and submitted' In total' In blocks 3 and 4; sections

from anterior endometriumlmyometnum' In blocks 5 and 6; posterior endomeiﬁumlmyometrium' In blocks 7 and 8; sections from adhered soft tissue with

possible lesion into the myometrium In blocks 9 and 10; sections from left ovary in blocks 11- 13; possible left fallopian tube In block 14; sections from
WWI fallopian tube block 18; separately submitted mass in. blocks 19‘22.

     

 

 

 

 

