 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL

DIAGNOSIS:
OVARY, LEFT, OOPHORECTOMY
- HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA
;' - PARAOVARIAN ADHESIONS

FALLOPIAN TUBE, LEI-TI", SALPINGECTOMY

 

- FALLOPIAN TUBE WITH HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA INVADING INTO BUT NOT THROUGH

THE MUSCULARIS WITH SURROUNDING IN SITU SEROUS CARCINOMA

OVARY, RIGHT, OOPHORECTOMY
- HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA WITH SURFACE INVOLVEMENT
- EXTENSIVE LYMPHVASCULAR SPACE INVASION
- PARAOVARIAN SIMPLE CYST

FALLOPIAN TUBE. RIGHT, SALPENGECTOMY
— PARATUBAL CYSTS

UTERUS, SEROSA, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTEFIECTOMY
- HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA WITH EXTENSION INTO MYOMETRIUM
- FOCAL ENDOSALF’INGIOSIS

UTERUS. MYOMETRIUM, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY

— HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA INVADING INTO THE MYOMETRIUM BY DIRECT EXTENSION

FROM SEROSAL IMPLANT

- EXTENSIVE LYMPHVASCULAR SPACE INVASION

- LEIOMYOMATA {LARGEST MEASURING 3.5 CM IN MAXIMUM DIMENSION)
- DETACHED CALCIFIED AND HYALINIZED LEIOMYOMA

UTERUS, CERVIX, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY

- HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA INVOLVING PARAMETRIAUPERITONEAL TISSUE

- LYMPHOVASCULAR SPACE INVASION IN DEEP CERVICAL SOFT TISSUE

OMENTUM, OMENTECTOMY
— HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA
— NO CARCINOMA IDENTIFIED IN ONE LYMPH NODE (0/1)

l'~ .MSEECIHEDFEXCJSION
- METASTATIC CARCINOMA PRESENT IN ONE OF THREE LYMPH NODES (US)

ﬁééﬁ‘éﬁT—W‘"

Page 1 of 4

 

 

  

FA ”24 1858

By this signature, I attest that the above diagnosis is based upon my personal
examination of the slides(andfor other material indicated In the diagnosis}.

'“Rspon Electronically Reviewed and Signed Out By

 

 

Intraoperative Consultation:

”Brought to frozen 'lett tube and ovary“ consisting of a 275 gram specimen measuring 12.5 x 7 x 5 cm. it has a smooth

outer lining. Sectioned to release serous iluid and to show a unilocular cyst with smooth lining and no papillary

excrescences. Two yellow—tan. firm plaques are resent and frozen as F81. Tumor and normal fallopian tube taken for
tudy. Remainder for permanents." byh

FS: Left tube and ovary. biopsy
_

MicroscOpic Description and Comment:

Within the left fallopian tube, there is a 0.8 cm focus of invasive serous carcinoma surrounded by areas of in situ
serous carcinoma. The serous carcinoma invades into the muscularis but not through the wall of the tube. There is
also a large amount of morphologically identical serous carcinoma involving both ovaries, the serosa oi the uterus. the
parametrial soft tissue, the omentum and a lymph node from an unspecified site. Focally the tumor in these areas
shows cleared cytoplasm suggestive of a clear cell carcinoma component. but these areas make up much less than
10% of the tumor.

The presence of in situ serous carcinoma adjacent to invasive serous carcinoma in the left fallopian tube is strong
evidence that there is a primary fallopian tube carcinoma. Whether the tumor in the ovaries and peritoneum are

metastatic from this fallo ian tube carcinoma or represent synchronous primary tumors cannot be determined with
certalntv- *

History:
The patient is a - with a pelvic mass, omenlal mass, and elevated CAt25 level.

Specimenisi Received:

A: LEFT ovnnv AND TUBE I
B: RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY. UTERUS AND CERVIX
C: OMENTUM

Gross Description;
The specimens are received in three formalin-filled containers, each labeled “The first container

is labeled 'left tube and left ovary.“ it contains a previously sectioned cystic ovary wr a previous y described
dimensions and weight as stated in the intraoperative portion of this report. The serosai surface of the cystic ovary is
tan-yellow and purple. There are a few fibrous adhesions noted on the surface of the cyst covering an area oi 6 x 4 cm.
The inner surface of the cyst is relatively smooth and has a similar coloration as the outer surface. There is an
intramural, nodular thickening measuring 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm. it has been previously sectioned to reveal a yellow—tan
and while cut surface which is variegated. There is another thickened area of the wall of the cyst measuring 1.8 x 2.9 x
1.5 cm. This may represent a portion of the round ligament vs residual ovary. It is sectioned to show a yellow-tan to 3‘

 

 

 

white. variegated cut surface. There Is an attached fallopian tube measuring—4W c n length x 0.5 cm In average

Page 2 of 4

Page??? 'oi 4 —“ WWW" "

 
  

I TUBA—244850

diameter. It appears to have beenpreviously ligated. The serosal surface contains a yellow-tan, nodular tumor implant
measuring 2.4 x 2.8 x 2.4 cm. It is located at the distal end of the fallopian tube and involves the fimbria. The cystic
ovarian mass appears to be separate from the fallopian tube. A remnant of the ovary is not grossly identiﬁable. There is
an additional segment of fallopian tube noted measuring 1 cm in length with a diameter of 0.4 cm. It has a pinpoint
lumen and contains no lesions. Serial sectioning through the remainder of the fallopian tube reveals tumor within the
lumen contiguous with the previously described tumor implant on the surface of the fallopian tube. Proximal to the
tumor, the fallopian tube appears somewhat dilated and filled with serOsangulneous fluid. The lumen measures up to
0.5 cm in diameter. Also present within the container is a white tissue cassette labeled "F81 ." It contains fragments of
tan-yellow soft tissue, measuring 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate.

   

l ‘ ’ SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Labeled: A1 — remnant of FSt ; A2 to A4, nodular thickened area of cyst wall, entirely submitted; A5, the other nodule
located within the cyst wall, possibly representing round ligament; A6, probable fibrous adhesions on surface of cyst;
A7, additional sections of cyst; A8, small segment of fallopian tube located most proximaliy; A9 and A10, more proximal
end of additional segment of fallopian tube distal to point of ligation; A11 and At 2, cyst wall in relation to fallopian tube
and tumor nodule on falio fan tube surface; A13, tumor nodule at fimbriated end of fallopian tube; A14, cyst wall and
paraovarian tissuei

The second container ls labeled “right tube and ovary, uterus, and cervix." it contains a uterus and cervix wim attached
proximal portion of right fallopian tube. The uterus and cervix measure 7 cm from fundus to tip oi cervix x 6.3 cm from
cornu to camp x 6 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosal surface of the uterus is tan-pink to purple. There are
possible tumor implants noted on the posterior right aspect of the fundus, measuring 2.3 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The anterior
and posterior lundic aspects of the uterus are nodulardue to the presence of subserosai and intramural probable
leiomyomas. The cervix measures 3.5 x 3.4 x 3.4 cm. The ieit and posterior parametrie appear to contain tumor
implants. measuring up to 3.? x 2.3 x 3 cm. A portion of the peritoneal lining over the posterior aspect ol the uterus and
parametric has been partially pulled away from the parametrla and uterus. There is redundant peritoneal tissue which
may actually be a portion of a cystic structure which has been previously opened. The exact size of this possible cystic
structure cannot be determined. This portion of redundant peritoneal tissue vs cyst wall tissue measures 3 cm in
greatest dimension with a thickness measuring up to 0.3 cm. The ectocervix measures 3.4 x 3 x 4 cm and is tan-pink to
purple and unremarkable. The cervical be is slit-like and measures ~01 cm. The uterus and cervix are opened to
reveal an endometrlai cavity measuring 2 x 3 cm. The endometrlai cavity is somewhat deformed due to the presence of
a submucosai, probable Ieiomyoma within the anterior superior segment as well as other intramural and subserosal
leiomyomas. These ieiomyomas range in size from 1.5 to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. They have discrete borders
and tan-white. whorled cut surfaces. The endometrlai mucosa is tan-pink to red without lesions and measures up to 1
mm in thickness. The endocervical canal measures 2.7 x 0.7 cm with tan-white mucosa with a herringbone contour.
Also present within the container is an ovary with attached segment of fallopian tube. The presumed right ovary is
previously disrupted with an opening in the serosa with readily observable tumor. Though it is rather difficult to
reconstruct the original dimensions of the ovary, the ovary appears to measure 6 x 3.5 x 3.4 cm. The serosal surface is
fan, grey, purple, and pink and yellow. There may be possible tumor implants on the serosa which measure <1 mm in
height. Sectioning through the right ovary reveals solid tumor making up 50% of the ovary as well as a cyst measuring
2.5 cm in diameter. The cyst is filled with tan-yellow to grey, papillary excrescences along with blood. The more solid
component has a variegated. tan—grey and yellow cut surface. The right fallopian tube measures 5.4 cm in length with a
diameter ranging from 0.5 to 2 cm at the ﬁmbriated end. The serosal surface is tan-grey to purple and unremarkable.
Sectioning the fallopian tube reveals a pinpoint lumen with a wall thickness measuring up to 0.2 cm. The tumor does
not appear to involve the fallopian tube grossly. There are multiple paratubai cysts ranging in size from 0.4 to 0.7 cm in
diameter located between the fallopian tube and the ovarian mass. The cysts have a smooth inner lining and contain
clear fluid. Also present within the container are multiple fragments of grey-tan, soft tissue fragments with ragged
surfaces, measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. They are sectioned to show yellow—tan and grey, variegated cut
surfaces similar to the tumor previously described in other areas. There is a round, hard structure with a tan-white and
purple surface measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. it is sectioned to show a tan-yellow, variegated cut surface. Also present
within the container are fragments of possible serosal tissue vs cyst wall, measuring 3.7 x 3.5 x 0.4 cm in aggregate.
They are sectioned to show grey, as well as grey, yellow, variegated cut surfaces. Also present within the container is a
fragment of yellow, maroon. and grey, librofatty soft tissue measuring 4.7 x 3.5 x 1 cm. Within this tissue one possible
lymph node is identified measuring 3.9 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm.

Labeled Bi, possible tumor implant on uterine serosal surface; B2, redundant peritoneum vs possible cyst well located
on posterior aspect of parametria; BS to BS, contiguous strip of anterior endomyometrium including cervix to tundus; ES
to B8, contiguous strip of posterior endomyometrium including cervix to tundus; 89, left parametrium; Bi 0, right
parametrium; B11, additional posterior parametrium; B12, probable ieiomyomas; B13 to 817, right ovarian mass; 818,
right ovarian mass in relation to paratubal cyst; B19, right iatlopian tube and paraovarian tiseue; B20, fimbriated end of
right fallopian tube; B21. detachedﬂagmeﬂﬂmmguﬁghardnodule.(ioufecaicificatioo);B23,.detached
fragments of serosa vs cyst wall; 824, one possible lymph node bisected; B25. remainder of fibroiatty tissue

Page 3 of 4

 

 
 
 
 
 

TCGA~24-185[i

  

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
surrounding possible lymph node. -

The third container is labeled 'omentum." it contains a portion of omenturn measuring 32.5 x 7.5 x 4.5 cm. The
omentum is yellow and purple and contains two probable tumor implants, the largest of which measures 7.5 x 6 x 4.5
cm. The largest tumor implant is a cystic structure, which upon opening. contains serosanguineous iluid. The cyst wall
is tan, pink, purple, and yellow with a fairly smooth outer surface. The inner lining contains papillary excrescences
measuring up to 4 cm in greatest dimension. The cystic structure is multilocuiated. The smaller implant measures 2.3 x
14 x 1.6 cm. Labeled Ct to C3, larger cystic tumor implant; C4, smaller tumor implant. _

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4
END OF REPORT

94f—““"‘

 

