-

Results Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen (Order

 

Result Information
Status (Last updated Date/Time}

Accession #

Bgsult Impression

 

UUID:DF3145A4-6311-4DCD-914F-333AABE4DAE7

“Gilli?hiliiffliﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬁumuIllllﬁﬁﬁlﬁﬁlted
"H““IIIHHI I
I” II HIIIIIIIIIIHIIH“IIIIIIIIIII ”“Illlllllll I lllllll I” III
I” ”IIIIIIIIIIHHIINII ll Illlllllllllllllllll I H I l ll III] ”II"
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT W 12$ 0 *3

 
 
 
  
  

Patient Name:
Med. Rec.#:

We him H7015
DOB: ($4M, JWM 3/7513
:325;." WWW
3E3???“ *“ tam: mm 422. a

Service , <31») 9/16/5

Receive
Locatio
Client:
Physici

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. 'Lymph node, "bile duct," biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

B. Liver, "tumor margin," biopsy: Cirrhotic liver, no tumor.

C. Gallbladder) cholecystectomy:
l. Cholelithiasis and mild cholesterolosis.
2. No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

D. Liver, partial hepatectomy:

l. Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated, 5.3
cm, margins negative; see comment.

2. Micronodular cirrhosis consistent with clinical history of hepatitis
C virus and alcoholic liver disease.

COMMENT:
Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment

~ Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated

trabecular pattern, with foci of poorly differentiated pleomorpnic
subtype (slide DZ).

~ Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated.
~ Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion): 5.3 cm.
— Tumor necrosis: Less than 30%.
- Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver
parenchyma): Absent.
— Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 5.3 cm.
— Vascular invasion: Small vessel invasion, slide D3. No large vessel
invasion.
- Hepatic capsule: No tumor in capsule.
— Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver.
- Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 0.8 cm from medial
margin, grossly.
— Non—neoplastic liver: Micronodular cirrhosis (confirmed by trichrome
stain).
- Steatosis: Mild.
— Iron stain (in cirrhotic liver), scale 0—4+: O.

- Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver): None.
— Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 2
(0/2). '

- AJCC Stage: pTle.

has reviewed slides D3 and D5 and agrees with the
presence of small vessel invasion in the absence of large vessel
involvement.

Specimen(s) Received

A: Bile duct (FS)

BzTumor margin (FS)
C:Gallbladder

D:Liver, partial resection

Intraoperative Diagnosis
F51 (A) Bile duct, lymph node, biopsy: No tumor, no carcinoma. (Dr.

F82 (B) Liver, biopsy: cirrhotic liver with focal cautery. .

IOCl (D) Right lobe liver, wedge resection: Margins grossly clear,
lesion 0.8 cm from the medial margin.

Clinical History
OR Room and Phone # (frozen specimen : intraoperative consults only)

Collection Time

The patient is a -year-old man with biopsy—proven hepatccellular
carcinoma (not reviewed at of the right liver lobe. Per Dr.

the patient also has hepatitis C virus and alcoholic liver
disease. Recent imaging reveals a 5 x 4 cm segment 5/6 hepatic
hypervascular mass. The patient now undergoes open partial right
hepatectomy and cholecystectomy.

Gross Description
The case is received in four parts, labeled with the patient’s name and

medical record number.

Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "bile duct," and
consists of a single, soft, red—tan, ovoid unoriented lymph node (2 x
1.3 x 1 cm). The specimen is trisected, revealing soft red-tan
parenchyma without discrete mass or lesion. One—third Of the specimen
is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, with the frozen section
remnant subsequently submitted in cassette Al. The remaining fresh
lymph node is submitted in cassette A2.

Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "margin-ES," and
consists of one, rubbery, rectangular fragment of deep red to brown firm
soft tissue (1 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm). The specimen is entirely frozen for
frozen section diagnosis 2 with the cauterized surface embedded down
with the frozen section remnant submitted submitted in cassette Bl.

Part C is received fresh and additionally labeled "gallbladder,ﬁ and
consists of a single unoriented, intact gallbladder (8 cm x 2.5-3.8 cm
body—fundus, 0.1 cm wall thickness). The gallbladder is filled with
yellow—brown, viscid fluid and a 1.8 cm, yellow—brown, crystalline
stone. The mucosa is red-tan and granular. The hepatic surface is
pink—tan and roughened with brown—tan cautery artifact. A single
pink—tan lymph node (0.7 cm in greatest dimension) is identified in the
scant,attached yellow adipose tissue. The cystic duct margin is inked
blue, and submitted together with representative sections of the fundus,
body and lymph node.

Part D is received fresh and additionally labeled "right liver lobe,"
and consists of a portion of liver (6.5 cm from right to left x 5 cm
from anterior to posterior x 7 cm from superior to inferior). ‘

GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a 5.3 x 4.2 x 4 cm, yellow-tan,
well—circumscribed but unencapsulated mass with yellow-tan to white,
lobular parenchyma. The mass is located 0.8 cm from the closest
approach to the medial margin, 1.1 cm from the closest approach to the
inferior and superior margins, 1.4 cm from the closest approach to the
lateral margin, and 2.4 cm from the closest approach to the deep margin.
The mass approaches the hepatic capsule to within 0.1 cm. The
surrounding uninvolved hepatic parenchyma is tan—red and micronodular
(less than 0.1 cm to 0.1 cm). No lymph nodes are identified.

ORIENTED BY: Surgeon's sutures: Long - superior, short — medial.
INKING: ‘ -

- Superior: Blue.

— Inferior: Green.

m Posterior: Black.

CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as

follows:

Dl: Mass with closest approach to superior margin.

D2: Mass with closest approach to inferior margin.

D3—DB: Representative sections of mass.

D6: Representative section of liver, away from mass, medial.
D7: Representative section of liver, away from mass, lateral.
D8: Mass with closest approach to deep margin.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis

made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides.
The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary

interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and
performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

’Pathologist
Electronically signed out

Pathology PDF Report

 

Show images for Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen
Authorizing Provider lnformatjon

 

Name: 77

Phone:

Signed by

 

Sioned Phone Pager

Result History
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

 

Sutg'gal Pathology (enter 1 oer line): 1. bile duct-frozen

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below.

Surgical Pathology
(enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen

 

 

 

Rathology and Cytology
Show images for Surgical Pathology ‘ (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen
Order Information
Order Date/Time Release Date/Time Start Date/Time End Dale/Time

Release Information
Released On Released By

Order Details

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
Once 1 occurrence STAT Unit Collect

Order Questions
Question Answer ' Comment

Specimen _ (enter1 per line) 1. bile duct-frozen

Lab Collection and Receipt lnformation

Lab Receipt Time I

 

 

Collect Date Collect Time Collected By Lab Receipt Date
Collection information
Resulting Agency
Order Provider Info
' Office
phone 7 Pager/beeper E-mail

Ordering User
Authorizing Provider

Billing Provider

Electronically ’Signed By:
Electronically Authorized By

Acknowledgement info
For At

Order Status for: SURGICAL PATHOLOG\

Parent Status: Completed

Child Orders

(This order does not yet have any children)

Order Requisition

Surgical Pathology

Electronically Ordered By

Acknowiedced Bv

Acknowledged On

 

(enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen

 
 
 
 
 

 

gr.“- 8 5' "3
magnum. Discrepanl‘v

it imary Tumor Site Discreyanry

”WM Discl'eEancy

>F rieryialignancy History

   

