 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS -

A. Omentum, omentectomy: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

B. Uterus, cervix, fallopian tubes and ovaries; total abdominal
hysterectomy and

bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:

- Cervix: Nabothian cysts.

- Endometrium: No significant pathoiogic abnormality.

— Myometrium: No significant pathologic abnormality.

— Serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.

- Left ovary: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

— Left fallopian tube: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

— Right ovary: Serous carcinoma, grade III, FIGO stage IIIC, see
comment.

- Right fallopian tube: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

- Peritoneum: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

C. Left peri-aortic lymph nodes, dissection: Eleven regional lymph
nodes with no

evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/11).

D. Omentum, omentectomy: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

E. Perltoneum, excision: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

F. "Pelvic tumor," resection: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

G. Right peri-aortic lymph nodes, dissection: Serous carcinoma,
metastatic to one of

five regional lymph nodes (1/5); see comment.
Page 1 OH

H. Right pelvic iymph nodes, dissection: Serous carcinoma, metastatic
to one of .

fourteen regional lymph nodes (1/14); see comment.

I. Coion, resection: Serous carcinoma, metastatic to mesocolon and
subserosa.

J. Sigmoid coion, epipioic fat,

resection: Serous carcinoma, metastatic to adipose tissue.

COMMENT:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Serous carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: III.

3. Location of tumor: Right ovary.

4. Diameter of tumor: 2.? cm.

5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Right ovary completely replaced by a papillary
and nodular tumor.

6. Condition of capsule: Not applicable.

 

 

 

7;_A£9_§§E§n9¢ 01‘ Cut surface: 50% and. cystic,u:nainiy;soiicl___m__w- WW-
8. Color of solid areas: Pink-tan and white-tan.

  

9. Necrosis: Focal.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not present.
11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Right fallopian tube, left fallopian tube, left ovary.
12. Pelvic lymph nodes: One of twelve contain metastatic carcinoma (1/12), slide A4.
13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Abdominal peritoneum, omentum, serosa of
bowel.

14. Para—aortic lymph nodes: One of sixteen lymph nodes contain metastatic

carcinoma (1/16), slide (33.
15. Peritoneal cytology: Positive. Cytology accession number: _
16. Other significant findings: None. _

17. FIGO stage: IIIC.
18. TNM stage: pT3cN1MX.

 

Specimen(s) Received
A:Omentum (FS)

B:Uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries
C:Left periaortic node
D:Omentum

EzPeritoneum

F:Pelvic tumor

G:Right periaortic lymph node
H:Right pelvic lymph node
I:Coion

J:Sigmoid of ipiplocica

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 iAi Omentum, omentectomy: Poorly differentiated carcinoma. -
Clinical Histor

The patient is a—vith ovarian cancer. She undergoes total

abdominal hysterectomy,
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy and lymph node dissection.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in ten parts, each labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Parts A—B are received fresh. Parts 0] are received in formalin.

Part A, labeled "omentum," consists of an omentum measuring 60.0 x 12.0 x 3.0 cm,

containing numerous
Page 2 of4

white, glistening, firm, rubbery nodules, consistent with metastases, mostly within
the parenchyma and

some on the surface, the largest measuring approximately 20.0 cm. A representative
section is submitted

for frozen section 1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.
Portions are submitted for

tissue banking and Oncotech. Additional representative sections of the metastases
are submitted in

cassette A2.

Part B, labeled "cervix, uterus, tubes + ovaries," consists of 3.9?959§.Wlth bilateral
fallopian tubes, the left

 

 

ovary and a right adnexai tumor measuring 2.7 x 2.4 x 2.0 cm that is red—tan and
papillary, mostly solid

with a single 0.5 cm simple cyst filled with serous fluid. No normal right ovary is
identified. Multiple small,

nodular and papillary growths are present on the surface of both fallopian tubes, the
left ovary (0.7 cm

nodule) and a continuous flap of peritoneum attached to the left adnexa.

The entire specimen weighs 64.0 gm. The uterus measures 5.7 cm from fundus to
cervix, 3.0 cm from

cornu to cornu, 2.2 cm from anterior to posterior and is oriented by the relationship
of the round ligaments

to the fallopian tubes. The serosa is smooth. The uterine cavity sounds to 5.5 cm.
The cervix measures

2.0 cm in length and 2.5 cm in width. The external 05 is ﬁsh—mouthed and measures
0.5 cm in width. The

uterus and cervix are inked as follows: anterior in black and posterior in blue. The
specimen is opened

along the lateral borders. The transition zone is unremarkable. The endocervical
mucosa is slightly

polypoid . The endometrium is pink—tan, measures 1.0 mm and has no polyps. The
myometrium measures

1.4 cm and contains no leiomyomas or tumor. The left fallopian tube measures 4.5
cm in length and 0.6

cm in average diameter. The fimbriae are lush. On cut section, the tube is
unremarkable. The left ovary

measures 1.8 x 1.1 x 1.1 cm. On cut section, the ovary is unremarkable. The flap of
peritoneum attached

to the left ovary measures 7.0 x 3.0 x 0.1 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 4.5
cm in length and 0.6

cm in average diameter. The fimbriae are lush. On cut section, the tube is
unremarkable. Approximately

5.0 gm of the right ovary is submitted for tumor banking. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

Cassette Bl: Cervix.

Cassette BZ: Endomyornetrium.

Cassette B3: Left ovary.

Cassette B4: Left fallopian tube and attached flap of peritoneum. _
Cassette BS: Junction between right uterus and right adnexai tumor. 5
Cassettes 86—88: Right adnexai tumor. 3
Cassette B9: Right fallopian tube.

Part C is additionally labeled "left periaortic node." It consists of a single fragment of
yellow-brown

fibrofatty tissue, measuring 9.0 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm, containing numerous candidate

lymph nodes. The

specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

Cassettes C1—C2: One third of the specimen, bisected.

Cassette C3: One third of the specimen, bisected.

Cassette C4: Remaining specimen.

Part D is additionally labeled "omentum." It consists of a single fragment of yellow-

tan omentum,

measuring 7.5 x 4.8 x 1.2 cm, containing a serosal implant of light—tan, papillary

apparent metastatic ,_-..m--___-m__m “21.-.”..W
tumor, measuring 1.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Serial sections through the omentum reveal an

 

l

    

!
candidate lymph node, measuring roughly 3 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter.
Representative sections are
submitted as follows:
Cassette D1: Serosal tumor implant.
Cassette D2: Candidate lymph node, serially sectioned.
Part E is additionally labeled "peritoneum." It consists of multiple flat fragments of
purple-tan, rubbery,
membranous soft tissue, measuring roughly 6 x 6 x 0.8 cm in aggregate. The
peritoneal surface has
dozens of purple—tan to light—tan, smooth—to—slightly papillary nodules.
Representative sections are
submitted in cassette E1.
Part F is additionally labeled "pelvic tumor.“ It consists of a single fragment of light— i
tan, irregular, papillary
soft tissue, measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is friable on sectioning. A
representative section

is submitted in cassette F1.
Page 3 of4

Part (3 is additionally labeled "right periaortic node." It consists of two roughly
cylindrical fragments of

purple—tan, irregular soft tissue, each measuring 3 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm and each
containing multiple candidate

lymph nodes. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

Cassettes 61-62: One fragment, bisected, with the largest node trisected.

Cassettes GB—G4: Other fragment, bisected.

Part H is additionally labeled "right pelvic node.“ It consists of five fragments of
yellow-tan fatty tissue,

measuring 5 x 3.5 X 1.5 cm in aggregate, containing multiple candidate lymph
nodes, measuring up to 2.7

cm. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

Cassettes H1-H2: Two lymph nodes, one inked black, both bisected.

Cassette H3: Two lymph nodes.

Cassette H4: Remaining lymph nodes.

Cassettes H5-H6: Fat.

Part I is additionally labeled "colon." It consists of an unoriented loop of colon,
measuring 14.8 cm in '

length along the tinea coli x approximately 4.0 cm in diameter, with white-tan tumor
nodules and plaques

almost diffusely involving the serosa and mesentery. The margins are inked black,
and the specimen is

opened, revealing unremarkable bowel wall and mucosa. Representative sectiorls are
submitted as follows:

Cassette 11: Colon margins, perpendicular sections.

Cassette 12: Mesenteric margin.

Cassette I3: Central section of bowel.

Part 3 is additionally labeled "sigmoid of iplplocica [sic]." It consists of a single .
crescent—shaped fragment of

yellow-brown fat, measuring 9 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm, containing a few white, translucent

nodules, measuring up

to 0.2gm,ﬂp@gug,consistent witnmetastases.,Represeotativeisectionearesiewm—ﬂfwen—m~-

 

“ submitted in cassette J1.

  

 
 

Iagnosis ased on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by
attending

pathologist followin review of all

atholo slides.

        

 

 

 

 

