  

CGA-ﬁﬁ—2734

Materiai examined:

Left lung and other specimens

Clinical diagnosis and question

Right hilum, left iower lobe

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Left lung: In filled, fixed condition, left fung of 16 x 11 cm in size at base and up to 28 cm high, central bronchial
resection line 3 cm proximai to the branch of the upper lobular bronchus. 0n the hilum, six blackish and partially
damaged nodes of between 0.4 and 2.2 cm in size. The dorsal portion of the gap between the lobes has been largely
obliterated. In this region, covering an area of approx. 9 cm, pieura unclearly deiimited and discolored whitish,
thickened, with fiat retraction. Below this, with its main mass located in the border regions of segments 6 and 8 - 10, a
moderateiy soiid, pale brownish tumor with unciear demarcation and max. 7.8 cm in size. Eccentrically, a malacic area of
approx. 3.5 cm in size. No demonstrable connection to bronchial branches that can be dissected out. Tumor extends as
far as the pleura in the region of the retraction and approx. 1.5 cm deep into the upper lobe in the region of 54.
Parencbyma indurated peripheral to the tumor and yellow-brownish in color. Color of the rest of the lung tissue normai.

2.) Left hilar LN (station 10): Gray—blackish node of 2 cm in size.

3.) Left pulmonary ligament LN (station 9): Damaged, gray-biackish node of 1.5 cm in size.

4.) Left paraesophageai LN (station 8): Gray-biackish node of 5 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.

5.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): Gray-blackish node of 9 mm in size.

6.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): Damaged, gray—blackish node of 8 mm in size.

7.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): Gray-blackish node of 8 mm in size with some surrounding tissue.
8.) Left prevascular and retrotracheal LN {station 3): Clear portion of the lung of 9 mm in size.

9.) Right hiiar LN (station 10): Two damaged gray-biackish nodes of 1 and 1.1 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.

investigated:

1.) Tumor with lung parenchyma in margin, tumor with pleura, tumor with gap between Eobes (upper lobe stained),
central bronchial resection line, vascular resection margins (I iarger one split in haif + separate in iungs),

2.) - 9.) in each case, entire materiai (split in haif for 8.),

14 blocks, in some cases—, PAS, diastase-PAS.

Microscopy

on 1.) Tumor structure composed of variably sized, partially branched, solid, focal atypical epidermoid epithelia, also
focally arranged in trabecular groups. Moderately eosinophilic cytoplasm of intermediate width to wide, partially
extended lengthways to spindly. Focal intercellular bridges. Nuclei round to oval, up to strongly anisomorphlc, with
coarse chromatin, mainly small to moderately large nucleoli and relatively numerous mitoses. Extensive necroses.
Desmoplastic tumor stroma and groups of the atypical epithelia infiltrated with mixed inflammatory cells or
predominantly with granulocytes. Expansion of the atypical epithelia across the fibrosed obliterated interlobular gap
into the neighboring segments of the upper lobe. Dissected visceral pleura also focally infiltrated and notably strongly
fibrously expanded here, as well as with superficial ﬁbrin precipitates that are both external and incorporated. Sections
of the tumor margins with up to high densities of intraalveolar granulocytes and macrophages, alveolar septa sometimes
with strong edematous-ﬁbrous expansion and infiltrated with mixed inflammatory cells, as well as surrounded by
proliferated pneumocytes. Resection margin of bronchus and vessels as well as hilar lymph nodes free of tumors. The
latter with normal lymphate. Cells with development of numerous activated follicles, minor to moderate deposits of
fine-grained blackish pigments and fewer anisotropic particles within macrophages, as wall as partially with nodular,
fibrous zones with few spindle cells and, in sections, old necrotic zones, sometimes with the inclusiOn of planar calcium
salt precipitates and locally minimal bony tissue.

on 2.) - 5.), 7.), + 9.) Lymph nodes as described under 1.).

on 6.) incompletely filled peripheral lung tissue with, at the level of the visceral pleura, small, sometimes squashed
lymph nodes with normal lymphatic cells and more extended aggregates of macrophages with minor deposits of
blackish, grainy pigment.

on 8.) Peripheral lung tissue with subpieurally expanded alveolar spaces and rarefied and enlarged alveolar septa.
Mainly pleural, up to moderate deposits of blackish, grainy pigment within macrophages.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses: Large, peripheral, bronchopulmonary, partially necrotically altered, with poor
differentiation histologically, nonlceratinizing squamous epithelial carcinoma (63) of the left lower lobe of the lung,
located in the border region of segments 6 and 8 to 10.

TNM classification pT2 pNO R0, Stage lB.
C 34.3 M 8070/3

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses: Active chronic pneumonia in the areas around the tumor and fibrinous inflammation of
the visceral pleura with markedly fibrous expansion over the tumor. Lymph nodes in this region (samples 1.) - 7.) and
9.)) with abnormal reactive changes, anthracotic pigment deposits and sometimes partially calcified, old necrotic or
ossified nodular sclerosed zones. Mild focal emphysema of the lung (sample 8.)).

Remark/addendum: The carcinoma has expanded across the lobular gap into the neighboring sections of segment 4 of
the upper lobe. The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels as well as all lymph nodes that were removed or those
that were identified are tumor-free.

 

