 

 

 

- CGA_18—3421

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN{S) RECEIVED

1. Lymph—Node: s'rizR Lobar.
2. Lymph node: Interlobar ST11
3. LUNG: -

ﬁGNOSIS
i. Lymph-Node, lobar ST12R, biopsy:
~ Negative for malignancy. lymph node with follicular lymphoid
hyperplasia.

2. Lymph node, interlobar STll, biopsy:
— Negative for malignancy, lymph nodes with follicular lymphoid
hyperplasia

3. Lung, right lower lobe, lobectomy:

~ Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated with prominent
necrosis:

- Maximal tumour size: 7.7cm

- Visceral pleura invasion present

— Surgical resection margins negative for malignancy

— All peribronchial lymph nodes (6 lobar and 1 segmental) negative for
malignancy (x 7)

- Remaining lung parenchyma shows mild centroacinar emphysema and focal
non-specific pneumonitis.

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Laterality: Right

Tumor Site: RLL

“Wmor Size: Greatest dimension: 7.7 cm

Additional dimensions: 7.5 x 7.0 cm

Status: complete Page:- 1 of 3

 

 

 

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic Grade: GZ: Moderately differentiated
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT2: Tumor with any of the following
features of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension;
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the
visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis
that extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung
pNO: No regional lymph node

metastasis
pMX: Cannot be assessed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive

_ carcinoma
' Distance of invasive carcinoma from

closest margin: 3.5 cm
Margin: (bronchial resection margin)

Direct Extension of Tumor: Visceral pleura
Blood Vessel Invasion: Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Inflammation (type): focal chronic

interstial inflammation and fibrosis of undetermined significance
Slight centrilobular emphysema

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "sT 12R".

Lymph nodes: Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 0.8 cm in greatest
dimension are identified, and are submitted in toto for frozen section.
1A-lB frozen section block the resubmitted

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's identification and as
"interlobar ST11".

Lymph nodes: Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 to 1.2 x
1.2 to 0.3 cm are identified, and are submitted in toto as follows:

2A nodes

The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right lower

Status: complete Page: 2 of

3

 

 

 

 

lobe ".
Resection specimen: Right lung lobectomy measuring 19 x 14 x 8cm.
Pleural surface: intact, shows surface adhesions, has an area of
puckering measuring 7 x 3.5cm.
Number of tumours: 1
Measurements: 7.5 x 7.7 x 7.0cm.
Location: peripheral
Distance from resection margins:
3.5 cm from the bronchial resection margin
4.5 cm from the closest stapled parenchymal resection margin.
Descriptive characteristics: Tan to white in colour; solid and partly
eriable in consistency; well delineated
- ing parenchyma: mildly emphysematous
Lymph Nodes: Multiple peribronchial lymph nodes are identified up to 1.3
cm in greatest dimension.
Frozen Section: Yes
Tissue Banking: Yes
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
an bronchial margin
3B staple line margin
3C 4 peribronchial nodes
3D one peribronchial node bisected
3E one peribronchial node bisected
3F-BI tumor
3J-3K normal lung
3L one segment a1 node bisected

  

1 , 113 — Lymph nodes, negative for malignancy. Reported t—
1358h.

 

Status: complete ' Page: 3 of

3

 

