 

. , “-3
SURGICAL PATHOLO}; WORKING DRAFT [I Tm=$é2‘,:.‘;:ﬁ:§§;€’:§ﬂ’;'“unmﬁgdacted
. ll |||||I|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll
Service Date: I” lllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
DOB: (Age: Sex, Female Received; . Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Specimen(s) Received

A: Omentum, resection for tumor,fs

Taken: leceived:

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1
B: Bilateral ovaries and tubes

Taken: Received: 7

H&E, First x 1, PAS - Digest x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1,
H&E, First x

1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1
C: Bladder peritoneum tumor

Taken: Received:

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1

D; Sigmoid tumor

Taken: . Received:

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1

E: Sigmoid mesentary

H&E, First x 1
F: Left pelvis

H&E, First x 1
G: Left gutter

H&E, First x 1
H: Appendix, incidental

H&E, First x 1
1: Small bowell mesentary

H&E, First x 1
J: Splenic ﬂexure

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1
K: Ovary Blocks

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Omentum, resection: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma, involving fatty
Ussue.

B. Bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, bilateral salpingo-

oophorectomy: Poorly-differentiated, predominantly papillary serous carcinoma
involving both ovaries, fallopian tubes and with widespread involvement of
paraovarian

soft tissue; see comment.

C. "Tumor," bladder peritoneum, excision: Metastatic invasive

serous carcinoma, poorly differentiated, involving

101‘?

 

 

l’“ .,
SURGICAL PATHOLOG? WORKING DRAFT

peritoneum.

D. "Sigmoid tumor," excision: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma, involving
fatty tissue.

E. Sigmoid mesentery, excision: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma, involving
peritoneum and fatty tissue.

F. "Left pelvis," excision: Metastatic invasive adenocarcinoma, poorly
differentiated,

involving fatty tissue.

G. "Left gutter," excision: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma, involving fatty
tissue.

H. Appendix, appendectomy: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma, involving
epiploic

fat.

1. Small bowel mesentery, biopsy: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma

J. "Splenic flexure," excision: Metastatic invasive serous carcinoma

Note:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

Type of tumor: Papillary serous carcinoma.

Grade of tumor: High grade (grade III/III).

Site of tumor: bilateral.

Cut surface: solid and cystic

Necrosis: moderate.

Lymphatic/vascular invasion: absent.

Sites of metastasis in pelvis and abdomen: multiple (involving pelvic
peritoneum, omentum, right

fallopian tube, mesentery), largest nodular mass approximately 3.6 cm in greatest
dimension. Diffusely

involving the omentum.

Pelvic lymph nodes: None sampled.

Other abnormalities: None.

FIGO stage: Stage IV

TNM stage: pT3chM1

Additional comments: This tumor demonstrates predominantly papillary serous architecture
consisting largely papillary and solid growth pattern with slit-like spaces. In addition, there are
areas with prominent malignant squamous component, which suggests endometrioid
differentiation. The tumor cells are highly pleomorphic with high mitotic activity with abnormal
mitotic figures. Areas of necrosis are present. Focally, individual tumor cells are seen to contain
intracytoplasmic mucin droplets, supported by the positive staining with PAS-D but this population
is well below 10% of the tumor cells. The metastatic implants demonstrate destructive invasion
and widespread involvement of tissues in the pelvic and abdominal cavities.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FSl (A): Omentum, omentectomy: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma

20f?

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOG? WORKING DRAFT

Clinical History
The patient is a year-old woman who undergoes omentectomy and bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh, in eleven parts, each labeled with the patient's name and number.
Part A, received fresh and labeled "omentum,“ consists of a large piece of fibro-fatty tissue '
measuring 19.0 x

14.5 x 4.2 cm. The specimen appears to be diffusely involved by a tumorous mass. Serial
sectioning of the

tissue reveals grey firm homogeneous tissue which diffusely involves the fatty omentum. In
addition, there

are round nodular masses located sporadically through the omentum. A section is taken for frozen
section

analysis (F51) with subsequent placement in cassette A1. Additional sections of tumor involving
omentum

are submitted in cassettes A2-A4.

Part B, received fresh, labeled "bilateral ovaries and tubes, large ovary is left," consists of one
large complex

piece consisting of two ovaries, two fallopian tubes, and an abundant amount of complex
parametrial and

adnexal tissue. There is no uterus or cervix included in this specimen. The large cystic ovary is
designated

as left by the surgeon, and consists of a large cystic component measuring 7.5 x 6.5 x 5.9 cm in
association with a complex, firm, solid, tumorous mass. The entire specimen measures 11.5 x 6.1 x
3.8 cm.

The cystic portion is opened to reveal abundant yellow-green fluid which is drained. Associated
fallopian

tube measures 4.9 cm in length and 0.5 cm - 0.9 cm in varying diameter. The right-sided ovary
consists of

multiple nodular masses and cystic structures and measures 6.9 x 7.2 x 4.5 cm in aggregate. The
cysts

contain an abundant amount of serous, slightly yellow-tinged fluid. The solid areas consist of
multiple well

circumscribed, firm, tan-grey, fish-flesh-like masses. The right-sided fallopian tube measures 5.2
cm in

length and 0.4 cm — 0.9 cm in varying diameter, and appears unremarkable. Between the two
ovaﬂan

masses there appears to be extraneous tissue consisting of nodular, firm, yellow-tan—grey, and
homogenous masses that number at least four. Both ovaries and associated structures are inked
black on

all surfaces. A portion of each ovary is designated for research purposes. Representative sections
of the

right ovary including solid and cystic masses are submitted in cassettes 81—83. Cross- sections of
the

right fallopian tube are also submitted in cassette B3. Representative sections of firm, grey-yellow
nodular

areas are submitted in cassettes B4-B6; these represent the tumorous mass located in the midline
between

30f?

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOG’ WORKING DRAFT

 

”‘1

the two ovaries, involving parametrial and other ill—defined structures. The left ovary and large cyst
are

examined and thoroughly sectioned. The solid portion of the left-sided mass is tan-grey,
homogenous and

nodular in configuration. Representative sections of this left-sided mass are submitted in cassettes
87-89.

The large cystic structure has a wall thickness of 0.1 cm. Representative sections of this large
cystic

structure are submitted in cassette B10. A cross-section of the left fallopian tube is placed in
cassette 311.

Part C, labeled "bladder peritoneum," consists of a single piece of fibrous tissue measuring 2.8 x
3.5 x 0.9.

The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes C1-C3.

Part D, labeled "sigmoid tumor,“ consists of multiple fragments of nodular pale brown to light pink
ﬁssue

measuring 4.9 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. Representative sections from this specimen are
submitted in

cassettes D1-D3. _

Part E, labeled "sigmoid mesentery," consists of a single piece of tan-brown, soft tissue measuring
0.9 x 0.3

x 0.2 cm, entirely submitted in cassette E1.

Part F, labeled "left pelvis," consists of a single piece of dark red to brown, soft tissue measuring
1.8 x 1.1 x

0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette F1.

Part G, labeled "left gutter," consists of a single fragment of tan-brown to pink, soft tissue
measuring 0.9 x

0.3 x 0.2 cm, entirely submitted in cassette Gl.

Part H, labeled "appendix," consists of a single short appendix measuring 4.9 cm in length with a
varying

diameter of 0.6 cm - 0.7 cm. Attached is a scant amount of fat. The specimen is serially sectioned
from the

base upward. The appendicele wall measures 0.2 cm in thickness. There are no obvious fecaliths;
however, there is a certain amount of green mucoid debris located within the lumen. There are no
obvious

perforations of the appendix nor frank hemorrhage. Serial sectioning the tip of the appendix
reveals a

normal wall. Representative sections from the base, midportion, and a longitudinal section from the
tip of

the appendix are submitted in toto in cassette H1.

Part I, labeled "small bowel mesentery," consists of a very small piece of tan—brown, soft tissue
fragment

measuring 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm, entirely submitted in cassette

I 1.

Part J, labeled "splenic flexure," consists of a single small piece of fibre-fatty tissue which appears
to be

hemorrhagic. This tissue measures 3.9 x 1.1 x 1.3 cm. Serially sectioning the specimen reveals
areas of

firm, grey-white tissue. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes J 1-12.

40f?

 

 

A“

We:

' l"
SURGICAL PATHOLOG? WORKING DRAFT

Other Specimens

Specimen Class:

{HighRisk Specimen} Signed Out: ,

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep

Final Diagnosis

Vaginal, Thin Prep

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Atrophic pattern

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation.

{HighRisk Specimen} Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep
Final Diagnosis

Vaginal, Thin Prep

UNSATISFACTORY FOR EVALUATION.
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Unsatisfactory for evaluation clue to scant cellularity.

{HighRisk Specimen} Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep

Final Diagnosis

Vaginal, Thin Prep

CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.
Atrophic pattern

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation.

50f?

.1“ 3: "‘5
SURGICAL PATHOLOG WORKING DRAFT

{HighRisk Specimen}

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep

Final Diagnosis

Vaginal, Thin Prep

CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.
Atrophic pattern

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation.

Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: A: Pelvic Washing, B: Peritoneal Washing, C: Right Diaphragm Washing,
D: Left Diaphragm Washing

Final Diagnosis

A: Pelvic Washing

BENIGN.

Reactive mesothelial cells.
Inflammation.

B: Peritoneal Washing
BENIGN.

Reactive mesothelial cells.
Inflammation.

C: Right Diaphragm Washing
BENIGN.

Reactive mesothelial cells.
Inflammation.

D: Left Diaphragm Washing
BENIGN.

Reactive mesothelial cells.
Inflammation.

 

Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: A: Bladder peritoneum (FS), B: Small bowel mesentery (FS), C: Small
bowel mesentery #2, D: Right

pelvic peritoneum, E: Peri-umbilical, F: Incisional biopsy, G: Left pelvic peritoneum, H: Right
gutter, I: Left lower quadrant, J: Left

gutter, K: Peri-umbili

 

6of7

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOG) WORKING DRAFT

Final Diagnosis

A. Bladder peritoneum (FS), biopsy: Necrobiotic Granulomata; No tumor seen.
B. Small bowel mesentery (FS), biopsy: No tumor seen.

C. Small bowel mesentery #2, biopsy: Necrobiotic and Foreign body type
Granulomata;

No tumor seen.

D. Right pelvic peritoneum, biopsy:

1) Residual serous Adenocarcinoma, two microfoci, see comment.
2)Necrobiotic and Foreign body type Granulomata

E. Peri—umbilical, biopsy: No tumor seen.

F. Skin, incision, biopsy: No tumor seen.

G. Left pelvic peritoneum, biopsy: No tumor seen.

H. Right gutter, biopsy: No tumor seen.

I. Left lower quadrant, biopsy: Lymph node; No tumor seen.

J. Left gutter, biopsy: Foreign body type Granulomata; No tumor seen.

K. Peri~umbilical, biopsy: Foreign body type Granulomata; No tumor seen.

L. Diaphragm adhesion, biopsy: Reactive mesothelial hyperplasia, no tumor seen.
M. Omentum, biopsy: Necrobiotic and Foreign body type Granulomata; No tumor
seen.

N. Small bowel adhesion, biopsy: No tumor seen.

0. Vaginal cuff, biopsy: No tumor seen.

P. Anterior abdominal wall, biopsy: Reactive mesothelial hyperplasia, no tumor
seen.

7of7

