\ Surgical Pathology Report

 

Name: 4—- c... #: -

DOB: .( _ . Collected:

Gender: F Received:

MRN: — Reported: I
Location: Copy To:

Physician: ‘ '

 

   
 
    

Pa ol ic nte region;

A. Sentinel node #1 ( )right FS: /c A , a , 3
- Metastatic carcinoma into one lymph node (1/1) W, "LN/m0, W My; fies/3
B. Sentinel node #2i )FS: 54‘, v. M m; 654 . 7 3/12/11 A

- Metastatic carcinoma into theree out of four lymph nodes (3/4)

C. Sentinel node #3( } FS:
- Ono benign lymph node (0/1)

D. ﬂightlireast lumpectomy. long - lateral. short - superior.
- In situ and imﬂmma
- The entire tumor mass measures 2.3 cm In greatest dimensions

- The invasive component represents the majority of the tumor mass and is of Nottingham grade of 3 +3 +3=9l9
- Poet of vascular invasion are noted

- The in-situ component Is of ductal type. high nuclear grade with central necrosis and caiciiications (comedocarclna the)

- All margins of resection appear tree of invasive and intraductal carcinoma
- The closest margins of resection are the medial and anterior at 4 mm from the tumor

- The non-neoplastic breast tissue shows iibroproliferative disease. radial scar. atypical ductal hyperplasia and chan yes consistent

with previous biopsy site

D. Right axillary content:
- Metastatic carcinoma into six out of twenty-titre lymph nodes (8/23)

E. Level 3 (right) permanent:

 

- Metastatic carcinoma into one out of (hm Imh nodes (1/3) UUID:AEGCSIEF-017E-4F53-968C-804110F9A7E6

TCGA-Ew-A1P1-a1A-PR

Tumor Summary: I“
Specimen Type Lumpeciomy |||
Ill

Specimen Size (for excisions less than total mastectomy): 6 cm in greatest dimensions

ii iii
Lymph Node Sampling: Axillary dissection

Laterality: Right!

Tumor Site: Not speciﬁed

Size of Invasive Component: 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions

Histologic Type: Ductal

Histologic Grads (any grading system may be used; mitotic count is also required Independent of the grading system)
Total Nottingham Score:9/9

Margins: Free

Pathologlc Staging (pTNM)
pT 2, N3. MX

Redacted
||||||||||

3 +3 +3=9l9

 

1—5;.- suacrcn mm mm

NOT E:
IDS-ER.

 

Still! Immunrhrerirul antibodin arr and)" will: mm: (ISRJ) wilds/ed by our laboratory. flint ASK: rm clinitalbr wow Indra! ital do not require FDA we . new clone: on used:
ng oM-PR. AMI-HER: H~I I-EGFR. All tenant/1mm! mm m and with [om/In or mknrlarﬂxed. We alibi-dried m Dmrdon I: by Envision Method. mudtr cursed by l

parka/01m u pour/vs or negative. ,

Intraoperative Consultation

A. Sentinel node #1 (. , right FS: Metastatic adenocarclnoma to one lymph node (1/1).

8. Sentinel node #2 ( i F8: Metastatic adenocsrcinoma to three of four lymph nodes (3/4).
C. Sentinel node #3( )FS: One lymph node. no tumor seen (0/1).

Ci l 0

None provided

W .

Right breast lumpectomy with sentinel node biopsy, possible axillary node dissection: possible left breast reduction
P i Di n

Breast cancer

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Sentinel node #1 ul right FS

8: Sentinel node #2 (1 ) FS

C: Sentinel node #3 ( )FS

D: Right breast lumpectomy. long - lateral. short - superior
E: Right axillary content

F : Level 3 (right) permanent

A.

A: (Ire attending pathologist. I arrest that I: (i) Examined the re! t preparationﬂ)
for the specimen/r); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosism).

“Electronically Signed Out By‘"

  
 
  

 

Received fresh is an irregular fragment offlbroadlpose tissue. measuring 2.3 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. One lymph n is ill-

deﬁned. The lymph node is submitted in toto In one cassette for frozen section.

Received fresh Is an irregular fragment of ilbroadlpose tissue. measuring 3.2 x 1.7 x 0.9 cm. Four lymph
grossly identiﬁed. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto as follows:

1 One lymph node for frozen

2 Lymph node for frozen section.

SEN

Received fresh is an Irregular fragment of fibroadlpose tissue. measuring 1.9 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm. One lymph n
identiﬁed. The lymph node is submitted In toto in one cassette for frozen section.

Is grossly

Received in formalin is a lumpectomy specimen measuring 6 cm from medial to lateral, 5.4 cm from superior o inferior
and 4.4 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen has an ellipse of skin In the anterior surface measuring .8 x 0.9 cm.
The specimen is labelled as follows: long stitch lateral; short stitch superior. The margin is inked as follows: rlor
yellow. posterior black, superior blue. Inferior green. medial red. lateral orange. Upon sectioning lil-deilned ti white and

 

“- '_ i PageZof3

‘ﬁ SURGICAL PATHOI- Report

tan mass is identiﬁed measuring 2.3 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The mass is 1 cm from the lateral margin up to 1.6 cm m the
superior margin. 0.5 cm from the inferior margin. 0.5 cm from the posterior margin. 0.4 cm from the media margin and 0.4
cm from the anterior margin from the skin. Other areas of the mastectomy specimen show unremarkable broadlpose
tissue. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Lateral margin

Superior margin

Anterior margin and skin In relation with the tumor
Medial margin in relation with the tumor

Posterior margin in relation with the tumor

inferior margin In relation with the tumor

7-8 Other areas of the mass

 

OW‘WN-ﬁ

E. Received In formalin are multiple ineguler fragments of ﬂbroadlpose tissue measuring 9 x 7.5 x 2.2 cm In aggregate.
Five-w) possible lymph nodes are identified. The lymph nodes are submitted In toto—9 as follows:
1-2 One lymph node bisected per cassette
3-4 Lymph node bisected per cassette
5-6 Three lymph nodes bisected per c assette
7-8 Four lymph nodes per cassette

F. Received in formalin are four irregular fragments of soft tan brown and yellow tissue measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm in
aggregate. Submitted In toto in one cassette.

 

' Is
leviewer

m i i Page30f3

 

 

 

 

