SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-ldentified Specimen Code: -

Patient Age/Sex -/ M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: RIGHT UPPER LOBE WEDGE

Part B: RIGHT LOWER LOBE BRONCHIAL
MARGIN

Part 0: R9

Part D: RIGHT LOWER LOBE WEDGE
Part E: R~12

Part F: 4R

Part G: 7

Final Diagnosis

1. Right lung, upper lobe, wedge excision (A) - Adenocarcinoma with acinar, micropapillary, and
bronchioloaiveolar cell carcinoma components (see comment).

- Pulmonary parenohyma hamartoma.

- Centrilobular emphysema.

2. Right lung, lower lobe, lobectomy (B) - Adenocarcinoma, with acinar, solid, micropapillary, and
bronchloloalveolar cell carcinoma components (see comment).

— Centrilobular emphysema.

~ Peribronchial lymph nodes, negative for neoplasm.

3, Lymph nodes, R9, R12, 4R, #7, excision (C, E—G) ~ Lymph nodes, negative for neoplasm.

4. Right lung, lower lobe, wedge excision (D) — Centrilobular emphysema with focal organizing
pneumonia, chronic bronchiolitis and foreign body giant cell reaction consistent with chronic
aspiration.

- Focal atypical adenomatous hyperplasia.

 

Page 1 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:

Tumor Location: Right upper lobe
Tumor Size: 1.4 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm.
Vascular Invasion: Negative
Lymphatic invasion: present.
Bronchial Margin: Not applicable.
Vascular Margin: Not applicable.
Parenchymal Margins: Negative

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The tumor invades into the visceral pleura.

2.
Tumor Location: Right lower lobe

Tumor Size: 2.3 x 2.1 x 1.3 cm.

Vascular Invasion: Negative.

Lymphatic Invasion: present.

Bronchial Margin: Negative

Vascular Margin: Negative

Parenchymal Margins: Negative.

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative

Pathologic Stage (AJCC): The tumors are adenocarcinomas that show slight histologic different appearances.
However, both tumors are predominantly invasive and as they are within different pulmonary lobes they are
interpreted as p stage ilIA (T4 N0 MX).

Additional comment: EGFR mutation analysis will be performed and the results reported as an addendum.

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Adenocarcinoma.

Clinical Diagnosis:
R LL NODULE

 

Page 2 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "right upper lobe wedge" is a specimen consisting of a
wedge of lung measuring 10 x 4 x 2.5 cm, and weighing 20.3 grams. The pleural surface of the lung is
depressed and puckered by an underlying mass. Additionally there is an 11 cm staple line. There is a
white superficial nodule on the pleura measuring 0.7 x 0.7 cm. The large nodule underlying the pleural
puckering measures 1.4 x 1.2 x 1 cm. it is gray~brown~black and slightly lobular. it does appear to
invade the pleUra grossly. The nodule is 0.3 cm from the parenchymal margin. Sectioning of the
secondary superficial white nodule on the pleural surface does not reveal any invasion. The
parenchymal margin is inked orange, and the pleural surface is inked blue. Sections are submitted as
follows: A1 frozen section, A2 mass with greatest extent of pleural involvement, A3 large nodule
parenchymal margin, A4 additional small white nodule, A5 uninvolved lung parenchyma.

B. Received in formalin from the frozen desk labeled "right lower lobe" is a lung lobectomy specimen
measuring 15 x 10 x 2 cm, and weighing 141.4 grams. An unremarkable segment of bronchus
measuring 1.4 cm in diameter and 1.0 cm in length is identified. The pleural surface demonstrates a
puckered area measuring 2 x 2 cm which is inked blue. Also, identified is a previous wedge resection
staple line. it is removed and the wedge resection margin is inked orange. Sectioning reveals a
spiculated tan«gray firm nodule measuring 2.3 x 2.1 x 1.3 cm which extends within 5.4 cm of the
bronchial margin. It extends within 0.1 cm of the previous Wedge resection margin. The mass abuts and
retracts the overlying pleura. Central cavitation and focal anthracotic pigmentation are identiﬁed within
the mass. Additional mass lesions are not identified. The remaining parenchyma is tan-brown and
demonstrates mild atelectasis. Minimal lymph node tissue is identified. Representative sections are
submitted as follows: B1 bronchial margin for frozen section diagnosis, B2 vascular margin, B3-B4
mass with overlying pleura, 85-86 mass with previous wedge resection margin, 87—89 random sections
of mass, B10 uninvolved lung parenchyma adjacent to tumor, B11 uninvolved lung parenchyma faraway
from tumor, 812 lymph nodes.

C. Received fresh labeled is an irregular segment of tan—black soft tissue measuring 0.6 X 0.3 x
0.2 cm. Totally submitted In ormalin in cassette Ci.

D. Received fresh labeled "right lower lobe wedge" is a wedge of lung tissue measuring 6.2 x 5.5 x 1.2
cm, and weighs 6.4 grams. A staple line is present along two sides. The pleural surface demonstrates

a white fibrous area measuring 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The parenchyma is tan—brown and unremarkable. No mass
lesions are identified. The specimen is totally submitted as follows: Di-DZ pleural nodule, D3-D6
remainder of tissue.

E. Received fresh labeled-ls an irregular segment of tan~pink soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.9 x
0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in cassette E1.

F. Received fresh labeled .are two segments of yellow-black soft tissue aggregating to 0.7 x 0.4 x
0.2 cm. Totally submitted in formalin in cassette F1.

G. Received fresh labeled-is an irregular segment of red—black soft tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.2 X 0.5
cm. Totally submitted in formalin in cassette G1.

 

Page 3 of 3

