Department of Pathology

UUID:7F74C718-SBFD-466A-BB3F-8613587D92EC
TCGA-VD-ABKI-OlA-PR

' HMWMMWMMﬂ

Ul'll! No

 

SPECIMEN
Right eye (enucleation)
CLINICAL DETAILS

Right choroidal melanoma.
See diagram.

MACROECOPIC DESCRIPTION

An intact right eye.

mm
Page 1 0”
REPORT Ta:

 

Redacted
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmnml

Cllnlcal Consultant 3. Location

 

Sex u

 

 

 

 

 

This Copy For: ﬂ‘

Dimensions: Axial 24mm, Horizontal 24mm, Vertical 23mm

Cornea: Horizontal 12mm, Vertical 12mm

Optic nerve
Length 9mm, Diameter 4mm

Pupil: normal, regular

On description, on infero poetero is a dark pigmented nodule
??? 6mm x 4mm height (3mm from optic nerve).

0n trans—illumination, there is a dark shadow in ? side of
the globe — 22 x 21mm and developed in the optic nerve

insertion.
Plane of section: vertial

Intraooular description:

0n sectioning a dome shaped pigmented ohoroidal mass

measuring LED 15mm, height 12mm.

Tumour siz-
LBD 15mm, Height 12mm

MICROSCOPY

Hiatologically, the enucleated eye demonstrates a normal
anterior segment with an unremarkable cornea, a deep
anterior chamber and open angles. The iris leaves are
unremarkable. The ciliary muscles are moderately atrophic.

Reported: Pathologist:

Electronically Verlfled:

 

M

 

 

Department of Pathology Page 2 of 4
' ‘ ‘ . HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT Tel:
Surname Lab No Clinical Consultant 5 Locatlon
A F *
Forenamem DOBIAgo Sex - " ““1

 

‘

 

Unlt No Request Date

L__~— ”I

 

 

 

 

 

This Copy For: m

There is mild hyalinisation of the ciliary processes. The
lens shows moderately advanced cataractous changes.

In the posterior segment, at the level of the equator. a
choroidal melanoma can be seen. This is dome-shaped with a
large accompanying exudative retinal detachment. The retina
overlying the tumour is atrophic with degenerative changes,
and focally there is retinal invasion.

The tumour is partially pigmented and consists of a mixture ' . I'm'3513
of cells, both epithelioid and spindle cells, with a slight
dominance of the latter. The epithelioid cell component is
approx. 40%. The melanoma cells are immunoreactive for
MelanA, sox-1o and HSP-27 (score 2).

The number of mitoses is approx. 5/40 high power fields. The - » “m-~~
microvasculature of the melanoma is prominent, but closed

loops are not present in the tissue planes evaluated.

Occasional IIvascular lakes" can be observed; in these tumour

cells can be see located within the lumen. The lymphocytic

infiltrate within tumour is minimal. Macrophages are

scattered throughout the tumour in moderate density.

 

There is a large extraocular growth, which has arisen at two
sites, transclerally. These are 3mm and 1mm in diameter, '
respectively. The larger is encapsulated only by a very thin
layer of connective tissue.

The optic nerve is tumour free, and demonstrates mild
atrophic changes. The examined vortex veins are free of
tumour.

DIAGNOSIS

Choroidal melanoma of mixed cell type with extraocular V ‘ W
melanoma growth. "“H
commu- ‘
Molecular genetic examination of DNA extracted from the

tumour cells will be performed using multiplex—ligation '“'
dependent probe amplification lMLPA), looking at chromosomes

Reponad: Paﬂuﬂoght
Electronlcally Verified:

Prior

is
Reviewer Reviewed:

 

 

‘— l I l

