CGA - 66 - 2765

  

Material examined:

Left lower lobe, among others

Clinicai diagnosis and question

Space—occupying lesion left lower tube, with incipient coiliquation.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station ) left: 1.5 cm lesioned grayish—black node of ﬁrm
consistency, section surfaces dark.

2.) Lobar LN (station 12) upper lobe: 2.2 cm lesioned node with dark section surfaces.

3.) Left lower lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed reseoted lung tissue after removal of staple suture line measuring 10.5 x 7.5
cm at the base and up to 3 cm in length. A polar region of the pleura shows a lesion or residual adhesion. The
central region of the pleura shows a 2 cm area of whitish discoloration with unclear demarcation and a
depression—like puckering or retraction, under which there is a moderately solid, pale brownish—white tumor,
max. 3.8 cm in size, with relatively clear demarcation, extending to the pleura in the region of the retraction. In
the tumor there is an eccentric lacuna, max. 2.8 cm in size, of irregular shape traversed by trabeouiar structures.
Tumor distance from staple suture line at least 0.5 cm. Rest of parenchyma shows a pale subpleural seam up to
0.5 cm wide in parts with stight induration.

4.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8): 5 cm string-shaped node with some sun'ounding tissue, section surfaces
largely dark.

5.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3): 0.6 cm lesioned node with some surrounding tissue.

Examined:

l.) and 2.) Rapid section remains and residual material,

3.) 3 sections of tumor (partly with pleura and with color-marked resection surface after removal of staple
suture line, 2 sections with pale parenchyma,

4.) and 5. All material (in 4. lamellatcd),

10 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS.

Microscopy

Re 1.) and 2.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): lymph nodes with massive pigment
storage and inclusion of tiny anisotropic particles as well as ﬁbrosis of differing degrees, with hyaiine
thickening in 1.).

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisfdiagnoses:

Resected lung tissue shows peripheral focus of a poorly differentiated, predominantly large—cell and partly
clear—cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma with the formation of a large central lacuna.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Tumor-related chronic inﬂammation. Respiratory bronchiolitis with slight discontinuous very small focal
interstitial fibrosis. Emphysematous stromal remodeling of lung parenchyma with accentuation in the mantle
zone. Low-grade anthracotic pigment deposit in the lung parenchyma, local active chronic and ﬁbrosing
pleuritis over the tumor. Lymph nodes with marked anthracotic pigment deposit, plaque of a few tiny particles,
partly reactive follicular hyperplasia, partly small noduiar and extensive hyaline ﬁbrosis.

Remarldaddendum:

Since the large lacuna in the tumor is limited by the carcinomatous squamous epithelium, it is questionable
whether this arose as a result of tumor resorption. Alternatively there is the possibility of a carcinoma
developing in a peripheral bronehocele. On the assumption that this carcinoma is the primary focus and in view
of the size and the focal evidence showing minimal invasion of the overlying pleura, the tumor is classiﬁed as
pT2 pNOl R0, stage 113. C 34.3; M 8070.

 

