 

Back to List

 

R STATUS:Fma
FACILTTY: "
Patient:

Surgical Pathology SURGICAL P
soRsICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

  
  

Specimen(s) Received

A: Right lower lobe

8: Level 3 sub carinal lymph node
C: Level 4 lymph node peritoneal

Pathologic Diagnosis

A. Right lower lobe:

 

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade: Poorly differentiated
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.? cm ‘tv
Additional dimension: 3.3 cm
Specimen Type: Lobectomy
Extent of Invasion: Tumor is confined to the lung
Regional Lymph Nodes: Number involved: 0
Number examined: 13
Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Tumor does not extend to pleural surface.
Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.1cm.

Lymphovascular Invasion: Absant
Venous invasion: Absent
Arterial invasion: Absent

"A“ — Lung, ri lewerelobe+_lo ctomy: Grade 3
adenocarcinoma (3.7 cm), subpleural in location, benign bronchial

- n M _ WW
resection margin and 13 benign regional—lympn"n es including 2

subpleurai nodes'and 2 nodes loose in the container.
”B" ~ Lymph nodes, level 7 subcarinal, biopsy: {32’

Metastatic poorly-differentiated carcinoma (0.7 cm) to one of
nine lymph nodes (extranodal extension is not identified).

"C" - ' Lymph node, level 4, biopsy: Three benign lymph nodes.
PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT2 pN2 pMX

NOTE: information on pathology stage and the operative procedure

- {aim—U ' _

 

 

Page 2 of3

is transmitted to this institution’ 5 Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Pathology stage
is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is
only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.

The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon‘ s
operative report.

 

Clinical History
Right posterior lung mass.
Intraoperative Consultation

A._ Right lower lobe: Bronchial margin negative. (microscopic

frozen section).
;

Gross Description

A: Received fresh for frozen section labeled ”right lower lobe"
is a 197 gram (post fixation weight), 15 x 12.5 x 4 cm lobe of
lung. The bronchial margin is removed and frozen as "ES-Al". The
frozen section remnant is submitted as “A1". Received with the
lung are two separate lymph nodes, each 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. These detached lymph nodes are submitted intact as
”A2”. The pleura of the lung is tan—brown and focally retracted.
The retracted pleura is inked blue. Underlying the retracted
pleura is a slightly soft white—gray 3.7 x 3.3 x 2.2 cm mass
which comes to within approximately 4.5 cm of the bronchial
margin. The remaining pleura demonstrates a moderate amount of
anthracotic mottling. There are two potential subpleural lymph
nodes identified between the mass and the bronchial margin.
There are multiple lymph nodes identified near the bronchial
margin within the parenchyma. Sectioning through the remaining
specimen demonstrates soft tan—pink crepitus parenohyma with no
additional masses or lesions identified. "A3 and A4" — mass with
relationship to retracted pleura, "A5" — mass with relationship
to adjacent parenchyma. "A6” - four potential intraparenchymal
lymph nodes, "A7" — grossly unremarkable parenchyma greater than
2 cm from mass, ”A8” — two intact potential subpleural lymph
nodes, “A9 and A10" — vascular margins and intact potential lymph
nodes and parenchyma surrounding bronchial vascular margins.
8: Received in formalin labeled "level 7 subcarinal lymph
node" is a 3 x 3 x 1.5 cm aggregate of multiple matted gray—black
lymph nodes with a small amount of attached adipose tissue.
"Bl" — seven intact potential lymph nodes, ”82“ — two bisected
lymph nodes (one blue, one black).
C: Received in formalin labeled "level 4 paratracheal" is a 1.7
x 1.3 x 0.3 cm aggregate of gray—black lymph nodes and adipose

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic

 

 

