 

Right hemiglossectomy, with frozen section:
Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, invasive to depth of 3 cm
extending to the inked deep margin.
Definite angiolymphatic invasion is not identified.
The posterior margin is greater than 2 cm from the tumor.
The medial margin is 0.5 cm from the tumor (measured from the glass slide).

New deep margin, with OR consultation:
No tumor identified.

Level 1b:
Submandibular gland with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

Level 1a:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in one (1 ) of the three (3) lymph nodes.
The carcinoma is intranodal and measures approximately 0.2 mm in greatest
dimension.

Level 2a lymph nodes:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in one (1) of nine (9) lymph nodes.
The tumor is intranodal and measures approximately 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension.

Level 3 nodes:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in one (1) of nine (9) lymph nodes.
The tumor is intranodal and measures approximately 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension.

AJCC pathologic stage T2,N2.

 

Clinical Information

Right tongue squamous cell carcinoma.

     

  

rozen BC Ion

history: Tongue cancer.

mgnosrs

Specimens: 1) Right hemiglossectomy
2) New deep margin

Gross: 1) Right hemiglossectomy measuring 7.1 x 4.0 X 3.0 cm. Deep margin is inked black and medial margin inked
blue. Specimen is sectioned revealing a tan-white ﬁrm tumor measuring 3.0x 2.7 x 1.7 cm. The tumor grossly
abuts the deep margin and is grossly located 2 mm from the medial margin. Representative sections of the
margins are submitted as follows (all perpendicular): FSA1&A2 = deep margin; FSA3 and A4 = medial.

2) Portion of tissue with one surface designated as the new margin by the surgeon. The true new deep margin is
inked black.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
Right hemiglossectomy (FSA1-A4):

Deep margin focally involved by carcinoma.
Medial margin free of tumor on frozensection-

Gross Description

Received are frozen section control tissue specimens labeled "FSA1". "FSAZ", FSA3". and "FSA4". All tissue is submitted.

"NFSA." The specimen consists of a hemiglossectomy measuring 7.1 x 4 X 3 cm. The deep surgical margin has been
previously inked black and the medial margin blue. The specimen has been partially sectioned and there is a tan—white ﬁrm
tumor measuring 3 x 2.7 x 1.7 cm. The tumor abuts the deep surgical margin. On the surface of the tongue on the deep
lateral aspect, there is an ill—deﬁned white mildly nodular area measuring 2 x 0.5 cm. "A1-3." additional sections of tumor with
deep surgical margin: "A4-5." representative sections with medial surgical margin; "A6," representative section posterior deep
surgical margin.

' The specimen consists of a soft brown fragment of tissue measuring 2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The new true deep margin has
been previously inked black. The specimen is submitted in toto in "B".

"C, Level 18." The specimen consists of a 14 gram, 5 x 3 x 1.7 cm brown-tan encapsulated lobulated fragment of soft tissue.
The cut surface is brown-tan and lobulated. No cysts or masses are noted. "01-2," representative.

"O, Level 1A." The specimen consists of a 3.4 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm fragment of fatwith three lymph nodes recovered, the largest
measuring 0.8 cm. The cut surfaces are tan to white. "D." 3p, representative.

"E, Right Level 2A." The specimen consists of an irregular fragment of fat and soft connective tissue measuring 5 cm in
greatest dimension. On sectioning. nine possible lymph nodes are recovered having tan to solid white cut surfaces. The
largest lymph node measures 2 cm. "E1-2," representative.

"F, Level 3." The specimen consists of a 3.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm fragment of fat. On sectioning, nine possible lymph nodes are
recovered ranging from tan to white and ﬁrm. The largest lymph node measures 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. "F1-2."

repres entative—

