UUID:E5038F61-E948-417F-A536-2C887A802301
TcsA—VI-Asz-I-eIA-PR Rﬁlrljlﬁilted

( ~ Illl

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

0'5

ICED
W ”WEED/«5

”‘ sum WW Mos aw:
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS 94M) , 1 23; ,1,

A. Anterior prostatic fat, resection: Benign adipose tissue; no carcinoma or prostatic
epithelium.

B. Tissue anterior to seminal vesicles, excision: Focal crushed cells positive for
keratin, su5picious for carcinoma; see comment.

C. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor in six lymph nodes (0/6).
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor in four lymph nodes (0/4).

E. Prostate and seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy:

1. Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 5+4=9, invading into bilateral seminal
vesicles; see comment.

2. Focal crushed cells weakly positive for keratin at bladder margin; see comment.

COMMENT:

Part B, the "tissue anterior to seminal vesicle", demonstrates a small focus of crushed cells within
collagenous stroma at the black-inked edge of the specimen. Immunohistochemical stain for
pancytokeratin on block Bl was performed and highlights these cells, supporting that they represent
epithelial cells. However, the cytomorphology is too hampered by crush artifact to determine whether
these are benign or malignant epithelial cells. The overall architectural pattern appears infiltrative, and
therefore, su5picious for carcinoma, although deﬁnitive diagnosis cannot be rendered.

Similarly, the right bladder margin (slide 515) demonstrates a small focus of crushed/cauterized cells at
the inked margin, directly adjacent to deeper bona fide tumor cells. Immunohistochemical stain for
pancytokeratin on block E15 was performed , which is strongly positive in the tumor cells but weakly
positive in the crushed/cauterized cells. These ﬁndings are equivocal for the presence of tumor cells at
the bladder margin.

Synoptic Comment for Prostate Tumors

 

 

- Type of tumor: Small acinar adenocarcinoma.
- Location of tumor:
- Left apex (slide E2).
- Left posterior mid gland (slides E9- -.E11)
- Left anterior mid gland (slides E12- -E14).
- Right posterior mid gland (slides E6-E8).
- Right anterior mid gland (slides E3-E5).
- Right base (slide E15).
- Estimated volume of tumor: 9.3 cubic cm.
- Gleason score: 5+4-9.
- Estimated volume > Gleason pattern 3: Approximately 95%.
- Involvement of capsule: Tumor invades capsule (slides E5-E11).
- Extraprostatic extension: Present, extensive (slides E7-E8, E11. E17—EIB).
- Margin status for tumor: Equivocal; see comment above.
- Margin status for benign prostate glands: No benign glands present at inked excision margins.
- High-grade prostatlc intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN): Present; extensive.
- Tumor involvement of seminal vesicle: Present; both sides.
- Perlneural inﬁltration: Present.
- Lymphovascular Invasion: Present.
- Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 10.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pTBbNO.

Specimen(s) Received

AzAnterior prostatic fat

B:Tissue anterior to seminal vesicles
C:Right pelvic lymph nodes

D:Left pelvic lymph nodes

EzProstate and seminal vesicles (fresh)

Clinical History

The patient is 3 year-old man with a history of prostate cancer, Gleason score S+4=9, who now
undergoes prostatectomy.

Gross Description
The case is received in five parts, labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.

Part A is received in formalin and additionally labeled “anterior prostatic fat,” and consists of multiple,
irregular, unoriented fragments of brown-yellow, soft fatty tissue (4.2 x 3.4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate).

One lymph node is identified in the specimen and is submitted with a representative sections of the fat
in cassette A1.

Part B is received in formalin and additionally labeled “tissue anterior to seminal vesicle," and consists
of a 1 x 1 x 0.4 cm, brown-tan, rubbery, irregular unoriented fragment of tissue. It is inked black,
serially sectioned, and entirely submitted in cassette 81.

Part C is received in formalin and additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," and consists of
multiple, irregular, unorientecl fragments of yellow’brown, soft, fatty tissue (4.2 x 3 x 1.4 cm in

aggregate). Multiple candidate lymph nodes are identified and the entire specimen is Submitted as
follow:

C1: One lymph node, bisected.

(:2: Multiple candidate lymph nodes.
C3-C4:Remaining tissue.

Part D is received in formalin and additionally labeled “left pelvic lymph nodes,'? and consists of a

.’....

single, irregular, unoriented fragment of yellow-brown, soft, fatt tissue 5 x

candidate lymph nodes are identified and the entire specimen isgubmittéd ”Bagels-cm Multiple
01: . One lymph node, bisected. I

D2: Multiple candidate lymph nodes.

DB: Remaining tissue. 5 '

 

Part E is received fresh, labeled "prostate and seminal vesicles " and consists of a a re
attached seminal vesicles (55 gm; 3.5 cm from apex to base x’4.5 cm in width x 3.6pcnftl?rf;1“gme ‘
posterior) and seminal vesicle/vas deferens bundles (right 4.8 x 2.4 x 1.2 cm; left 4.5 x 1.9 x O 8 (2:1).“

GROSS ABNORMALITIES: The posterior mid gland and posterior area near the base

yellow-tan lobulated parenchyma. There is a 0.5 cm tan nodule on the left anterior are firm With

mid gland (slide 2).

The remaining prostate is yellow-tan and homogeneous. The anterior ﬁbrous strom
remaining capsule contains plastic Surgical clips on the right and left seminal vesicl
bladder margin.

a is open,- the
es and right lateral

ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks.

INKING: Anterior right green, anterior left blue, posterior black.
POTENTIAL STUDIES: Snap-frozen taken.

TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: 4.

AVERAGE SLICE THICKNESS: 0.4 cm.

CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Apical margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections

E1: Right apex.
EZ: Left apex.

Right anterior quadrant

E3: Slice 2.

E4: Slice 3.

E5: Slice 4.

Right posterior quadrant

E5: Slice 2.

E7: Slice 3.

E8: Slice 4.

Left posterior quadrant

E9: Slice 2.

E10: Slice 3.

E11: Slice 4.

Left anterior quadrant

E12: Slice 2.

E13: Slice 3.

E14: Slice 4.

Bladder margins, entirely submitted in perpendicular sections
E15: Right.

E16: Left.

Prostatic/seminal vesicle junction and cross-section of vas deferens
E17: Right.

E18: Left.

Electronically

 

 

