UUID: 6EEF1F11- 603E- 4196- 91AB- -724BBEER2BECE7ac
TCGA- EN- ASSB- 01A- PR

Surgical Pathology Report

 

Name:
DOB:
Gender:
MRN:
Location:

Physician:

xxxx Case #: X
Collected:

F Received: x

x Reported: x

x . .

x

 

Pathologic Interpretation:

A. LEFT AXILLARY # 1

Negative for carcinoma, four lymph nodes examined (0/4).

Keratin immunostain Is pending.

B. LEFT AXILLARY, , PALPABLE.’

Negative for carcinoma, four lymph nodes examined (0/4).

Keratin immunostain is pending.

C. LEFT SEGMENTAL MASTECTOMY:

INVASIVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA, poorly differentiated Nottingham grade 3 (3+3+3= 9) 3.1 cm in greatest

dimension.

lmmunohistochemical studies performed on previous biopsy showed the following results:

Estrogen Receptor: NEGATIVE (< 1%)

Progesterone Receptor. NEGATIVE (< 1%)

Her2/neu
NEGATIVE (O)
Androgen Receptor: NEGATIVE
EGF R: POSITIVE
GCDFP: NEGATIVE
HLA-DR: lmmunohistochemistry is pending

Skin is uninvolved by tumor.

Resection margins are uninvolved by Invasive carcinoma; the tumor Is at less than 1 mm from the deep
resection margin

Negative for lymphatic space invasion.

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY

Procedure
Excision without wire-guided localization
Lymph Node
Sentinel lymph node(s)
Specimen Laterality
Left
Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma
Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise speciﬁed)
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma
Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion >1 mm: 31 mm
Histologlc Grade: Nottingham Histologlc Score
Glandular (Acinar)! lubular Differentiation
Score 3'. <10% of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomgrphism
. Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, eXhibiting marked variation in size and
shape, occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
Mitgtic Rate
Score 3 (28 mitoses per mmz) (see Table 1)
Oveggll Grade
Grade 3: scores of 8 or 9
Tumor Focality
Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
Ductal Carcinoma In Sltu (DCIS)
No DCIS is present
Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (LCIS)
Not identiﬁed
Margins
Invasive Carcinoma
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1 mm
Specify margin: Deep
Lymph Nodes
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 8
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 0
Number of lymph nodes without tumor cells identiﬁed: 8
Methgg gf Evaluag'gn of Sentinel Lymph Nodeg
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). 1 level
Immunohistochemistry
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurglcal (Neoadluvant) Therapy
In the reast
No known presurgical therapy
In the Lymph Nodes
No known presurgical therapy
Lymph—Vascular Invasion
Not identiﬁed
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion
Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Staging (based on information available to the pathologist) (pTNM)

Primary Tumor (Invasive Carcinoma) (pT)
pT2'. Tumor >20 mm but 550 mm in greatest dimension

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis identiﬁed histologically

Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

Ancillary Studies

Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen (accession number): XXX

Estrogen Receptor (ER)

Results and interpretation:
Negative (<1% of tumor cells with nuclear positivity)

Prpgpsterone Receptor (PgR)

Results and interpretation:
Negative (<1% of tumor cells with nuclear positivity)

HERZ Immunoperoxidgpe Studies

Results:
Negative (Score 0)

AJCC Classiﬁcation (7m edition): pT2, pNO, pMn/a

ProcedureslAddenda:

Addendum Date Ordered: Status:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

Addendum Diagnosis
A. LEFT AXILLARY #1
Keratin immunohistochemistry is negative.
B. LEFT AXILLARY, PALPABLE:
Keratin immunohistochemistry is negative.
Final AJCC Classiﬁcation (7m edition): pT2 (sn)N0(i -) Mn/a
Addpndum Diagnosis
ADDENDUM C:
lmmunohistochemistry for HLA-DR is positive in tumoral cells.

This neoplasm is consistent with an invasive ductal carcinoma. medullary type.

lntraoperative Consultation:

A. Left axillary #1, . FS: No malignancy seen

B. Left axillary . palpable, FSt-3: No malignancy seen.

 

Clinical Histog:

Patient with palpable breast cancer, please evaluate margins and lymph nodes.

Operation Performed:
Left segmental mastectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy, possible axillary node dissection

Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Carcinoma left breast

Specimen(s) Receivelerocessing Information:
Fee Codes:

 

 

A: LEFT AXILLARY # 1 FS Frozen section x 1, FS Perm x 1, Touch Prep
Histology x 1, FSDeep 1 x 1, Cytokeratin Cocktail (KER) x 1, H&E, Initial x 1

F???

3: LEFT AXILLARY. , PALPABLE FS Frozen section x 1, FS Penn x 1, Touch
Prep Histologyx 1, Cytokeratin Cocktail (KER) x 1, Frozen section x 1, FS Perm x 1, _
Cytokeratin Cocktail (KER) x 1, Frozen section x 1, FS Perm x 1, Cytokeratin Cocktail (KER) x C-
1, H&E, Initial x 1, Cytokeratin Cock

C: LEFT SEGMENTAL MASTECTOMY (1 SUTURE -SUPE|OR, 2 SUTURES - MEDIAL)
H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initialx
1, H&E, Initial x 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E, Initial x 1, HLA-DR (1P) x 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E,
lnitialx 1, H&E, lnitialx 1, H&E, Initialx 1, H&E,

 

 

 

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh labeled "Left axillary #1, , FS" is a fragment of adipose tissue that measures 5 x 4 x 2 cm.
There are four palpable lymph nodes present. The lymph nodes are bisected and submitted for frozen section
(cassette #1FS). Representative sections of the remaining adipose tissue are submitted in cassette #2.

B.Received fresh labeled “Left axillary , palpable, FS" is a fragment of adipose tissue that measures 4 x 4 x
2 cm. There are four palpable lymph nodes present. The lymph nodes are bisected and submitted for frozen section
in cassettes #1 -3FS. The rest of the specimen is submitted in cassettes #4-8.

C.Received in formalin labeled “Left segmental mastectomy (1 suture -superior. 2 sutures ~medial)“ is a lumpectomy
specimen weighing 120 grams and measuring 9 x8 x 3.5 cm, with an unremarkable dark skin ellipse measuring

3.3 x 1.3 cm. The specimen is inked as follows: superior-blue, inferior-green, anterior—yellow, deep-black, medial-
red, lateral-orange. Upon sectioning, there is a 3.1 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm well circumscribed. nodular tumor, white-tan, with
an elastic consistency and central cavity. A metallic clip Is identiﬁed in the central of the tumor. The tumor is grossly
at less than 0.1 cm from the deep margin, 0.4 cm from the superior margin, 1.0 cm from the lateral margin. 2.0 cm
from the medial margin, 2.5 cm from the anterior and skin margin, 4.0 cm from the inferior margin. The rest of the
specimen has a cut surface, yellow-tan and homogeneous. Cassettes are submitted as follows:

Cassette #1 Tumor in relation with deep and superior margins
Cassette #2 Medial margin

Cassette #3 Lateral margin

Cassette #4 Anterior margin (and skin)

Cassette #5 Inferior margin

Cassette #6 Area of tumor with clip

Cassettes 1178.8 Composite section of the tumor
Cassettes #9—1 2 Additional sections of the tumor
Cassettes #13-15 Representative sections of the rest of specimen

 

