 
  

EBA-444651

 

SPECIMEN
A. Left upper lobe wedge
B. Lymph node level 5

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer/breast cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
Lung, left upper lobe, wedge biopsy: Adenocarcinoma. -

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left upper
lobe wedge” and consists of a pink and red lung resection
specimen measuring 14.4 x 10 x 2.5 cm. There is a slight area of
thickening in the central'portion of the specimen that is about 1.5
cm in greatest dimension by external palpation. On cut section the
central tumor measures 1.5 cm in diameter. Portions of the tumor
are taken for research purposes. The margin of resection is
grossly
free of the disease. A portion of the tumor is taken for frozen
section diagnosis. Additional sections after fixation. RS—7

B. The specimen is received in formalin labeled "lymph
node level 5" and consists of multiple pieces of black
soft
tissue measuring 1 cm in greatest aggregate dimension. Aswl.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A.

Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma with focal lepidic growth

pattern.

Tumor grade: 1—2 out of 3

Mitotic Index: 0 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.19 sq mm)

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Tumor size: 1.5 cm.

Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
Pleura: Pleural elastosis. Negative for malignancy.
Vascular invasion: Absent

pTNM Stage: T1 N0

Non—tumorous lung: Unremarkable.

Antibody Results Comment

TTF—l Positive Compatible with lung primary
BRST—Z Negative

ER Negative

PR Negative

Paraffin sections; 10% neutral buffered formalin

{A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified

as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.}
B. Portions of the lymph node are negative for
malignancy.
4, 3, 14, 20x4
IHC stains added, as shown above, after discussion with I.
DIAGNOSIS

A. Lung, left upper lobe, excisional biopsy:
Well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
B. Lymph node is ' ' alignancy.

   

