l
l

l
l
l

UUID : FAESBEQB-F785-4604-9063-395AA55C054D

l
l
l

 

 

 

 

CLINICAL NOTES:
Recurrent melanoma Rt axilla. Ht posterior thorax.
The specimen was received fresh for tumour banking (largest node sampled).

MACROSCOPIC:

A) ‘Wide local excision melanoma short superior. long lateral'. The specimen
consists of an ellipse of skin 165 x 40mm to a depth of 25mm. There is short
stitch indicating superior and designated 12 o'clock and a long stitch

indicating lateral designated 9 o'clock. The 12 o'clock half inked blue. 6
o'clock black. There is a curvilinear scar 70mm in length and an area of
puckering 25mm inferior to the scar. There is a bluish black raised nodule
within the area of puckerlng 3 x 3mm. The scar and the nodule are well away
from the lateral resection margin, 40 and 75mm away. Sectioning reveals a well
circumscribed pinkish tan nodule with a blackened centre 18 x 13 x 10mm lnth e
subcutls lying 15mm from the lateral resection margin and well away from the
medial resection margin. it is 12mm from superior resection margin and 20mm
from the inferior resection margin.

Blocks 1 to 5: Scar including superficial nodule in blocks 2 and 4

Blocks 6 and 7: Subcutaneous nodule with lateral resection margin

Blocks 8 to 10: Subcutaneous nodule under skin near lateral resection margin
B) ‘Posterlor lateral margin’. The specimen consists of fibrofatty tissue 45 x

22 x 1 0mm. Representative sections in two blocks.

C) 'Nodule from right latlsslmus dorsi muscle’. The specimen consists of
librofatty tissue 53 x 20 x 15mm. The cut surface shows a tan nodule 6mm.
Representative sections in four blocks.

D) 'Nodule right breast 10 o'clock'. The Specimen consists of a nodule of
yellowish tan tissue partly covered by skin 8 x 5 x 4mm. All embedded in one
block.

E) 'Nodule right breast 12 o'clock’. The specimen consists of a piece of
fibrofatty tissue partly covered by skin 5 x 5 x 4mm. All embedded in one
block.

MlCHOSCOPlC:

A) The sections show skin and underlying subcutis. There are a total of six
separate nodules of malignant melanoma. The tumour nodules are composed of
large, epithelioid cells with ample cytoplasm and pieomorphic nuclei. Some

cells contain melanin pigment. The largest deposit is 15mm in diameter and lies
in the subcutaneous fat. Another three nodules of subcutaneous melanoma are
present ranging lrom 0.5mm up to 10mm across. The largest of these appears to

 

.thalcgy Manapcm.

(I
o\

cu-

NA’

TCGA-EE-AZMQ-BSA-PR Redacted
"MWHMWHMWHWHHMMIMWHHHH
MWWWWMMWMMI ‘ “"

l lllllllllllllllllllllill illlllllllllllllllllllillllli lllll BNWWW j
_. ' ' ‘ 003: I
Deliver To: ~ - Sex: F

Ward:
Received _ Lab No»
SPECIMEN TYPE: Axilla Biopsy No:

0’3

W M“ 9720/;

E!“

(Chi ﬁnal (mic, mar/a,

(1773

M

J/QV/II

<QOPOIﬁ>v04m-I

 

 

<QOPOIH>U r>o—§oq>z>

 

 

Requesting Doctor's Information: Patient Details;

008: _,
_. -- Sex: F

 

Deliver To:

Ward :

 

 

 

 

Received

SPECIMEN TYPE: Axilla Biopsy No:

replace a lymph node. and is present at the deep margin of excision (In the 9
o’clock part of the specimen, adjacent to the lateral stitch). Two dermal

nodules of melanoma are present near an area of scarring. There is no epidermal
abnormality. The tumour cells stain positively with 5100 and show patchy
positivity with HMB45. They are negative for MelanA and pan-cytokeratin.

B) The sections show subcutaneous adipose tissue with no evidence of
malignancy.

C) The sections show skeletal muscle. nerves and lat with a single lymph node.
The lymph node shows partial replacement by a 5mm deposit of metastatic
melanoma (1/1). The melanoma appears excised by 0.2mm. There is no direct
involvement oi the skeletal muscle.

D) The section shows skin with subcutis. The skin is vaguely polypold. This may
represent a iibroepithelial polyp (skin tag). There is no evidence. of

malignancy.

E) The section shows skin with subcutis with a polypoid area suggestive of a
fibroepitheliai polyp (skin tag). There is no evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY:

A) Skin right axilla: Dermal and subcutaneous recurrent melanoma. One lymph
node involved. Focal involvement of deep lateral margin.

B) Posterior lateral margin: No evidence of malignancy. .

C) Nodule from right latissimus dorsi muscle: Metastatic melanoma in one lymph
node.

D) Nodule right breast 10 o'clock: Favour fibroepltheilal polyp.

E) Nodule right breast 12 o'clock: Favour fibroepithelial polyp.

REPORTING PATHOLOGIST:
(Electronic Signature)

 

to
air
57

i Page 2 of 2 1

 

 

 

I Management 4

I Where ’Collected" a _

 

<QOT‘OI-l>'UO-IUJ—I

<QOr'OI-l>'u l">O-§O-I>Z>

