UUID: FSEBDFEE- BBEZ- 4852- 964D- EASEBDERFBeBZBac
TCGA- DH- A7UR- 01A- PR

ICE ,0, 3

llll'llllllllllllllllllllllllllll'lll'll'llll'lllllll'll"' (3meij

Surgical Pathology Consultation / Department of Pathology

Case Type:

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED/ PROCEDURES ORDERED:

A. Brain tumor A. Frozen Section Charge
B. Brain tumor 8. Kl-67, Nuclear Antigen, Mibl
B. Glial Fibrill. Acid Prt B. 1P19q Malignant Glioma Anaysis

B. 1P19q Malignant Glioma Analysis, add x 3
CLINICAL HISTORY: old female with severe head pain , CT and
MRI were done; revealed right medial frontal lobe lesion consistent with
a low grade brain tumor.
GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimens in the
, labeled with the patient‘s name and hospital #:

A. Brain tumor

B. Brain tumor
A. The specimen is received fresh designated "brain tumor" and consists
of a 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm portion of tan to beige soft tissue pieces. A
representative portion is submitted for frozen section. Frozen section
diagnosis is "lnfiltrating glioma with oligodendroglioma-like features"
per The frozen tissue is submitted in cassette FSAl. The
remaining tissue is submitted in cassette A2.
B. The specimen is received fresh designated "brain tumor" and consists
of a 1.9 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm beige to gray-tan soft tissue pieces. A

representative portion is submitted to the and the

Set; W,meﬂ,m3

Q 7/.(3

%\ A155

Q 7/. 7
qt.) /o/4/!5

PIA/ﬁgs
No mum on W 5W“

9* i‘wllmut M SUN ““11
gm

remaining tissue is submitted in cassette B1.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. "Brain tumor":
Anaplastic oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade lll)
B. "Brain tumor":

Anaplastic oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade III) (see comment)
COMMENT: This highly infiltrative glioma shows an overall uniform
histology with tumor cells having classic perinuclear haloes and
chicken-wire-Iike background capillaries. There are also areas of
increased cellularity with mitoses. The tumor extensively infiltrates
the cerebral cortex with prominent subpial and perineuronal accumulations
of neoplastic cells. The Ki—67 labeling index is 15-20%. A few
scattered cells are immunoreactive for GFAP while the majority of the
tumor is negative. These results support the diagnosis. Molecular
analysis for chromosomes 1p and 19q will be performed and reported as an
addendum to this report.

"I, or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination and
description and l have personally reviewed the gross description and
specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this
report."

Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance
characteristics determined by Some tests
have not been cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug
Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not

necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes and should not be

regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified

under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as

qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Pathologist

  
   
 
  

fem. ﬁJﬁf/Lim...

DiagnbsIsDiSCrepanrv
. / ~— “in -_ -W.~,‘
Salim/revved. Eli“ ..

primary Tumor Site Disuepancy
‘ U
FER _ _ , w
__ ‘_ T—‘T‘ “'1— a...»

  
  
 

 
 
  
   
 

  

HIMA Discrepancy

l'riur Malignrncv History
, Dual/Synchronous Primary r‘
Case is (circle):

 
   
  

   
 

 

   

Reviewer Initlais

 

