UUID:19780473-CA80-4C15-A155-37ODSEERSSe754a
TCGA-- 38- ASHT- OlA- PR
II”
II"
llll

Ill|I|II|IIII|I||I|I||||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIR III IIIIICIIE'3|

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||III||||||I||II|IIIIIIIIIIII eml

IIIII IllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII
W

Final Diagnosis

TONGUE RIGHT GLOSSECTOMY:

Highvgrade ieiomyosarcoma 4 ill cm in greatest dimension (see comment).
No Iymphovascular space invasion identiﬁed.

One subglossai lymph node, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

Ali final margins are free of tumor (see parts B-G).

Adjacent squamous mucosa with mitd dysplasia.

DORSAL TONGUE, EXCISION:
Squamous mucosa, negative for malignancy.

VENTRAL TONGUE MARGIN, EXCISION:
Squamous mucosa, negative for malignancy.

FLOOR OF MOUTH MARGEN, EXCISION:
Squamous mucosa and saiivary gland tissue, negative for malignancy.

POSTERIOR TONGUE MARGIN, EXCESION:
Squamous mucosa, salivary gland tissue, and skeletal muscle, negative for malignancy.

DEEP TONGUE POSTERIOR MARGIN, EXCiSION:
Skeletal muscie. negative for malignancy.

ANTERIOR DEEP TONGUE, EXCISION:
Skeietal muscie, negative for malignancy.

NECK DISSECTION, REGHT, LEVELS 2-4:

Forty four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/44).
Submandibular gland. free of tumor.

FLOOR 0F MOUTH:

Squamous mucosa and underlying salivary giand tissue, sketetal muscle and adipose
tissue, free of tumor.

TOOTH‘ REMOVAL:
Three fragments of teeth (gross diagnosis only)

IZ’D—O 3
money/WWW NOS BSQOL'S

$411 W; was dog?

9%) 4/32)”,

I the attending pathologist personally reviewed the entire
case and rendered the final diagnosis Electronically Signed out: by

Comment

Histoiogic sections of the tumor in the tight show a high grade, spindle cell malignancy.
Immunohistochemical stains, performed on blocks A4 and A5 with adequate controis, demonstrate the
tumor cells to be strongly and diffusely positive for vimeniin and desmin, moderately positive for p16,
weakly positive for actin, and negative for AEIIAES, GAMER, CKSJG, p63, 3-103, 0934, calponin,
(3068, myoglobin, pan—meianoma, and smooth-muscle myosin. 00315 shows equiovocal staining.
These ﬁndings support the above diagnosis of a high-grade teiomyosarcoma. Dr. if the
sarcoma service and Er. have reviewed this case and concur.

Speciments) Received
RiGHT GLOSSECTOMY
DORSAL TONGUE F5
VENTRAL TONGUE, FS

FLOOR OF MOUTH F8
POSTERIOR TONGUE F3

DEEP POSIERIOR TONGUE Fs
DEEP ANTERIOR TONGUE Fs
RIGHT NECK DISSECTION LEVEL 24
RIGHT FLOOR OF MOUTH
TOOTH

s—Immmuow>

Clinical History

None given-

Preoperative Diagnosis
Tongue cancer.

Intraoperative Consultation
F881. DORSAL TONGUE:
No evidence of malignancy.

F501. VENTRAL TONGUE:
No evidence of malignancy.

FSDi. FLOOR 0F MOUTH:
Mild dysplasia, no evidence of malignancy.

FSE‘i. POSTERIOR TONGUE:
No evidence of malignancy.

FSPE. DEEP POSTERIOR TONGUE:
No evidence of malignancy.

F363. DEEP ANTERIOR TONGUE:
No evidence of malignancy.

Comment: These frozen section diagnoseslresults were communicated to and acknowledged by Dr.

i, = g 1 MD, have performed the intraoperative consultations and issued the above
diagnoses.

Gross Description

A. The specimen is received fresh labeled "right glossectomy, double long stitch is posterior floor
of mouth single long stitch Is anterior double short :5 medial~ dorsal tongue”. The specimen consists
of a right partial glossectomy, which measures 5-0 cm from anterior to posterior“ 4.6 cm from dorsal to
ventral, and 3.0 cm from medial to lateral. There is an irregular, exophytic, sessile, locally necrotic
and hemorrhagic tumor on the moonsa of the tongue, which measures 4.0 x 4.0 x 8.? cm. The tumor
is centrally located and 0.5 cm from the closest anterior aspect of the tongue. All the resectim
margins of the tongue and floor of month are recenred {or frozen section analysis in separate
containers. Prior to sectioning, all the aspects of the specimen are inked black. Go sectioning, the
tumor ranges from 0.? to 2.0 cm in depth and is 8.2 cm from the desest deep aspect of the specimen.
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted to the

Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in 10 cassettes as follows:

A1: Mirror image of section submitted to the Tissue Procurement Laboratory

A2—A3: Tumor in relation to closest anterior aspect of the tongue, perpendicular sections
A4: Tumor in relation to closest posterior aspect of tongue

A5: Tumor in relation to closest dorsal aspect of tongue

AS: Tumor in relation to closest ventral aspect of tongue

A7: Tumor In relation to closest posterior aspect of floor of mouth
ABAiﬂ: Tumor In relation to closest deep aspect of tongue

8 The specimen is received fresh labeled ”dorsal tongue“. The specimen consists of an oblong
fragment of pink tan rubbery tissue partially covered with mucosa The specimen measures 2 5 x I}. 5
x 0 2 cm. No tissue is submitted to the The specimen is submitted
entirety for frozen section as FSB‘t.

C. The specimen is received fresh labeled “ventral tongue margin“. The specimen consists of an
oblong fragment of tan pink to red, rubbery tissue partially covered with mucosa. The specimen

measures 3.0 x {3.5 x 8.2 cm and is submitted entirely for frozen section as FSCt. No tissue is
submitted to the

D. The specimen is received fresh labeled "ﬂoor of mouth margin". The specimen consists of an
oblong fragment of pink tan tissue partially covered by mucosa. The specimen measures 2.5 x 0.5 x
0-2 cm and is submitted entirely for frozen section as FSDI . No tissue is submitted to the

E. The specimen is received fresh labeled ”posterior tongue margin“. The specimen consists of

an oblong fragment of pink tan mbbery tissue partially covered with mucosa. The specimen
measures 2. {i x t}- 5 x 9. 2 cm and :3 submitted entirely for frozen section as FSE1- No tissue is
submitted to the

F. The specimen is received fresh labeled "deep tongue posterior margin. The specimen
consists of an irregular fragment of tan red to brown rubbery tissue measuring 2.0 x 1-5 x 0.2 cm. No

tissue :5 submitted to the ‘ The specimen is entirely submitted for
frozen section as FSF’t.

G. The specimen is received fresh labeled ”anterior deep tongue". The specimen consists. of an
irregular fragment of tan red brown, rubbery tissue measuring 1.5 X 1-5 x {1.2 cm. No tissue is

submitted to the 1 The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section as FSG'I .

H. The specimen is labeled “right neck dissection 2-4, double stitch marks levei 4, single stitch
level 2.“ The specimen consists of a submandibular gland (3.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm) with a large amount of
ﬁbroadipose tissue attached. The specimen measures in overall dimension 1 1 x 4 x 2 cm. The
specimen is oriented according to the surgeon designation and is divided into 4 ievels, 1—4. The
submandibular gland is serially sectioned to reveat grossly unremarkable pink-tan, tabulated cut
surface. No stemocleidomastoid muscle or internal jugular vein is identiﬁed. The specimen is
oriented according to the surgeon designation and is divided into 4 levels 1-4. On sectioning, the
ﬁbroadipose tissue of the love! 1—4 multiple potential lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed which range
from i]. 1 to “i 7 cm in greatest dimension. No tissue is submitted to the

Representative sections of the specimen are submitted In 23 cassettes as follows:

Ht: .Submandibular gland.

H2: Two lymph nodes, level 1.

H3: Three lymph nodes level 1.

H4: One lymph node, level 2

H5: Three lymph nodes, level .2.

H6: One lymph node, level 2.

H7: One lymph node, level 2.

H8: Two lymph nodes, ievei 2'.

H9; One lymph node, level 2.

Hit}: One lymph node, level 3.

H11: One lymph node. level 3.

Hill-{14: Nine lymph nodes, Ievei 3, 3 lymph nodes per cassette.
H15: Four Iym ph nodes, Ievei 3.

H16: Three lymph nodes, level 3.

H17-l-i20'. Tweive lymph nodes, level 4, 3 iymph nodes per cassette.

I. The specimen Is received fresh tabeled "right ﬂoor of mouth". The specimen consists of an
irregular to oblong, unoriented fragment of ion red brown rubbery tissue which is partially covered by
mucosa. The specimen measures 4 5 x 1 8 x D. 7 cm. The specimen has not been oriented by the
surgeon and all the resection margins are inked black No tissue is submitted to the

' The specimen is serially sectioned and :5 submitted entirely In 6 cassettes,
I‘I-IS-

J. The specimen is labeled "tooth.” The specimen consists of 3 fragments of teeth which are
ranging from CI. T to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The fragments consistent with teeth roots Qne
tooth also contains an irregular tragment of crown No tissue is submitted to the

The specimen is received for gross analysis only.

      
   
  

Diagnosis Discre ancy
Primary. Tumor Site Dlscreplncy

 
 
 

use is chrcla): '
eviewer Initials ‘! .

     

