CGA—BZ-3924

 

SPECIMEN
Left kidney

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Renal mass

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Received fresh in a container labeled "left kidney" is a

specimen weighing 688 gm, and spanning an area 19 x 14.5 x
7 cm. The specimen consists of an 11.2 x 6.5 x 5.3 cm kidney, with
surrounding yellow adipose tissue. Within the adipose tissue is a
slightly fragmented 5.5 X 2.7 x 1.3 cm yellow-orange adrenal gland,
without fooal lesion in the adrenal gland. The kidney is sectioned,
revealing a circumscribed 4.3 x 3.7 x 3.5 cm focally cystic
yellow—orange mass, which appears confined to the kidney and is

on from the surface of the specimen in its closest extent. Per the

clinical request, a portion of tumor and a portion of normal

parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement. The renal pelvis
lS

smooth and tan—white. The parenchyma away from the mass is

tan—pink~red with a well—defined corticomedullary junction, with a

maximal Cortical thickness of 1.2 cm. There are a few cortical
cysts '

with smooth linings compatible with simple cysts, up to 1.2 cm in

greatest dimension. RSP10, following fixation.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — vascular and ureteral margins; 2H5 — tumor,
including relation to surrounding parenchyma, renal capsule, and
surrounding fat; 6 c renal pelvis; 7-9 ~ kidney away from tumor; 10
—adrenal gland. -

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
The following template summarizes these findings in this case:

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologio type: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma

Histologic grade {Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): 2
Primary tumor (pT): ple. The tumor is 4.2 cm in greatest
dimension

and is limited to kidney.

Margins of resection: Negative for tumor

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNX

Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Adrenal gland: negative for tumor

Vascular invasion: Not identified

Non—neoplastic kidney: Simple cysts. Scattered chronic
inflammation.

DIAGNOSIS
Kidney and adrenal gland, left, excision
h Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, 4.2 cm in greatest dimension,
limited to the kidney, margins negative for malignancy.
~ Adrenal gland without specific diagnostic abnormalities.

  

“we End Of Report —-~

