UUID: 2D555193- 536D- 4616-9lF3-601A311k8g22ac
TCGA- 5T-A9 Q-A UOIA PR

illlllllllllll'llllllillllllll'llillll'llillll'llliilllll

SURGICAL PA THOLOG Y REPORT

- 0’ 3
FINAL ‘ C 5
Procedure Date: WM Whip? wﬁjﬂ/va
Accession Date: ,
CLINICAL DATA: breast mass m WWW (m M k! MM
lOCIFROZEN: hair/14M
A1 FS: lnﬁltrating carcinoma. 3’ 5 43/ 3
Received at reported at SH’M W, was Q 50 [q
GROSS EXAMINATION: M/‘{
A. "Left Breast Mass, One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitches Anterior (Frozen Section)". The "I

specimen is received fresh

for frozen section designated "Left Breast Mass, One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitches
Anterior"

and consists of a 9.5 x 6.3 x 4.0 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue. The
posterior margin is inked black

and the anterior margin is inked blue. Sectioning shows a 3.4 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm solid ill-
deﬁned tan-white infiltrating

mass which extends very close to the anterior and posterior inked margins.
Representative sections are submitted

in twelve cassettes. A1 FS- frozen section remnant; A2-A4- mass and posterior margin;
A5, A6- mass and anterior

margin; A7- inferior margin; A8- superior margin; A9, A10- medial margin; A11, A12-
lateral margin.

Placed in formalin:

Removed from formalin: ,

Fixation time: 56 hours and 5 minutes

B. "Left Breast Mass (B), One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitch Anterior". The specimen is
received in formalin designated "Left Breast Mass (B), One Stitch Lateral, Two Stitch
Anterior" and consists of a 6.8 x

4.2 x 2.7 cm portion of tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue with sutures as described. The
lateral margin is inked black,

the medial margin is inked blue, the superior margin is inked yellow, and the inferior
margin is inked orange and

the posterior margin is inked green. Sectioning shows an ill-defined area of grey-white
induration measuring

approximately 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm located in the posterior portion of the specimen, and
extending close to the

inferior, lateral and medial margins. The remaining specimen is composed primarily of
pale yellow lobular adipose

tissue. Representative sections are submitted in fourteen cassettes. B1-BS- ill-defined
area of induration with

lateral, medial and inferior margins; B7, 88- posterior margin; 39- B11- superior margin;
B12- anterior margin;

B13, 814- additional sections of breast tissue with lateral and medial margins.

Placed in formalin:

Removed from formalin:

SURGICAL PA THOLOG Y REPORT
FINAL

Fixation time: 7 hours and 20minutes

C. "Skin Tags". The specimen is received in formalin designated ”Skin Tags" and
consists of

multiple grey-brown skin fragments measuring up to 0.5 cm. Submitted in toto in one
cassette.

Placed in formalin:

Removed from formalin: 7

Fixation time: 7 hours and 20 minutes

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Left breast mass, excision:

lnfiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast; see synoptic report.

B. Left breast mass:

Few microscopic foci of atypical ductal hyperplasia, with marked ﬁbrocystic changes.
Residual carcinoma is not identified.

C. Skin tags:

Skin tags, benign.

SYNOPTlC REPORT: INFlLTRATlNG BREAST CANCER

Procedure: Excision without wire-guided localization

Lymph Node Sampling: Not performed

Specimen Laterality: Left

Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: invasive ductal carcinoma with areas of
mucinous differentiation

Tumor Size: 3.4 cm in greatest diameter

Histologic Grade:

GlandularfTubular Differentiation: 3

Mitotic Rate: 3

Nuclear Pleomorphism: 3

Overall Grade: 3 of 3

Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma

Ductal Carcinoma in Situ

Few foci of ductal carcinoma in situ present; extensive intraductal component not
identiﬁed

Margins:

Deep surgical margin: Positive for invasive carcinoma (one low power field)
Anterior surgical margin: Negative for infiltrating carcinoma (infiltrating carcinoma
reaches within 0.5 mm of

the anterior surgical margin, in two low power fields)

Lymph Nodes: Not submitted

Lymph-Vascular Space Invasion: Present

SURGICAL PA THOL 06 Y REPORT

FINAL

Pathologic Staging:

Primary Tumor: pT2

Regional Lymph Nodes: pNX
Distant Metastasis: Not Applicable

COMMENT:
Prognostic markers are pending; a supplemental report will follow.
CPT Code: 88307 x 2 , 88305, 88331 9%: 1;“ W in spa

3;th MM” 'UM'

mic/mew I

  

 

