  

TCGA-w 32-41098

SPECIMEN

Left kidney

CLINICAL NOTES

DRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Renal mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left
kidney" is a 365—gram, 10.5 x 7.5 x 7 cm. left kidney

with

in

the

are

a moderate amount of attached perirenal adipose tissue. A slightly
fragmented 4.8 x 3.4 x 1.5 cm. yellow—orange adrenal gland is
present superiorly. A probe—patent 8 cm. ureter averaging 0.3 cm.

diameter is present. On Sectioning, there is a 5 x 5 x 4.5 cm. soft
congested yellow~orange~brown tumor mass occupying the superior
pole. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal are procured as
requested. On sectioning, the tumor extends to within 0.5 cm. of

inked surface of the specimen. The tumor appears confined by the

renal capsule which is delicate and strips with relative ease from
the underlying cortical surface. Immediately adjacent to the tumor
are several smooth—lined serous fluid-filled cysts measuring up to

cm. The renal pelvis is smooth glistening tanuwhite. The renal
parenchyma is uniform redabrown with a moderately wellwdefined
corticomedullary junction and a maximal cortical thickness of 1.2
cm. Several serous fluid-filled cortical cysts measuring up to 0.9
cm. are evident throughout the specimen. Representative sections

submitted in 11 blocks as labeled. Rs—ll

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 " vascular and ureteral margins; 2,4 — tumor to
inked surface of specimen; 5—? ~ cystic structures adjacent to
lesion; 8 « renal pelvis; 9 and 10 — random normal parenchyma; 11 -

adrenal gland. I

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Mixed papillary renal cell carcinoma and clear
cell renal cell carcinoma, approximately 50% of each tumor type.

Histologic grade (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): Both tumor types are
grade II
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures 5 cm in greatest dimension with

no extension beyond the kidney identified (ple)
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor
Regional lymph nodes (pN): None identified, pNX
Distant metastasis (pM): Could not evaluate, pMK
Adrenal gland: Negative for tumor

Vascular invasion: Not identified

 

Non—neoplastic kidney: Chronic interstitial inflammation is present
and some benign cysts are present
other findings: To delineate the two tumor types, CK7, EMA, RCC
and
PAX2 immunohistochemical stains were evaluated on tissue block 3
where the two tumor types are both present. The
papillary renal cell carcinoma area is very
strongly positive for cytokeratin 7 and there is a
lack of cytokeratin 7 staining in the clear cell
carcinoma area and this helps support the
interpretation of the two tumor types being
present. The EMA staining is stronger in the
papillary area than in the clear cell area. The
RCC staining is also somewhat stronger in the
papillary area. The PAXZ staining is similar.

4X1, 20x4

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified

as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

DIAGNOSIS

A. Left kidney, radical nephrectomy:
Renal cell carcinoma, mixed clear cell and papillary type,
approximately 50% of each, Fuhrman nuclear grade 2.
Tumor size 5 cm, no extension beyond the kidney is identified
(pTib).
Resection margins are negative for tumor.
Adrenal gland is negative for tumor.
See microscopic description.

-—-__.

