SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
lose 0 -3
W Wﬂlmﬂ N55 X3iﬂ/3
3m.- WWW 021/. /
Case Number : I/3////

k

Diagnosis:
A: Lymph nodes, right periaortic, removal
- No tumor identified in three lymph nodes (0/3).

 

B: Uterus with cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy
Location of tumor: primary endometrial cancer involving uterine corpus

Histologic type: endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous differentiation

 

Histologic grade (FlGO): well differentiated FIGO Grade 1
Extent of invasion: Tumor is limited to the endometrium, with focal extension into underlying superﬁcial adenomyosis.

Myometrial invasion: not identified

UUID: 65:66:6F7Y- BAIAD- ‘79CA A5P07- R-FEFEE7D7E30eDdact
Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|l|lll|ll
-n . . . Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
”W me" e segmem' mm "°t 'dem'ﬁe“ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Serosal involvement: not identified

Cervical involvement: not identified

Adnexal involvement (see below): not identiﬁed

Other sites: not identified

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: negative, widely free
Lymphovascular Space Invasion: not identified

Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):

Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 23

Other Pathologic ﬁndings: Adenomyosis; leiomyoma with hyalinization; non—neoplastic secretory endometrium.

Endometrial cancer estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry pending on block 312,

addendum to follow.
AJCC Pathologic stage: pTla pNO pr
FlGO Stage grouping: lA

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
— No tumor identified.
- Corpus luteum.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- No tumor identiﬁed.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- No tumor identified.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:

- No tumor identified.

C: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, removal

- No carcinoma identified in 9 lymph nodes (0/9).

- Focal bland smooth muscle proliferation consistent with localized leiomyomatosis, and focal benign serous inclusion
(C10).

D: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, removal

- No tumor identified in 11 lymph nodes (0/11).
Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

The patient is with endometrial carcinoma.
Gross Description:

Received are four formalin-filled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "right periaortic" and holds a 6 x 1.4 x 1.1 cm aggregate of fat and two identifiable
lymph nodes. These nodes are submitted in block A1 (1 node), and blocks A2-A3 (1 node).

Container B is additionally labeled "uterus, cervix, tubes, ovaries".

Adnexa:

Weight: 350 grams

Shape: Pear

Dimensions:

height: 12.5 cm

anterior to posterior width: 8.0 cm

breadth at fundus: 9.0 cm

Serosa: Tan/pink and glistening with focal areas of hemorrhage measuring 0.2 x 0.4 cm in greatest dimension.
Cervix:

length of endocervical canal: 4.9 cm

ectocervix: 1 cm

endocervix: 3 cm

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 5.6 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 4.3 cm

tumor ﬁndings:

dimensions: The tumor spans from the upper fundus to

the lower uterine segment. It measures roughly 5 x 5 x 0.6 cm.

appearance: Velvety red/tan.

location and extent: Lower uterine segment up to the upper corpus/fundus

myometrial invasion: No gross apparent myometrial invasion

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 3.5 cm

other findings or comments: There is a large what appears to be myometrial based tan-white whorled mass grossly
consistent with leiomyoma

measuring 5 x 4 x 5.5 cm.

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 6 x 3 x 2 cm

external surface: Tan and lobulated with a 3.6 x 3.2 x 2.6 cm ovarian based fluid filled cyst.
cut surface: Reveals tan homogeneous ovarian parenchyma with a golden corpus luteum and blood filled cyst
Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 8 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm.

other findings: No other findings

Left ovary:

dimensions: 3.6 x 3 x 1 cm

external surface: Red/tan lobulated

cut surface: Reveals tan/pink lobulated parenchyma

Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 7.6 cm x 0.7 x 1 cm

other findings: There are two clear fluid filled peritubal cysts measuring 0.5 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimensions.
Lymph nodes: Submitted separately.

Other comments: None

Digital photograph taken: Not taken

Tissue submitted for special investigations:

Block Summary:

81 — Anterior cervix

82 - Anterior lower uterine segment, bisected
B3-B4 - Anterior mid corpus, bisected

85 - Anterior upper corpus/fundus, bisected
B6 - Anterior upper corpus/fundus, bisected
B7 - Posterior cervix

88 - Posterior lower uterine segment

89-811 - Posterior mid corpus, trisected
812-816 - Full thickness section at posterior upper corpus/fundus, quadrisected (813-814 is further bisected) (815-816 is
further sectioned.

817 - Right ovary and tube

818 - Left ovary and tube

Container C is additionally labeled "left pelvic node" and holds multiple fragments of yellow/red/ pink fatty tissue
measuring 4.4 x 3 x 2 cm in aggregate.

Block Summary:

C1 - Two lymph node candidates

C2 - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

C3 - One lymph node candidate

C4-C5 - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

C6-C7 - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned and associated fat in block C7
C8 - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

C9-C10 - One lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

C11 - Remaining fat, NTR

Container D is additionally labeled "right pelvic node" and holds a mass of fibrofatty tissue and multiple lymph nodes
measuring 8 x 5 x 1.4 cm.

Block Summary:

D1 - Three lymph nodes

D2-D3 - One lymph node serially sectioned

D4 - One lymph node candidate

D5 - One lymph node

D6-D10 - One mass of lymph nodes serially sectioned
D11 - Remaining tissue, NTR

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used In this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These
were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the L

- _-..-.-U, . t. These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval Is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory Is certiﬁed under the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.

Signature

Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist: l have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
The endometrial adenocarcinoma is estrogen receptor positive (2-3+, 90%) andprogesterone receptor positive (3+, 90%)
by immunohistochemistry. Controls stained appropriately.

The focus of localized leiomyomatosis noted in a left pelvic lymph node (slide C10) is confirmed by positive
immunostaining for HMB45. Localized leiomyomatosis is a rare entity, and may be associated with disease in other
sites, particularly pulmonary leiomyomatosis. As clinically indicated, consider further evaluation for potential pulmonary
involvement.

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These
were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

"' These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval Is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the
Clinical Laborator/ Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.

