 

Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY
Left frontal mass

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES

Operation/Specimen: A; Brain, left frontal mass, biopsy
B: Brain, left frontal mass, biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:
A. and B. Brain, left frontal tumor, excision: Glioblastoma (WHO Grade IV)

(see comment).

COMMENT
Sections show a densely cellular tumor demonstrating vascular proliferation

and necrosis. The tumor cells are diffusely positive for GFAP and p53. The
Kiv67 labeling index is variable, but is focally up to 60% in several areas.
Results of MGMT promoter methylation and EGFRVIII mutation assays will be
reported below in procedure addenda.

    

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
PCR for EGFR variant III mutation
Date Ordered: _ Date REPOItedi

 

InterpretatiOn

POSITIVE — EGFRVIII mutation is detected

Resultstomments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tumor paraffin
block

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular
target

in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III
(EGFRvIIl) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that
is

commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRvIII as defining prognostically distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRvIlI has been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA
18

then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this assay

has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by the —laboratory as
required by CLIA ‘ -regulations. It has not been c eared or approved for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results
are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

    

Interpretation
NEGATEVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment

of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA

followed
by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated

DNA
sequences.

The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial dilution of
methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and was assessed to
be

1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated DNA. Factors such as
the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the sample, or extensive tissue
necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated MGMT promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics determined by the aboratory as
required by CLIA '-regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results
are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A. Brain, left frontal mass, biopsy: High—grade glioma. Frozen section and

smears performed at —and results reported to the

Physician

of Record- —

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh are fragments of tan tissue, approximately 0.5 x

0.5 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. Small samples are used for intraoperative frozen
sections and smears. The frozen residual is submitted in Al and the unfrozen
issue is submitted in A2.

B. Received fresh is a single portion of tan tissue, approximately 1.0 x
0.9 x 0.4 cm. Approximately 1/3 of the tissue is submitted in Bl. The
remainder of the tissue is submitted for snap freezing and storage in the

_ per the surgeon' 8 request-

ICD—9(s):
225.0 225.0

 

Histo Data

Part A: ' 1 mass, bio_
Ta ken : M Received_
Stain/cut Block Ordered
F8 H/E x l
H/E x 1

TPS H/E x l
H/E x 1

Part B: Brain left frontal mass, biops—
Taken: — Received:
Stain/cut

EGFR VIII—curls x l
H/E x l

MGMT—curls x l
MIBl—DA x l

P5300? x l

   

NHa—Ii—I

Comment

 

*** End of Report ***

 

