UUID:D424C 52C -47D2-4182-85F8-9665C5613C1E
TCGA- FN- A3R5 -96A- PR

Redacted
I“lllllIllllllllll|Ill||||||l|l||lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllll
ll

1

Sur Path Final Re ort , IllIIlllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
g p ' IllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

‘ Final Report "

* Final Report *

SURG PATH FINAL REPORT
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Collected:
Accession: .
Physicianz'
PROCEDURE

Left parotidectomy with left functional neck dissection.

SPECIMEN:
Left parotid. No formalin-Fresh. mama

HISTORY
Carcinoma left parotid.

 

GROSS
Received fresh in a container labeled "left parotid" are two
fragments of lobulated tan tissue (5.5 x 2.8 x 1.6 and 3.5 x 2 x 0.8
cm). The larger fragment is serially sectioned and has a 0.7 cm in
greatest dimension discrete, firm, brown and tan nodule within 1 mm
of the inked margin. A representative portion of the nodule is
submitted for the groject. A second discrete tan nodule
(0.5 cm in diameter) is 0.4 cm from the nearest margin. The
remaining tissue has a lobulated firm cut surface. The margins are
marked with black ink. The smaller tissue fragment has a fatty cut
surface with a palpable nodules suggestive of fatty lymph nodes (0.3
and 0.8 cm).

1. Large peripheral nodule. 2NS

2-3. Small eccentric nodule. 2N8
4-6. Representative sections of parotid parenchyma. 358
7. Bisected fatty tissue with possible small lymph node. 2N8
8-9. Bisected fatty tissue representing possible large lymph node.
2NSl

MICROSCOPIC
See diagnosis.

DIAGNOSIS
Left parotid, left parotidectomy with left functional neck
dissection:

Metastatic malignant melanoma involving two (of eight)
intraparotid lymph nodes (2/8) (see comment).
Three benign periparotid lymph nodes (0/3).

CPT
P' tedb \CD«O'3 Page1of2
nn y: . «‘
Printed on: We: Whig. frog “‘0‘“ l (Continued)
3

(SLR : )Urﬂfh «pa/kg awe-he)

246h2.gﬂ (:71h7.c>

Surg Path Final Report -— . i

' Final Report ' > ' 4’"

COMMENT
Two intraparotid lymph nodes are involved by metastatic malignant
melanoma. The largest tumor focus is 7 mm (measured grossly) and
one of the two lymph nodes appears entirely replaced by neoplasm
with extracapsular extension. The neoplasm is composed of markedly
enlarged, irregular cells with irregular nuclei, very prominent, red
nucleoli, intranuclear inclusions and many bizarre-appearing cells.
The cells show abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and numerous mitotic
figures are noted. They are disposed in nests and sheets. Some
focal pigment is noted within the tumor cells. Immunohistochemical
studies were performed to better characterize the neoplastic cells.
They are strongly positive for an 3-100 immunohistochemical stain,
but negative for cytokeratin 31/83 and CKS/IB, as well as Melan A
and HMB45 immnnnhistochemical stains. The intracellular pigment
stains for a , special stain consistent with melanin
pigment. An iron special stain is negative within the intracellular
pigment. The morphologic features and results of the
immunohistochemical studies and special studies are most consistent
with a diagnosis of metastatic malignant m-lanoma. This case was
reviewed with Drs. and _

(Electronic Signature)

Completed Action List:
* Order by i ’ on ’

Type: Sure Path Final Report

Dds:

Status: ,

Title: SURG PATH FINAL REPORT

Encounter info: ‘ ‘ ’ _ ‘ ‘ "

Printed bin _ Page 2 012
Printed on: ,,_ (End of Report)

