_ Consa—trcons—ent unknown (notchecked)

Specimen Type:
A: Uterus, TUBES, OVARIES, MASS

B: Omentum

 

 

Clinical Details:
Ovarian cancer

Inert—314953
Macroscopic Description:

A) UTERUS, TUBES, OVARiES and MASSi The uterus measures 8 cm in length and 6
cm transversaliy. There is an intramural fibroid in the fundic region, measuring 2 cm in
diameter. The endometrium is 0.3 cm thick and the maximum myometriai thickness is
1.8 cm. There is focal thickening of the serosa of the uterus.

There are separate ovarian masses that measure 8.5 x 6 x 4.5 cm and 9 x T x 4 cm. Both
ovarian masses show friable papillary tumour on the surface. The cut surface of the
masses reveals necrotic friable white tumour tissue. One of the ovarian masses has a
stretched and distorted fallopian tube on the surface, which measures 5 cm in length and
0.6 cm in diameter. A fallopian tube is not macroscopically identified in the second
ovarian mass.
Block: A 1 — A8, 1 pc each ovarian mass with capsule, A8 & A7 with sections with tube

A 9 — A16, 1pc each other mass, A12 & A13 represent tube

A17 -— multi pieces right parametria

A18 — multi pieces left parametria

A19 e 1pc anterior cervix

A20 -— 1pc posterior cervix

A21 — 1pc lower uterine segment

A22 - A23 1pc each together one complete T8 of endometrium and myometrium with

thickened peritoneal reflection
A24 ~ 1pc fibroid

 

 

 

A25 — 1pc posterior wall of uterus with endometrium and myometrium. -

B) OMENTUM: This is omental tissue measuring 28 x 20 x 2 cm, containing tumour deposits.

The largest of the deposits measures 2.5 x 2.5 x 2 cm.
Block: B l — B 4, 1pc each

- I _
Microscopic Description:
A) UTERUS, TUBES and OVARlES: Sections from both ovarian masses show similar
morphological features. The ovarian parenchyma is extensively infiltrated by serous papillary
carcinoma, Grade ill. The tumour shows papillary architecture and solid sheets. The tumour
cells have markedly atypical nuclei, featuring prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. There
is brisk mitotic activity and focal necrosis. The entrapped fallopian tubes in both the ovarian

masses are free from tumour infiltration.

The endometrium is inactive. The myometrium contains foci of adenomyosis. There are
metastatic tumour deposits of serous carcinoma on the serosal surface and focally infiltrating
the uterine wait. The cervix and parametrial tissue are free of tumour..

B) OMENTUM: The omentum shows multiple metastatic deposits of serous carcinoma.

The tumour cells express ER (Alfred’s score 7), PgR (Allred’s score 3) and WT—i. Few cells
weakly express p53. .

Final Diagnosis:
A) UTERUS, TUBES and OVARIES: BILATERAL OVARlAN SEROUS PAPILLARY

CARCINOMA, GRADE Ill, STAGE ”[0

B) OMENTUM: METASTATIC SEROUS PAPILLARY CARCINOMA

iddilional Pathologisttsllests)

 

 

 

 

