Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY

with right—sided tingling and numbness experienced

right sided seizure, and had at surgery a high histological grade glioma.
Currently, residual tumor has increased in size, with significant mass effect.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Left parietal occipital tumor

Operation/Specimen: A: Left parietal tumor, biopsy
‘1 Brain tumor, left, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A, B. Brain, left parietal, excisional biopsy and excision:
l. Glioblastoma.

2. MIBal proliferation index: 33%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The specimens consist of fragments of cerebrum that are infiltrated and
extensively effaced by an astrocytic neoplastic proliferation with nuclear
anaplasia, mitotic activity, a high proliferation index, prominent
microvascular cellular proliferation, and zones of tumor necrosis.

The findings are those of a glioblastoma (WHO grade IV/IV).

 

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
MGMT Promoter ‘ n
Date Ordered: Date Reported:

“aterpretation

 

POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

 

Page 1

 

 

 

Results—Comments
rr‘esting performed on tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA followed
by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA ' .regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

Interpretation

NEGATIVE — No evidence of EGFRvIII mutation is detected

asults—Comments
TEST DRRURTPTTON: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tumor paraffin block
RNA quality: Good

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular target
in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III
(EGFRvIII) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that is
commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastcma have demonstrated EGFRVIII as defining prognostically distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRVIII has been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA is
then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this assay has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics deter ined by the” laboratory as
required by CLIA ‘ regulations. as not een cleared or approved for

specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

Page 2

 

 

 

INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

A.
Left parietal tumor, biopsy, touch prep and smears: High histological grade

glioma {C/W lioblastoma). ! Touch preparation smears perf
rand results repor ed to the Physician of Record.

   

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.
"Brain tumor," received fresh, three fragments, 0.8 cm in aggregate. Soft,
glistening, reddish—tan. In total, A2.

B.
SPECIMEN: Brain tumor, left

FIXATIVE: Formalin .

GENERAL: Received is a 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm aggregate of irregular tan brown
hemorrhagic soft rubbery tissue fragments.

SECTIONS: Blesubmitted entirely

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP depicts the strong gliofibrillogenesis of the
tumor. A great majority of neoplastic cells strongly over express the p53
protein. With the MIB—l there is a proliferation index of about 33% in the
more active areas. The neoplasm has immunoreactivity with EMA.

ICD~9(s):
239.6 239.6

   
  
   

isto Data

Part A: Left arietal tumor, biopsy
Taken: h eeeeevee
Stain/cut Block Ordered Comment
EGFR vIII—curls x 1 No microdissection needed!
EMA-DA x l
mGFAP—DA x 1
H/E x l
MGMT—curls x l
MIBl—DA x 1
953907 x 1

3 H/E x 1

Part B: Brain tumor left, excision bio 5
Taken: — Received: h

Hrawepraraeap

 

 

 

     

Comment

*** End of Report ***

 

 

Page 4

 

