rn

Imus—:3 by)

MW

UUID: 5F25185F- AFBB- 4137- A07C- 230F33ACE3AEc
TCGA- BK- A6N4- 61A- PR

Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:

Diagnosis

A. Uterus, cervix, both tubes and ovaries, total hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma (with focal squamous
differentiation), invading 32% of the myometrial thickness.
Multiple leiomyomata and adenomyosis present.

Cervix, no significant pathology.

Right and left ovaries, no significant pathology.

Right fallopian tube with endometriosis; left fallopian tube with
salpingitis follicularis

B. Hernia sac, herniorrhaphy: Fibroadipose tissue consistent with
origin from hernia sac.

Microscopic Description:
A. This uterus contains abundant endometrioid adenocarcinoma which is
mostly low grade and associated with focal atypical complex
hyperplasia. However, in blocks 11 and 12 there is a relatively small
focus of invasive grade 3 carcinoma with abundant high grade squamous
differentiation. This single focus invades 32% of the myometrial
thickness.
Histologic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with focal high grade
squamous differentiation
Histologic grade: Overall grade 2
Myometrial invasion:

6 mm depth of invasion

19 mm depth of myometrial thickness

32% % of myometrial wall
Cervix: No significant pathology
Primary tumor (pT) TNM (FIGO): pTla (IA)
Margins of resection: Negative
Vascular invasion: Negative
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Cannot be assessed
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed
Other findings: Multiple leiomyomata and extensive adenomyosis

Right ovary, no significant pathology; right fallopian tube with
endometriosis
Left ovary, no significant pathology; left fallopian tube with

salpingitis follicularis
MSI testing: Ordered on block A12

B. Microscopic examination performed

Specimen
A. Uterus, cervix, both tubes and ovaries
B. Hernia sac

Clinical Information
Gl endometrial carcinoma. Possible splenic lesion, 4 mm pulmonary
nodules

Intraoperative Consultation
A. Complex hyperplasia with atypia. No definite evidence of an
invasive process. Adenomyosis also present.

‘25 so )3
0.54- I

3.12
072K) 7/25233

Gross Description

A. Received fresh labeled "uterus, cervix, both tubes and ovaries" is a
142 g, 7.0 x 6.2 x 4.7 cm symmetrical uterine corpus with attached 3.8
cm cervix and bilateral adnexa. The serosa is smooth tan—pink. The
annular 3.5 cm tan—white ectocervix surrounds a 1.0 x 0.2 cm ovoid
patent os. Endocervical mucosa is mildly trabecular tan—pink. The
distorted, 4.2 x 2.7 cm uterine cavity is lined by markedly soft pale
tan endometrium/tumor. A frozen section is performed. On sectioning,
the lesion has an apparent maximal thickness of 0.8 cm, involving the
upper one 3rd of the myometrium anteriorly. The myometrium is markedly
trabecular tan-pink and measures up to 2.5 cm. A few rubbery tan-white
intramural leiomyomata measuring up to 1.7 cm are present.

Bilaterally, the rubbery tan—pink ovaries average 2.4 x 2.0 X 1.6 cm.
On sectioning, the stroma both ovaries is pale tan with identifiable
corpora albicantia. The markedly convoluted right and left fallopian
tubes are adhesed and appear to be to measure approximately 5 cm in
length and range from 0.4 to 0.8 cm in diameter. The lumina appear
pinpoint.
Summary: 1 and 2 - anterior cervix/Lus, continuity inked blue, 3
through 7 - representative anterior endomyometrium, fundus to Lus
including identifiable tumor, 8 and 9 — posterior cervix/lower uterine
segment, continuity inked black, 10 through 13 — posterior
endomyometrium, fundus to Lus, 14 — leiomyomata, 15 - right adnexa, 16
"'4 17 — left adnexa

B. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "hernia

sac" is a 4.3 x 4.3 x 0.5 cm aggregate of pink-tan fibromembranous
tissue and yellow lobular fat. RS 1.

44d 7/448

 

 

 

Diagnosl; Ciacrapnnry

“a...

Pramﬂf Tumor Size Uuscrepanu

 

MFA“. Discrepancy

_,.._._‘r.- __
Prim Malignancy I‘JSlOfV
Duai/Svrrthrur‘nus anm 51% ‘

Case 15(zirtle):

 

 

 

L._ L'Eiéf:
.__ __;J
(\UI‘LH lily—I L'SSQUAI'IFIED '

heviewerlmtiahlig géﬂ ‘ alﬂeviewed' 3:] IL ﬂ

”T‘v—I—W —_ ﬂ]

 

 

