UUID:76F9038F £635-4726-BDEB-CF4867136395
TCGA-SB-ASSH-BlA-PR Re

 

i .
iPatient Name MRI:

 

:Observatlon Date

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE:

Diagnosis
A. Lymph node, level ll, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
B. Lymph node, level IV, excision: — Negative for malignancy.
C. Lymph node, level X, excision: — Negative for malignancy.
D. Lymph node, ievel lV, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
E. Lymph node, level X, excision: Negative for malignancy.
F. Lymph node, level X, excision:- Negative for malignancy.
G. Lymph node, level X, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

Last Edited Date

ll llllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliljli‘lillm
ll lllllll l llllllll l lllll I llllllllllllll ll lllllll llllllllllll
ll lllllllll llll ll lllll ll l lllllllllllll lllllll ll llll lllllllll

leave»)
" ‘ cod, w; 3075/3
CW]: W i.“
.S‘v-fL: idiuﬂ-Q’Q‘n‘p“ ML, 0,3 .

Mai/i)—

H. Lymph node, level X, excision:- Hyalinized granuloma. Negative for malignancy.
l. Lymph node, level Xi, excision: - Hyalinized granuloma with calcification. - Negative for malignancy.
J. Lymph node, levelIVll, excision: - Calcified hyalinized granuloma. - No malignancy.

K. Lymph node, level lX, excision: - Benign fibroadipose tissue.
L. Lymph node, levelvm, excision; - Negative for malignancy.

M. Lymph node, level X, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
N. Lymph node, level Xi, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
0. Bronchial margin, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

- No lymph node identiﬁed.

P. Lung, right upper lobe, resection: — Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated. - Tumor measures 1.8
cm in greatest dimension. — Pleura is uninvolved by tumor. - Surgical margins, negative. for malignancy.

0. Lymph node, level ll, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
Pathologic stage: pT1a N0
Clinical information: The patient is a

Frozen Section Diagnosis

A' Lymph node, level 2, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
Lymph node, level 4, excision: — Negative for malignancy.
Lymph node, level 7, excision: - Hyalinized granuloma. - Ne

B?

J: ‘

O: Bronchial margin, excision: - Negative for malignancy.
P:

year old female with a mediastinal lymph node. and a right upper lobe nodule.

gative for malignancy.

Right upper lobe, lung, lobectomy: - Squamous cell carcinoma;

Gross Description

The specimens are received in seventeen containers of formalin, labeled with the patients name and medical record

number. The first container is additionally labeled "level 2 lymph node."
name and A1, it is the remnant frozen section. Within the cassette is a

and it is submitted in its entirety in block A1.

The second container is additionally labeled ”level 4 lymph node."
name and B1. in the cassette are multiple fragments of tan-black tissue

submitted in its entirety in cassette 81.

The third container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node."
measures 1 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette C1

The fourth container is additionally labeled "level 4 lymph node."
measures 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.6 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette

The fifth container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node."
measure in aggregate 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. it is submitted in its entirety

The sixth container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node."
which measure in aggregate 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.3 cm. it is submitted in its e

Received is a cassette labeled with the patients

piece of ten tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.2 x 0.4 cm,

Received is a cassette labeled with the patients

which measure in aggregate 3 x 1 x02 cm. it is

Received is a piece of tan-black tissue which

Received is a piece of tan-black tissue which
D1.

Received are two pieces of tan-black tissue which
in cassette E1.

ReceiVed are two fragments of black-tan tissue
ntirety in cassette F 1.

The seventh container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node." Received is a single piece of tan-brown tissue
which measures 0.4 x 0.2 x- 0.3 cm in diameter, it is submitted in its entirety in cassette (31.

The eighth container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node." Received are several pieces of tan-black tissue
which measure in aggregate 0.7 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette H1.

The ninth container is additionally labeled "level 11 lymph node." Received is a single fragment of tan-black tissue
which measures in aggregate 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.4 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette l1.

The tenth container is additionally labeled "level 7 lymph node - frozen.“ Received are multiple fragments of tissue

which in aggregate measures 2.7 x 0.4 x 0.8 cm. Fragments representing the remnant frozen sections are submitted in
cassette J1.

The eleventh container is additionally labeled “level 9 lymph node." Received is a single piece of tan tissue
measuring 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.7'cm. It is submitted in its entirety in cassette K1. The twelfth container is additionally labeled
"level 8 lymph node." Received is a single piece of tan—black tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. It is submitted in its
entirety in cassette L1. The thirteenth container is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node." Received are several
fragments of tan—black tissue which measure in aggregate 1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The tissue is submitted in its entirety in
cassette M1. The fourteenth container is additionally labeled "level 11 lymph node." Received are multiple fragments of
tan-black tissue measuring in aggregate 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette M1. The fifteenth
container is additionally labeled "bronchial margin - frozen." Received is a single cassette labeled with the patients name
and additionally 01. Within the cassette is a piece of tan-brown tissue which measures 1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. it is submitted in
its entirety in cassette 01.

The sixteenth container is additionally labeled "right upper lobe - frozen." Received is a cassette iabeled with the
patients name and P1, representing the remnant frozen margin. This tissue is submitted in its entirety in cassette P1.
Additionally in this container we have a piece of lung tissue which measures 15 x 9 x 2 cm. On the anti-hilar surface the
lung has been previously opened prior to receiving. Inside of the lung parenchyma is a tan ﬁrm nodule which has
previously been incised. The hilar surface of the lung is smooth and shiny. There is a staple line across the hilum and
additionally across another aspect of the piece of lung. The staple line measures 6 cm. The anti—hilar surface of the
pleura is smooth and shiny with minimal anthracosis. The parenchyma is serially sectioned and the yellow nodule is,
measured 1.8 cm in its greatest dimension. The remainder of the lung parenchyma is maroon, spongy with no evidence of
any additional masses- A shavemargin of the staple line is taken and submitted in cassette P2. Representative sections
of the tumor are taken and submitted in cassettes P3 and P4. A representative section of the uninvolved lung
parenchyma is taken in caesette P5. The seventeenth container is additionally labeled "leve12 lymph node." Received is
a piece of tan—black tissue measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. it is submitted in its entirety in cassette Q1.

Block Summary '_ . J1- Level 7 lymph node, frozen.
A1- Level 2. lymph node. ‘ K1— Level 9 lymph node.
81- Level 4 lymph node. Lt- Level B lymph node.
C1- Level 10 lymph node. M1~ Level 10 lymph node.
D1- Level 4 lymph node. N1— Level 11 lymph node.
Ei- Level 10 lymph node. 01- Bronchial margin — frozen.
F‘l- Level 10 lymph node. P1- Right upper lobe - frozen section remnant.
61- Level 10 lymph node. P2— Staple line‘shaved margin.
H1- Level 10 lymph node. P3-P4 Representative sections of right upper lobe mass.
l1— Level 11 lymph node. P5— Representative section of lung parenchyma.

Microsco pic Description: A microscopic examination has been performed.

 
 
    
  

Criteri-
Diagnosis Discrepancy
anaw iumur Site Discrepancy

Reviewer initials ‘ __ -

M .f—ﬂ—ff’r“

