Page 1 of 4

 

UUID: BBOGGAAA- 5A3D- -4167- 8135- -68C0901769A8
TCGA- IB- -AAUV- D1A- PR

 

 

WMHWWMWMMMMW

nummmmmmmmmmmmmmwwmwmlm
llIllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllll Illlll ||||l|||l

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Time Collected Time Received
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Status Final Relevant Information
Location .. mg);
Copied To , . ' ‘"
adiuﬁawtm Z5.) 61-be N O 3 856:0}3
Report Patient Nam (w. . _ '
Demographics (for 0412 f mqqgm [Ami (225, O

veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Drum

Sex: M

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surgical Pathology Reoort*****

Accession Number

Collected Date/Time

Received Date/Time

Pathologist

Specimen Description

Lymph nodes group A at

Gallbladder at

Whipple's specimen at

Portal lymph node at

Branch of superior mesenteric vein at
Retroperitoneal margin at
Mesocolon lymph nodes at

Clinical Information

Pancreatic cancer pancreatic head mass.
Infectious patient: No
Immunocompromised: No

History of neoplasm: No

E”

O'HHUQU

92c 6/26/14

 

Biagnosis
A. Lymph Nodes, Group A, Resection:

« Five lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/5)

E. *Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy:

- Mild non-specific acute inflammation with marked eosinophilia.
C. Duodenum and Pancreas, Pancreaticoduodeneotomy (Whipple'a):
— Head and uncinate process of the pancreas and common bile duct:
~ Pancreatic moderately differentiated invasive ductal
adenocarcinoma with mucinous features (see Comment).

C I l l

cancerization).

POSITIVE for perineural invasion.

POSITIVE for lymph-vascular invasion.

Foci of pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia, grade 3 (PanIN 3).
Common bile duct mucosa focally involved by carcinoma (i.e.,

- Vascular bed margin POSITIVE for carcinoma.
- Pancreatic resection margin negative for carcinoma, at least

0.6 cm away.

- Posterior resection margin negative for carcinoma, at least 0.15

cm away.

- Common bile duct resection margin negative for carcinoma.
- Three of fifteen peripancreatic lymph node POSITIVE for
metastatic carcinoma (3/15).

- p'r3N1Mx .
— Duodenum and distal stomach

- Ampullary region (submucosa, muscularis mucosa, and base of

:\

_ , Page 2 of 4

mucosa) involved by invasive carcinoma;
Distal duodenum ischemic changes, most likely related to the
surgery
— Distal and proximal resection margins free of tumor.
D. Portal lymph node, resection: ~
- Two lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/2).
3. Branch of superior mesenteric vein, resection:
- Negative for carcinoma.
F. Retroperitoneal margin, biopsy:
- Fragment of fibrous tissue and skeletal muscle, negative for
carcinoma.
- One lymph node negative for carcinoma (0/1).
G. Mesocolon lymph nodes. resection:
- One of two lymph nodes POSITIVE for metastatic carcinoma
(1/2) with extranodal extension.
Reported by: .
Electronically signed by:
Verified: ' I

Responsible Resident:
Synoptic Report
SPECIMEN:
Head of pancreas
Duodenum
Common bile duct
Gallbladder
PROCEDURE:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial pancreatectomy
TUMOR SITE:
Pancreatic head
Uncinate process
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimension: 4.8 cm
Additional dimensions: 3.6 x 2.2 cm cm
HI STDLOGIC TYPE :
Ductal adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
G2: Moderately differentiated
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION :
Carcinoma in situ
Tumor invades ampulla of Vater or sphincter of Oddi
Tumor invades duodenal wall
Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissues
Tumor invades retroperitoneal soft tissue
MARGINS :
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1.5 mm
Specified margin: retroperitoneal
Margin(s) involved by invasive carcinoma
vascular bed margin
TREATMENT EFFECT (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
Not known
LY'MPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Present
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the
superior mesenteric artery
REGIONAL LY‘MPH NODES (pN) :
le: Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 15
Number involved: 3
Gross Description
Received are specimen containers A to G. All requisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the patient's name, he cassettes and identifiers
are labelled with the Surgical Numbe: _ .
A. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "A - lymph node group A“. The
specimen consists of a single irregular piece of tan-yellow fibrofatty tissue (3.2 x 2.5
x 0.3 cm). Five possible lymph nodes are identified and range in size from 0.7 cm to 1.5
cm in greatest dimension. Cassettes submitted as follows:

.p Page 3 of 4

A1. largest lymph node bisected

A2-3. two possible lymph nodes bisected, one inked blue
B. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "B - gallbladder at The

specimen consists of dusky grey, intact gallbladder (8.1 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm). The serosal
surface is smooth and glistening. No identifiable nodules or abnormalities present. No
cystic lymph nodes identified. On opening the gallbladder surface is light green and
velvety with no identifiable calculi. There is a scant amount of thin green bile.
Average wall thickness is 0.3 cm. Representative sections of the body, fundus, and
cystic duct margin are submitted in cassette 31.

C. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "C — whipple's specimen at

The specimen consists of a whipple's procedure including proximal and distal duodenum,
pancreatic head, and pancreatic uncinate process. No pyloric sphincter or gastric mucosa
identified. Duodenum measures 21.2 cm in length and 6.5 cm in circumference. The distal
14.0 cm of duodenum is dusky and dark brown in color with sharp demarcation consistent
with ischemia. The proximal portion is light tan-brown with regular plicae circulares
extending from proximal to distal end. The bile duct extending to the ampulla of Vater
is bisected and opened prior to fixation. The area surrounding ampulla of Vater is
distinct from the surrounding duodenal mucosa. It is firm multinodular, dark-brown with
irregular border extending roughly 3.1 x 2.2 cm with some contraction distorting the
surrounding mucosal surface. Broad based nodules measure in size range from 0.2 to 0.5 cm
in greatest diameter. The full length of common bile duct to the ampulla of Vater is 4.8
cm with an average diameter of 0.3 cm. Please note, the margins are inked as follows:
Blue pancreatic resection margin, orange uncinate process, black vessel bed margin. The
pancreatic resection margin measures 2.3 x 1.8 cm with central pancreatic duct (0.2 cm in
diameter). The pancreatic duct can be probed only distally to a length of 1.8cm. Proximal
portion was not identified. Combined the pancreas measures 5.6 x 4.8 x 2.7 cm. The cut
surface of the common bile duct shows heterogenous light yellow, firm, irregular lesion
extending 3.0 cm from the ampulla of Vater into the common bile duct involving the
ampulla and duodenal submucosa. On cross sectioning, the tumor is solid, light—yellow,
firm, with no obvious areas of necrosis or hemorrhage. The tumor seems to occupy the
majority of uncinate process, head of the pancreas and grossly extends within 0.6 cm of
the pancreatic resection margin and fully involves the common bile duct closest to the
ampulla of Vater. The tumor itself, is poorly demarcated with a diffuse infiltrating
border into the normal pancreatic parenchyma. Grossly, the tumor measures 4.8 x 3.6 x

2.2 cm. The specimen was photographed. The representative sections are submitted as
follows:

C1. bile duct resection margin

02-5. duodenum and ampulla of Vater, adjacent section taken in a longitudinal
direction along the long axis of the common bile duct

C6. duodenum and common bile duct, adjacent to the ampulla of Vater, transverse

cross section to the direction of the common bile duct

C7. cross section through duodenum, tumor, and common bile duct, transverse
cross section to the direction of the common bile duct

C8. transverse cross section at the ampulla of Vater immediately includes

duodenum and
common bile duct immediately contiguous with cassette C6

C9. transverse cross section through duodenum, tumor, and the common bile duct.
0.5
cm away from C8 and is immediately contiguous with a section of C7
C10. duodenum. tumor, and common bile duct transverse cross section approximately
0.5 cm
away from cassette C9 and c7
C11. transverse cross section through common bile duct 0.5 cm distal from
cassette C10, includes vascular bed resection margin
C12. representative cross section of duodenum and tumor immediately adjacent to
Clo-11
C13. representative transverse section through retroperitoneal resection margin
including
uncinate process in orange
C14—15. representative sections of the retroperitoneal resection margins, transverse
including
uncinate process inked in orange, sections contiguous
C16. additional sections of the uncinate process immediately continuous with C13
C17. additional transverse cross section through uncinate process, immediately
continuous
with C14 and C15
Cit-20. pancreatic resection margin inked blue adjacent perpendicular cross sections
C21. proximal resection margin
C22. representative section of proximal normal duodenum
C23. representative section of normal distal duodenum

C24. distal resection margin

-. ‘ Page 4 of 4

C25. representative section of grossly normal pancreatic parenchyma

C26. four anterior peripancreatic possible lymph nodes

C27. three anterior peripancreatic possible lymph nodes

C28. two possible anterior peripancreatic lymph nodes bisected, one inked blue
C29. two possible inferior lymph nodes

C30. one possible superior lymph node

Additional cassettes designated as follows:
C31 to 33. additional vascular bed margins
C34. additional section of vascular bed margin

D. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "D — portal lymph node at .
The specimen consists of two pieces of dark grey to brown irregular piece of firm soft
tissue. The larger fragment measures 1.5 x 1.6 x 0.5 cm. The smaller fragment measures
1.2 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm. The possible resection surface is present revealing the presence of
a possible lymph node. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in cassettes D1

and D2.
E. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "E - branch of superior mesenteric
vein at The specimen consists of a single small fragment of tan-white firm tissue

with no grossly identifiable features measuring 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. Specimen is
submitted in toto in cassette E1.

F. Single piece, irregular soft fibrous tissue, extensive cautery edge. red-pink. One
suture present (cut away) 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm. Submitted in toto for

G. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "G — mesocolon lymph node". The
specimen consists of a single irregular piece of tan grey to brown fibrofatty tissue (3.6
x 2.0 x 0.5 cm). Within the fibrofatty tissue are two possible lymph nodes with the
largest measuring 2.0 cm and the second measuring 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. Both
lymph nodes are bisected and the first large lymph node is bisected and submitted in G1.
The smaller lymph node is bisected and submitted in 62.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
F. Retroperitoneal Margin:

— Negative for carcinoma. Conf #
Reported by: '
Pathologist Comment
Invasive moderately differentiated ductal carcinoma of the pancreas arising in the
background of PanIN3. Large cells with pleomorphic nuclei forming incomplete glands with
mucinous features (<50i). Atypical mitoses present and extensive desmoplastic response.
Adenocarcinoma involves duodenal muscularis mucosae, ampulla of Vater, and common bile
duct with focal epithelial cancerization. Cancer invades within 0.6 cm of the pancreatic
resection margin, 0.15 cm of the posterior resection margin, and is present at the
vascular bed resection margin. Distal common bile duct is denuded of epithelium likely
due to instrumentation (stent placement).

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Locaﬂon

Ditnasii Discrepanq
Prirna

    

/ DtSQUAuHEu

-nemgat—

