 

 

 

UUID:6F534DEF-868A-4F2c-sAs7-£4r7asszssur
TcaA-Hz-A49H-e1A-PR Reda'tlrted

timmmummmmmmmmummm
lHﬂmHHﬂHMIMHHHHmHHHIII

 

Patient Results

l HIIMHHHH
immmmmmmmmmmmmmwmwmm

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

_______ F
Surgical Pathology 3 Fin—ill]
Path Report Final
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ACCESSION NO. :

Final Diagnosis(es):

(A) Bile duct margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

(B) Pancreas margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

(C) Stomach. gallbladder. head of pancreas, bile duct,
duodenum, small bowel. Whippie' s procedure:

1) Pancreatic adenocarcinoma. moderately differentiated.

2) Tumor measures 2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

3) Tumor extends through the duodenal wall.

4) pT3 N1

5) t of 44 lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma

(2 mm in maximum dimension).

6) Perineurai and lymphvascular invasion identified.

7) See Synoptic report, below.

(D) Lymph node, superior pancreatic, excision; Negative for
metastatic carcinoma.

(E) Lymph node, hepatic duodenal, excision: Negative for
metastatic carcinoma.

(F) Lymph node, celiac, excision: Negativefor metastatic.
Synoptic Report:

Specimens: Head of pancreas, duodenum, stomach, common bile
duct and gallbladder.

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial
pancreatectomy.

Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.

Tumor Size: 2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma.

Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated.
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades duodenal wait.
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 3 mm
from posterior pancreatic soft tissue.

Treatment Effect: Not known.

Lymphvascular invasion: Present.

Perineurai invasion: Present.

Pathologic Staging:

Primary Tumor: pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but
without involvement of the celiac axis or

the superior mesenteric artery.

Regional Lymph Nodes: le: Regional lymph node
metastasis.

Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 47

Number of Lymph Nodes Involved: i (2 mm in maximum
dimension).

Additional Pathologic Findings: Chronic pancreatitis.

[ob/6’3 /
MMCW,M “”5 25,00 3
SIwa; watw 695'0

4/24/13”

 

Printed from: Default

 

Page: I of 5

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

Eiectronlcallv Signed
MD (Fellow)
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Bile duct margin
B: Pancreas margin
C: Stomach, gallbladder. head of pancreas. bile duct, duodenum,
small bowel
D: Superior pancreatic LN
E: Hepatic dudoenai LN
F: Ceilac LN
Clinical History:
Pancreatic cancer.
(A) Stitch marks margin of interest
(B) Stitch marks margin of interest.
(C) Tumor Bank.

lntraoperative Consultation:

Time Received: ’

Time Reported:

FSAt: Bile duct margin: Negative for malignancy (1 block).
FSBl: Pancreas margin: Negative for malignancy (1 block).

, MD.

Resident)
Gross Description:
(A) (bile duct margin) Received fresh for frozen section
evaluation with a stitch that marks the margin of interest is an
annular segment of gray-pink rubbery tissue that is 1.6 cm in
diameter x 0.4 cm long and 0.3 cm thick. having scant tan
inspissated material within the lumen. The specimen is entirely
submitted fresh for frozen section evaluation in cassette FSA1.
(B) (pancreas margin - the stitch marks the margin of interest)
Received fresh for frozen section evaluation is a 2.6 x 1.1 x
0.4 cm thick portion of tan-pink lobulated pancreatic parenchyma
with an eccentricaiiy located patent lumen 0.3 cm in diameter
consistent with a ductule. The specimen is entirely submitted
an face. fresh for frozen section evaluation in cassette FSBl .
(C) (stomach, gallbladder, head of pancreas, bile duct.
duodenum, small bowel)
Specimen components and dimensions: Received fresh for Tumor
Bank sampling is a head of pancreas that measures anterior to
posterior 5.5 cm, superior to interior 3.8 cm and medial to
lateral 3.4 cm. The portion of distal stomach measures
10.5 cm along the greater curvature, 5.8 cm along the lesser
curvature, 5.8 cm along the lesser curvature and 2.0 cm from
anterior to posterior. The portion of proximal duodenum
measures 21.0 cm in length and 2.8 cm in diameter. The
gallbladder is attached and measures 8.5 x 4.6 x 4.0 cm. The
common bile duct is stented. The margins are inked as follows:

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

Page: 2 MS

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

Pancreatic head anterior margin yellow, main pancreatic duct

red. uncinate margin green, vascular notch margin indigo, common
bile duct margin blue, posterior pancreatic margin black, and

the mucosa of the common bile duct orange.

Size. appearance. and location of tumor: The tumor is located
within the head of the pancreas. its site of origin appears to

be adjacent to the ampulla of Vater within the parenchyma of the
pancreas itself and measures 1.9 cm anterior to posterior, 2.8

cm superior to inferior. The tumor appears to elface the normal
morphology of the normal yellow lobuiated pancreas and is
replaced by a vague dull gray pale tan appearance with
ill-defined and vague borders.

Gross impression of invasive growth: The tumor does not appear
to grossly involve the bile duct or the pancreatic ducts and
appears limited to within the pancreatic parenchyma showing no
gross involvement with the duodenal mucosa and appears to abut
the ampulla.

Closest resection margins and distance: The ampulla, within 0.3
cm, the anterior margin within 0.3 cm.

Other ﬁndings: the tumor is free of the uncinate, vascular and
main pancreatic duct margin and shows no gross involvement with
the common bile duct margin.

Uninvolved tissues: Soft to rubbery, yellow lobuiated pancreas
with normal caliber ducts throughout the pancreas. The
gallbladder is red-brown, heavily congested with a smooth

serosa, 0.3 to 0.6 cm thick walls and bile-stained green,

velvety mucosal surfaces filled with green mucoid and viscous
bile showing no calculi. The cystic duct 0.2 cm in diameter and
showing no gross evidence of tumor. The stomach shows heavily
denuded mucosal surfaces corresponding with gastritis and the
duodenum is of normal tan-brown tightly folded mucosa showing no
focal lesion.

Lymph nodes attached: There are three within the pericommon
bile duct region, five within the posterior peripancreatic soft
tissue, nine within the anterior peripancreatic soft tissue and

four within the gastro-omental soft tissue of the greater

curvature with the lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 2.2 cm in
greatest dimension, the largest near the pericommon bile duct
region.

Blocks submitted:

Cl - tumor to ampulla, common bile duct duodenum and pancreatic
parenchyma

02-03 - tumor to distal common bile duct divided

C4 ~ additional sections of tumor to ampuila

C5 — central section of tumor

C26 - representative section of tumor to anterior and posterior
margins

C7 - main pancreatic duct margin

C8 - common bile duct margin

C9-C10 - vascular notch margin serially sectioned sequentially

 

Printed front: Default

 

Page: 3 n! 5

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

from posterior to anterior
Cl 1-C12 - uncinate margin sequentially from posterior to
anterior
C13-C15 - posterior/retroperitoneal margin submitted
sequentially from superior to inferior
C16-C17 - proximal gastric margin
C18 - representative sections of stomach
019 - representative sections of gallbladder
C20 - representative sections of duodenum
C21 - representative sections of distal duodenal margin
022 — two pericommon bile duct lymph nodes intact
C23 - six lymph nodes intact from the anterior peripancreatic
region
C24 - three lymph nodes intact from the anterior peripancreatic
region
C25 ~ four lymph nodes from the gastro—omental region (the four
lymph nodes from the posterior peripancreatic region are

' submitted as part of the posterior margin en face sections)
(D) (superior pancreatic lymph node) Received in formalin is a '
tan-pink rubbery lymph node that is 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension. it is trisected and submitted entirely in cassette
D1.
(E) (hepatic duodenal lymph node) Received in formalin is a
3.2 x 2.9 x 1.0 cm tan to red-brown rubbery tissue. it is
serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassettes E1 and
E2.
(F) (ceilac lymph node) Received in formalin is a tan-pink to
yellow. soft to rubbery tissue fragment that has a smooth
glistening external surface and measures 2.7 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. it
is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette F1.

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.
Histopathology has a list of lH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the
Histopathology Laboratory in the Department of Pathology at The
They

have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary for the ASR‘s. These tests are not investigational
and are used in standard clinical care. in cases where
lmmunohistochemistry testing is performed, the following

- antibodies and their respective clones may be used to determine
therapy for the patient: EFGR(31G7), ER(SP1), PR(1E2),
Her2neu(485). C0117(Poiy), CD20(L26).
Unless othenrvise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

Page: 4 of S

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

ERPR by lHC, Her2 by lHC and/or HER2 by FlSH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER, PR, Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-2/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue ﬁxed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

 

 

End of Report

Printed from: Default

 

Page: 5 nt' 5

 

 

