UUID:AS75531-8FCD-4954-9CI7-0E3834954657
TCGA-CQ-AMII-BlA-PR R

e acted
IHIIHI||l|ll||I|IIIII|||lll|||||||||I||Illlllllll||||||||||l||||||

IllllllllllHHIIIIHIIIII lllllllllll
m gllﬂllhlgllululllmllﬂll ll Illllll ll lllllllll ll III! “II III

Department of Pathology

 

 

Patient Name— Copath #.
MRN: Service: Otolaryngology Collected:
13013: Visit #: — Resulted:

GenderwIP Location:

HCN: Facility:

ordering MD: —

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ’61) 0 5
CWLW, bMaJm‘A SWQJL
* Addended * Was/3
. , ~ , M .W 00.0
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED “P";- 5'+"' W "‘ °’ C“
1. ch: RIGHT LEVEL 1 Mpg Mi, nus com? qib/W
2. ch: RIGHT LEVEL 2 PM“ ’ ﬂ

3. ch: RIGHT LEVEL 3 / SB
4. ch2 RIGHT LEVEL 4 / 5B .
5. Oral Cavity: Inferior right maxilla and buccal mucosa, long stitch
anterior, short buccal

6. Muscle: deep pterygoid margin

7. Fat: retroantral fat

DIAGNOSIS
1, 2, 3 and 4. Right neck dissection; levels I, II, III—V, and IV-VB.
One of forty—nine lymph nodes positive for squamous cell carcinoma (1/49).

a. The involved lymph node measures 1.2 cm.

b. Negative for extracapsular invasion.

c. The involved lymph node is in level I.

d. Submandibular gland with no pathologic changes. Negative for
carcinoma.

5. Oral cavity; inferior right maxilla and buccal mucosa.
Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated.

a. Maximum tumour dimension 3.0 cm.

b. Tumour thickness 1.7 cm.

c. Positive for lymphovascular invasion.

d. Negative for perineural invasion.

e. Margins negative for tumour. The tumour is close (< 0.1 cm)
to the deep superolateral margin.

f. Sections of bone are pending. An addendum report will
follow.

6 and 7. Deep pterygoid margin, and retro—antral fat.

Negative for carcinoma.

Status: supplemental

Page: 1 of 5

 

Patient Name—

MRN:

~ Copath #.
Service: Otolaryn ology Collected:
Visit #: ‘ Resulted:

DOB:
Gender, Location:
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD: -

 

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen:

Received:
Procedure:
maxillectomy and buccal mucosa

neck disssectiOn I-VB
Specimen Size:

Specimen Laterality:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Focality:
Tumor Size:
Histologic Type:
Histologic Grade:
Margins:
carcinoma

cm

is not applicable

Lymph—Vascular Invasion:
Perineural Invasion:

Lymph Nodes, Extranodal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):

Upper gingiva (gum)
Buccal mucosa (inner cheek)
Maxilla
Fresh
Maxillectomy: right inferior

Neck (lymph node) dissection: right

Greatest dimension: 6.5 cm
Additional dimension: 5.2 cm
Additional dimension: 4.0 cm
Right

Upper gingiva (gum)

Buccal mucosa (inner cheek)
Maxilla

Single focus

Greatest dimension: 3.0 cm
Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma
G3: Poorly differentiated
Margins uninvolved by invasive

Distance from closest margin: 0.05

Margin(s): superolateral deep margin
Margin status for carcinoma in situ

Present
Not identified
Not identified
Not applicable
pT2:Tumor more than 2 cm but not

more than 4 cm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): le: Metastasis in a single
ipsilateral lymph node, 3 cm or less in greatest dimension

Number of regional lymph nodes
examined: 49

Number of regional lymph nodes
involved: 1

Status: supplemental Page: 2 of 5

 

 
 

Patient Name-— copath #
MRN: _ Service: Otola ology Collected:
DOB: Visit #: ﬂ Resulted:

 

Gender: Location:

HCN: Facility:

ordering MD: I—

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

GROSS DESCRIPTION
1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck: Right

' level 1". The specimen consists of fibroadipose tissue that measures 8.0
x 4.0 x 2.0 cm. The submandibular gland is unremarkable and measures 4.0
x 3.0 x 2.0 cm. The remaining specimen demonstrates multiple lymph nodes
ranging in maximum dimension from 0.3 to 1.2 cm.

1A submandibular gland
13 3 lymph nodes
1C 1 lymph node

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patient’s name and as
"Neck: Right level 2“. The specimen consists of fibroadipose tissue that
measures 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.4 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified ranging
from 0.2 to 2.0 cm.

2A multiple lymph nodes

23 multiple lymph nodes

2C multiple lymph nodes

2D 3 lymph nodes
2E 1 lymph node

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as "Neck: Right
level 3/SB". The specimen consists of fibroadipose tissue that measures
3.5 x 4.0 x 2.2 cm. The tissue also includes a portion of unremarkable
muscle measuring 3.5 x 1.9 x 0.8 cm. Multiple lymph nodes that range
from 0.1 to 1.5 cm are identified.

3A multiple lymph nodes
3B two lymph nodes
3C multiple lymph nodes
3D 1 lymph node
Status: supplemental Page: 3 of 5

 

 
  
 

Patient Name- .- Copath #:
MRN: Service: Otolaryn ology Collected:
DOB: Visit #: * Resulted:

Gender. Location:
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD: -

 

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck: Right
level 4/5B". The specimen consists of fibroadipose tissue that measures
3.0 x 3.0 x 1.1 cm. Multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.1 to 1.2 cm
are identified.

4A three lymph nodes
4B five lymph nodes
4C three lymph nodes

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Inferior
right maxilla & buccal mucosa; stitch long anterior; short buccal". It
consists of an oriented en bloc resection of a segment of right maxilla
with adjacent buccal mucosa measuring 6.5 AP x 5.2 SI x 4.0 ML cm. The
maxilla has no teeth. There is a tumor arising in the oral mucosa at the
junction of the maxillary gingival mucosa and buccal mucosa. The tumor
measures 3.0 AP x 1.7 SI x 2.2 ML cm on the surface of the mucosa. It
has a maximum thickness of 1.7 cm. The tumor is white—tan and firm.
There is no gross involvement of bone by the tumour. The tumor is
located at <0.1 cm from the closest (superolateral) deep margin. The
distance from the tumor to the remaining margins: anterior mucosa and
soft tissue 0.6 cm, posterior mucosa and soft tissue 1.0 cm, inferior
buccal mucosa and soft tissue 0.6 cm, medial gingival mucosa and soft
tissue 0.3 cm, anterior mandible bone margin 0.8 cm, superior bone

margins 0.5 cm. Received separately is a portion of paper-thin bone
measuring 1.5 x 1.3 x 0.1 cm. Multiple pieces of tissue are stored
frozen. Representative sections are submitted.

5A tumor with anterior mucosa and soft tissue margin

SB tumor with posterior mucosa and soft tissue margin

5C tumor with inferior buccal mucosa and soft tissue margin

5D tumor with medial gingival mucosa and soft tissue margin

SE-SF tumor with superolateral deep margin

5G anterior mandibular resection margin, en face (decalcification)
5H superior bony margins, en face (decalcification)

SI posterior bony margins, en face (decalcification)

SJ separate piece of bone serially sectioned (decalcification)

5K tumor with bone (decalcification)

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Deep
pterygoid margin ". It consists of 3 pieces of tissue measuring
0.6 x 0.4 x 0 .3 cm, 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm and 0.2 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm. The
specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

6A frozen section control

Status: supplemental Page: 4 of 5

 

  

Patient Name :— Copath #
O

MRN: Service: tola ology Collected:
DOB: Visit #: & Resulted:

Gender‘I Location:

HCN: Facility:
Ordering MD: _

 

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Retro—antral
fat '. It consists of a piece of adipose tissue measuring 1.7 x 0.4 x
0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

7A frozen section control

QUICK SECTION
6. Deep pterygoid margin: Negative for carcinoma.
7. Retro— anteral fat: Negative for carcinoma.

Result reported to the:

Addendum Status: Signed Out
Date Reported:

Addendum Comment
Decalcified sections show focal invasion of periosteum by squamous cell
carcinoma. The bone margins are negative for tumor.

Status: supplemental Page: 5 of 5

Initials Dal! Reviewed:

 

 

