— ITEM-W

“iagnosis:

Kidney, left renal tumor #1, partial nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell (conventional) type (see comment)
Histologic grade {if applicable): Fuhrman nuclear grade 3 (of 4)
Tumor size {greatest dimension): 5.2 cm

Extent of tumor invasion:

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: negative for tumor
Gerota‘ s fascia: negative for tumor

Renal vein: N/A

Ureter: N/A

Venous (large vessel) not identified

Lymphatic {small vessel): not identified

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Perirenal adipose tissue: negative for tumor
Gerota' s fascia: negative for tumor

Renal parenchymal margin: negative for tumr
Renal vein: N/A

Renal artery: N/A

Ureter: N/A

Adrenal gland: not submitted
Lymph nodes: no lymph nodes submitted

other significant findings:
— Nonneoplastic kidney with moderate arteriosclerosis
- Benign simple renal cyst

AJCC Staging:
le pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

3: Kidney, left renal tumor #2, biopsy
— Benign cortical cyst, 1.5 cm {see comment)
- No evidence of malignancy

C: Kidney, left renal cyst wall #3, biopsy
- Fragments of benign simple renal cyst
— No evidence of malignancy

Comment:

Sections of specimen B "left renal tumor #2" Show a 1.5 cm cyst lined by cytological benign appearing cells
ranging in a earance from flattened to cuboidal. There are no solid areas or worrisome features to suggeSt
malignancy . has reviewed this specimen and agrees with the diagnosis.

Clinical History:
a renal mass.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is additionally labeled "left renal tumor #1, partial nephrectomy" and is a 134.6 gram, 7.5 x 7.5 x
6.5 cm partial nephrectomy covered with a small amount of fat. The exposed parenchymal margin is marked with
black ink and the capsule and perinephric soft tissue is marked with blue ink. The specimen is sectioned to
demonstrate a well—circumscribed 5.2 cm in diameter spherical yellow/brown solid nodule with focal softening and
hemorrhage. The mass expands the renal capsule but does not appear to extend into the perinephric fat. The

tumor is well-demarcated from the adjacent renal parenchyma which is remarkable for a 1 cm in diameter thins
walled clear fluid filled cyst {A4}. The tumor comes within 0.3 cm of the closest black inked parenchymal margin
and abuts the blue inked perinephric soft tissue in multiple areas but does not appear to go through.

Block Summary:
1 - Tumor expanding renal capsule
; — Tumor and normal
A3 - Tumor and closest approach to black inked parenchymal margin
M — Tumor and adjacent cyst
A5 — Tumor and blue inked perinephric soft tissue
A6 H Central tumor

 

Specimen B is received in a formalin—filled container labeled "left renal tumor #2" and is a 2.? x 1.8 x 1.0 cm
fragment of tissue composed of fat and a 2.4 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm fragment of gray/tan renal tissue. Embedded within
the renal tissue is an exposed 1.5 cm in diameter thin~walled membranous area, which may represent cyst wall. It
is lined by smooth glistening surfaces. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in blocks 81 and B2.

‘pecimen C is received in a formalin—filled container labeled "left renal cyst wall #3" and is a 1.6 x 1.1 x 0.6
cm glistening yellow/white membranous tissue fragment, sectioned and entirely submitted in block Cl.

 

