UUID:31816D42-F13A-4A85-8659-ODEA359F7EAeEd

ZCDO;3

TCGA- N8- A4PQ--91A PR , f
IIIIIIII|III||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIII||||IIed my “mi/97am (an Whoa! Tum»

|||

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||||||||||||I||||||||||l| IlIIII 99505

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||I|II SURGICAL PATHOLOGY 5%: gMDWﬁQm/ €54 I

'7 Case Number: /2//c///2 C/ng
Diagnosis:

 

A: Uterus, cervix and right adnexa, hysterectomy and right
salpingo~oophorectomy:

Location of tumor: Predominantly posterior endometrium.

Histologic type: Malignant mixed m llerian tumor with
heterologous elements (serous carcinoma and malignant
cartilaginous and rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation) [See
comment].

Histologic grade (FIGO): Grade 3

Extent of invasion: Minimal myometrial invasion, extensive
lymphovascular space invasion and lymph node involvement.

Myometrial invasion: Inner half (A10 and All)
Depth: 2mm Wall thickness: 25mm Percent: 8%

Serosal involvement: Absent.

Lower uterine segment involvement: Present as lymphovascular
space invasion only.

Cervical involvement: Present as lymphovascular space invasion
only.

Adnexal involvement: Present as lymphovascular space invasion
surrounding right fallopian tube

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: Widely negative.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present and extensive.

Regional lymph nodes (see parts B—D):
Total number involved: 13
Total number examined: 18

Other pathologic findings:

— Cervix: Otherwise unremarkable

— Endometrium: Endometrial intraepithelial carcinoma.

— Myometrium: Multiple leiomyomata (measuring up to 4.0 cm)
— Left fallopian tube remnant: Changes consistent with prior

tubal ligation and peritubal cyst.

— Right ovary: Age related changes and benign inclusion cysts
— Right fallopian tube: Changes consistent with prior tubal
ligation.

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pTla pN2 pr
FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: IIIC2

B: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional dissection:
— Three of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic malignancy

(3/8).

C: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional dissection:

— Four of four lymph nodes pOSitive for metastatic malignancy
(4/4).

D: Lymph nodes, right peri—aortic, regional dissection:
— Six of six lymph nodes positive for metastatic malignancy
(6/6).

Comment:

An immunohistochemical stain for myogenin was performed on block
A13 with appropriate controls; the myogenin is focally positive,
which is supportive of the above diagnosis.

Clinical History:
—year—old female with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are four formalin-filled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "uterus and cervix, right
ovary and tube."

Adnexa: right tube and ovary present and attached; left
fallopian tube remnant attached

Weight: 135.0 grams

Shape: pear shaped

Dimensions:

height: 8.3 cm

anterior to posterior width: 6.4 cm

breadth at fundus: 4.7 cm

 

Serosa: tan/brown, smooth and glistening with adhesions on the
posterior surface

Cervix:

ectocervix: tan/white, smooth

endocervix: tan/yellow, trabecular

length of endocervical canal: 2.4 cm

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 2.7 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 2.0 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 4.5 x 4.1 x 3.7 cm

appearance: tan/brown, soft, polypoid, multinodular

location and extent: The majority is located in posterior
endometrial cavity, present in anterior endometrial cavity,
grossly does not appear to extend to lower uterine segment.
myometrial invasion: outer one—half

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 2.3 cm
other findings or comments: In the anterior myometrium there is
a 4.0 x 3.4 x 1.9 cm well circumscribed white/pink soft
intramural nodule. This nodule encompasses almost the entire
myometrium and is reminiscence of a classic fibroid.

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 2.1 x 1.8 x 1.1 cm

external surface: tan/yellow, smooth with adhesions

cut surface: grossly unremarkable

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 3.8 cm in length, 0.4 cm in diameter

other findings: The tube is received discontinuance, proximal
portion of right fallopian tube has a patent lumen. The distal
portion of the right fallopian tube is brown/gray with a
pinpoint lumen. Also, there is one focal area of possible
fallopian tube with multiple paratubal cysts about 0.1 cm to 0.3
cm in range.

Left ovary: absent

Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 1.1 cm in length, 0.4 cm in diameter

other findings: patent lumen, paratubal cyst measuring 1.0 x 0.8
x 0.7 cm filled with dark yellow mucinous material; fimbria is
absent

Lymph nodes: none submitted

Other comments: anterior parametrium is inked in blue for
orientation

Digital photograph taken: no

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes; tumor is
submitted to the tumor procurement foundation

 

 

Block Summary:

A1 — anterior cervix

A2 - anterior lower uterine segment

A3,A4 — mid corpus, full thickness, bisected

A5,A6 — anterior upper corpus, full thickness, bisected

A7 - posterior cervix

A8 — posterior lower uterine segment

A9 — posterior mid corpus, full thickness

A10,All — posterior upper corpus, full thickness, bisected
A12-A14 — additional sections of tumor

A15 — left fallopian tube remnant and paratubal cyst

A16 « right ovary and right proximal fallopian tube, transverse
section

A17 - right fallopian tube, distal portion

A18 — longitudinal section of right fallopian tube tip and
fimbria

Tissue remains in formalin.

 

Container B is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes."

It consists of a 5.0 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm aggregate of fatty tissue
fragments. The tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates.

Seven lymph node candidates were identified ranging from 0.3 to

3.6 x 2.1 x 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. ggg

Block Summary:

B1-B6 — one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B7 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B8,BB - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
B10 - multiple lymph node candidates

811—813 — remainder of specimen with potential lymph node
candidates,

Container C is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes."
It consists of a 4.0 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm aggregate of fatty tissue
fragments. The specimen is dissected for lymph node candidates.

Four lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.5 to 1.2
x 0.6 x 0.5 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

C1-C4 — one lymph node candidate, each, serially sectioned
C5—C9 - remainder of specimen with potential lymph node
candidates,

Container D is additionally labeled "right periaortic lymph 3}

 

 

nodes.‘ It consists of a 2.3 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm fatty tissue
fragment. The specimen was dissected for lymph node candidates.
Three lymph node candidates are identified ranging from 0.2 to
1.5 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

D1 — one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

D2 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

D3 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

D4 — remaining tissue for possible lymph node candidates,

 

 

 

 

