 

llJID: 8096A131- 0451- 4057- BDAS- ZSSZDBORTGSBIac
TCGA-Hz- UASPG 01A- PR

||| IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllilllllilllllIIIIIIIIIIIIII Rerem” Phys‘ciam

 

 

 

II IIIII II I' IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII III I““""" II III III
008: Age: Gender:M
Reﬁt: Hosp#:' Provider Group :
Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatient Case #:
' Room: Bed: Date Reported:
.-

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ICWD O 3

Diagnosis: WM 9 MSG-3,3

A. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: 5.212 W) 535‘ D
- Mild chronic cholecystitis. % 1.)) 7 IL}

B. PANCREAS, STOMACH, DUODENUM, WHlPPLE PROCEDURE:
- Invasive ductal adenocarcinoma, well-differentiated.
« Tumor size: 3.1 cm.
- Tumor invades into peripancreatic soft tissue.

- Ten of nineteen lymph nodes POSITIVE for metastatic adenocarcinoma (10119).
- Surgical margins negative.

C. LYMPH NODES, LEFT RENAL VEIN AREA, REGIONAL RESECTION:
— Four lymph nodes POSITIVE for metastatic adenocarcinoma (4M).

D. LYMPH NODE, COMMON BILE DUCT, BIOPSY:
.. One lymph node POSITIVE for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/1).

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (EXOCRINE PANCREAS):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well-differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3.
Regional lymph nodes: pN1.
Distant metastasis: NIA.
Pathologic stage: "3.
Lymphovascular invasion: Present.
Margin status: R0, negative.

Exocrine Pancreas Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, June 2012

Case #2 Page 1

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

MR No. Patient Nami

Pathology - Page 1/5 Paget Doc#1

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

 

 

Case #:
Specimen: Whipple specimen.
Procedure: Whipple procedure.
Tumor site: Head of pancreas.
Tumor size: 3.1 cm.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade:

Microscopic tumor extension:

Margins:

Treatment effect:
Lymph-vascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Lymph nodes:

Pathologic Staging:
Primary tumor
Regional lymph nodes
Distant metastasis
Pathologic stage

GI , well-differentiated.

Tumor extends into peripancreatic
soit tissue.

R0. negative. tumor 0.1 cm from
posterior margin, 3.2 cm from
pancreatic margin. distant from
gastric and duodenal margins.
N/A.

Present.

Not identiﬁed.

Fiﬂeen of twenty-four lymph nodes
positive for metastatic carcinoma.

pT3.
pNt .
MA.
MB.

 

 

Source of Sgecimen:
A. Gallbladder

B. Whipple
C. Lymph node;Lelt renal vein nodes
D. Lymph node;Common bile duct node

Clinical HistoglOgerative Dx:
Neoplasm of the head of the pancreas.

lntraogerative Diagnosis:

B. (Frozen section x3) Whipple procedure:

Case #1
Printed:

Page 2

This report continues... (FINAL)

MR No. -

.ItientNamn
Pathoiogy — Page 2/5

. Page 2 Doc# 1

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

 

Case #2

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

— Bile duct and pancreatic margin negative.
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in lymph node.

The inhaoirative inleiretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at—

Gross Description:

A. Part A designated gallbladder. Received in formalin is an intact gallbladder. 8.7 x 2.6 x 2.3 cm. The
serosa is glistening slightly fatty tan-green. The cystic duct margin demonstrates a 1 mm lumen that is
probe patent. The wall is 0.1 cm, and the lumen contains a copious amount of viscous dark green bile
with a few minute particulate and no well formed calculi. The mucosa is velvety. dark green without
grossly unusual areas of change suggestive of neoplasia. No grossly unusual areas of change are
suggestive of neoplasia. Representative sections are submitted in A1 and A2.

8. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section evaluation is a generous portion of tissue consistent
with a Whipple procedure specimen. The Whipple consists of a generous portion of the antrum of
stomach, 11.0 cm along the greater, 7.2 cm along the lesser curvature. 5.6 cm in diameter at the proximal
margin of resection; the small bowel length is 22.5 cm. 2.5 cm in diameter at the distal margin of

resection and 3.2 cm in diameter nearlhe head of the pancreas; the pancreas is up to 4.8 cm in length,
4.4 cm superior—inferior, and 4.0 cm posterior-anterior. The common bile duct extends 0.5 cm and 0.8 cm
in diameter, with a 0.5 cm patent lumen. A stent protrudes from the bile duct margin. A long silk suture
marks the distal pancreatic surgical margin and demonstrates a 0.25 cm diameter duct that is probe
patent. The pancreatic surfaces/margins are differentially inked as follows: anterior - yellow, superior -
blue, interior - green, posterior ~ black and the pancreatic notch marked red.

The stomach is opened along the greater curvature and the length of the small bowel is opened revealing
the ampulla of Vater oriented 7.0 cm distal to the pylorus, slightly raised and granular, dusky red, over an
area of 1.0 x 0.7 cm. The common bile duct is probe patent with the AV. The pancreatic duct inserts into
the small bowel just 0.3 cm inferior to the AV (does not communicate). Sectioning through the head of the
head of the pancreas reveals an ill-defined. mucinous, light gray to admixed yellow, mass lesion within
the superior head of the pancreas. measuring upwards of 3.1 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. Grossly, the tumor is 1.2 cm
away from the distal pancreatic margin. The tumor is within 0.1 cm of the superior margin, 0.1 cm of the
posterior ( including pancreatic notch), 1.7 cm from inferior, and 0.3 cm from anterior. Near the CBD, there
is a palpable, ﬁrm lymph node that is sectioned, revealing a mucinous, dense, light gray appearance. The
bile duct margin. pancreatic margin and lymph node are submitted/represented for frozen section
evaluation. A representative portion of the grossly positive lymph node and possible tumor within the head
of the pancreas is submitted for studies - tumor bank. The tumor partially abuts the small
bowel wall along the superior-anterior head of the pancreas with a single 0.2 cm focus of involvement
through the small bowel muscularis (B7). The tumor partially abuts the (:80, however, the length of the
lumen is wrinkled and light tan without gross invasive tumor. The grossly uninvolved pancreas is
semi-congested-intlamed. lobular, yellow-tan parenchyma, with transient areas of lnduration-density.
Examination of the peripancreatic fat reveals nineteen lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 cm to 2.0 x 1.? x
0.8 cm each. The presence of invasive tumor within the fat makes lymph node identiﬁcation difﬁcult.

Case #2

Page 3
Printed:

This report continues... (FINAL)

MR No. -

. Patient N -
Pathology - Page 3/5 h - Page3 Doc# 1

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case #:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

The gastric mucosa is-severely congested, dusky, deep red without discrete ulceration, polypoid changes
or induration of the gastric wall. lMthin 8.5 cm of the distal small bowel margin of resection, the mucosa is
markedly congested, dusky red, abruptly transitioning to a light tan prominent circular pllca through the
remainder of the proximal length. No lesions appreciated. Examination of the scant amount of perigastric
fat along the greater curvature does not reveal lymph node content. Examination of thefat associated
with the lesser curvature reveals softened, red-tan lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 0.4 cm.

Cassette summary:

81) bile duct margin, FS,

82) pancreatic margin, FS,

83) lymph node near bile duct margin, FS,

84-85) ampulla of Voter including adjacent pancreatic duct relationship - head of pancreas,
BS) pancreatic duct - small bowel relationship,

87) small bowel, head of pancreas, invasive tumor,

88) tumor, common bile duct within head of pancreas,

89) distal end of pancreas, margin trimmed for frozen section now marked orange and tumor relationship,
810) anterior pancreas, possible lymph node content, tumor,

811) posterior pancreas, near distal margin of resection,

812) posterior pancreas, uncinate aspect, tumor within fat,

813-814) superior pancreas, tumor,

815) mesenten'c groove/pancreatic notch, tumor,

816) inferior pancreas, possible lymph node content,

B17) large lymph node formeny sampled for F8 evaluation, involved with tumor.
818) uninvolved pancreas,

819) anterior and posterior, proximal gastric margin of resection,

820) distal small bowel margin of resection,

821) four lymph nodes, perigastric fat,

822) live lymph nodes, peripancreatic,

823) ﬁve lymph nodes, peripancreatic,

824) two lymph nodes, biSected, one marked orange, peripancreatic,

825) two lymph nodes, bisected. one marked orange, pancreatic,

826) two lymph nodes, bisected. one marked orange, pancreatic,

827) large lymph node, bisected, pancreatic.

828) single lymph node, bisected, pancreatic-

829) grossly positive node, sectioned and submitted. pancreatic.-

C. Part C designated leﬂ renal vein nodes. Received in formalin is a 8 gram portion of yellow-tan fatty soft
tissue, 3.6 x 2.8 x 2.3 cm. Examination reveals four lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 cm - 2.1 x 1.8 cm each.

The largest node may represent multiple adherent-matted lymph nodes. Lymph node tissue is entirely
submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary:
01) single lymph node,
82) two lymph nodes bisected, one marked green,

Case #

Page 4
Printed:

_ This report continues... (Fl NAL)

MR No.

Pathology — Page 4/5 Page4 Doc# 1

 

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case #:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
C3-C5) largest lymph node. I

D. Part D designated common bile duct node. Received in formalin is a yellow—tan portion of fatty soft
tissue 1.7 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm. Surgical clips are present, removed and the tissue was examined revealing two

distinct lymph nodes 0.3 and 0.4 cm each. The two lymph nodes including the residual fat are submitted
together between two sponges in D1.-

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

8. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

Case #:
Printed:

MR No. «
Pathology - Page 5/5

 

 

