 

UUID: 28115619- 9EDD- 41D9- A912- ZSDSBCB'gBEDCIIac
TCGA- -|J-5 A77E- 01A- PR

 

 

 

 

 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'W' m ’3
IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII W $1730
a 2 S b
I.
A
SPECIMEN mus: Whipples T
AMENDED REPORT 3
CLINICAL NOTES: L
Whippie's specimen. Pancreatic Ca. Periportal lymph node. PerlSMA lymph
node. Pericoellac axis tissue. PeriSMA neural plexus. Perlpancreatic lymph 0
node. Perlhepatlc tissue. Wet well. Liver. From Whipple's procedure. G
FROZEN SECTION OPINION: Common bile duct margin is clear and the neck margin Y
there' is tumour 1.3mm to diathermied margin. (Message to
MACROSCOPIC:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR WHIPPLE'S HESEGHON
MACROSCOPIC:
A) The specimen was received fresh from theatres for frozen section opinion
and consists at a Whipple's specimen.
Specimen labelled: Whippie's specimen. A
Specimen Type: N
Pancreaticcduodenectcmy (Whipple's resection). partial pancreatectomy A
Specimen dimensions: T
Length of duodenum: 190mm
Length of lesser curve oi stomach: 30mm 0
Length at greater curve oi stomach: 60mm M
Size oi gailbladder: 80mm in length and up to 30mm In maximum diameter..
Wall thickness oi gallbladder: 2mm I
Caiculi in gallbladder: Not present. 0
Size oi and weight of spleen: NIA
Length of bile duct: 55mm A
Maximum diameter of bile duct: 14mm L
Size of pancreas: 40 x 45 x 40mm
Location of stem: Not present.
Tumour location: P
Tumour: A
Conﬁguration: Infiltratlve T
Description: Pals and glistening cut surtace with macroscopic mucin. H
O
S L
o l
_ m _ ‘ ‘ a
Y
I ww- 'couw- mmo- a... _

 

 

 

 

 

      

- . k‘au‘wu

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Whipples

Tumour Size:
Greatest dimension: 35mm

Distance of tumour to margins:

Pancreatic neck: On lrozen section is 1.2mm

Perlunclnate sch tissue: 5mm

Posterior retroperitoneal: 10mm

Portal vein bed: There is vein overlying the portal vein bed margin. The vein
appears to be involved. Tumour is seen extending to the portal vein bed and
involving the overlying vein wall.

Anterior pancreatic capsule: >10rnm

Common bile duct: >30mm

Proximal Intestinal/gastric: 70mm

Distal intestinal margin: 140mm

Proximal pancreatic margin (applicable to distal pancreatsctomles only):

Additional gross pathologlc findings:

Chronic pancreatltls is present. There is a 12mm polyp within the duodenum.
The stomach and gallbladder are otherwise unremarkable.

The portal vein bed and overlying vein have been inked red, the perluncinate
salt tissue margin has been inked black.

Blocks 1 to 6 - frozen section

Block 1 - common bile duct margin

Blocks 2 to 6 - pancreatic neck margin In longitudinal section

Blocks 7 and 8 - sections through the portal vein bed and overlying vein
Blocks 9 to 11 — sections through the perluncinale soil tissue margin
Block 12 - intestinal margins

Block 13 - a 712mm polyp irom the duodenum

Block 14— sectlons of gallbladder

Block 15 - a section of tumour

Block 16 - one lymph node

Block 17 - three lymph nodes

Representative sections in 17 blocks.

B) ‘Periportal lymph node'. The specimen consists at a piece of Iibroiatty
tissue 30mm in maximum extent. All embedded in one block

C) ‘PerlSMA lymph node'. The specimen consists at a lymph node 12mm In
maximum extent. All embedded in one block.

D) 'Perlcoeliac axis tissue”. The specimen consists of a place oi libroiatty

 

 

 

 

rm-c.....-............ —

 
 

“‘15 ,géQW-Trbﬁig . 3W5 ---z.s’téa.‘Ar=-m:itf*r

..» ,
.ia. .m aim”: 4 walks-Semi.

 

<90r014>1

<QOP014>U F>O-§Od>2>

 

 

    

* m .xxwr'r:
SPECIMEN was: Whip“...

tissue 20mm in maximum extent. All embedded in one block.

E) 'PerlSMA neuropiexus'. The specimen consists 01 two pieces of tan tissue 5
and 7mm In maximum extent. All embedded in one block.

F) ‘Peripancreatlc nymph node’. The specimen consists of two pieces of
librolatty tissue 25 and 5mm in maximum extent. All embedded In one block.
G) ‘Perlhepatic tlssue‘. The specimen consists of a piece of Ian tissue 20mm
in maximum extent. All embedded in one block.

H) ‘Cyst wall'. The specimen consists of a fragment or cyst wall 24 x 12mm to
a thickness of 3mm. The lining appears glistening. No obvious solid areas are
present. Trisected and all embedded in block 1.

l) ‘Livsr‘. The specimen consists ot a piece of ten tissue 24 x 15 x 6mm.
Serially sectioned and all embedded in blocks 1 and 2.

MICROSCOPIC:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR WHIPPLE'S RESEC'TION:

Tumour location: head

Histologlc type (IMHO classification): adenocarcinoma

HIstoIogIc grade (TNM grading system): Poorly differentiated Ga

Tumour size: 35mm (macroscopic measurement).

Extension out at pancreas: present

Small vessel (capillary/lymphatic) invasion: present

Large vessel (vein/artery) Invasion: Tumour is present within the media at the
portal vein segment

Perineural invasion: present including large nerves in perlpancreatlo soft
tissue at the portal vein bed

Perlneural invasion of retroperitcneal (peduncinate) neural plexus: not
Identiﬁed.

Distance ot Invasive tumour trorn resection margins:

Pancreatic neck: lnvclved- tumour ls seen within 0.1 mm of this margin (Block
A2)

Periunclnate soil tissue: 1mm

Posterior retroperitoneal: 10mm

Portal vein bed: tumour ls 0.2mm from the soft tissue margin of the portal vein
bed (Block A7)

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Where 'cuw Indicates ﬂee:

 

<QOI'OI-I>‘

<00r014>t P>O~§Od>z>

 

 

   

SPECIMEN TYPE: Whipplee
Common bile duct: >30mm

Lymph nodes lrorn main resection specimen: 2 cl 6 lymph nodes are involved by
adenocercinoma

Separately received lymph nodes:

'Perlportal lymph node'- Four lymph nodes are present. No evidence of
malignancy Is seen.

'Pericoellac axis tlssue'- A single lymph node is present. No evidence of
malignancy is seen.

'Perlpancreatic lymph node'- Fragments ot a single lymph node are present. No
evidence of malignancy is seen.

'Perihepatic tissue'- A single lymph node is present. There is no evidence of
malignancy.

The tissue labelled 'Peri SMA (specimen 8) is composed primarily 01 blood and
tibrln but does include a small amount of adipose tissue. Some displaced
glandular epithelium is present within the blood but no evidence oi malignancy

is seen.

The tissue labelled “Perl SMA neuroplexus (specimen E)ls composed of adipose
tissue within which several large nerves are contained. No evidence of
malignancy is seen.

Highest grade of Pan—In present: 3
Grade of Pan-In st pancreatic neck resection margin: is

Pethcieglc Staging (pTNM, AJCO 7th edition 2009)
Staged as: Pancreatic ductal carcinoma:

pT: 3

pN: 1

Overall stage: “3
Additional pathologlc comments and findings In other reeected organs:

The 12mm duodenal polyp is a tubulovlllcus adenoma. No high grade dysplasla or
carcinoma ls present.

Specimen H - The cyst wall is cornprlsed ot a cuboldal epithelium overlying
fibrous tissue. The appearances are consistent with a simple biliary cyst.

Specimen I - Sections oi liver show a subcapsulsr. well circumscribed area at
ccsguiative necrosis which Is contained by a hyalinlsed tibrous capsule and is

 

 

 

 

I wanton-cw mm me: —

 

 

 

<00rozd>1

<QOPOIH>U F>O-§OH>Z>

 

 

' ' Lab Nb

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Whippiee

associated with some inﬂammation at the margin. The appearance is most in
keeping with a solitary necrotic nodule. The cause of such nodules is

uncertain. it is thought that they probably represent the end stage at a

variety of lesions. with a large proportion representing degenerate
haemangiomata. The surrounding liver shows preserved iobular architecture with
mild non-specific portal inflammation and local cholestasis.

SUMMARY:

Tumour type: Adenocarcinoma

Tumour grade: Poorly differentiated (83)

Tumour location: Head of panacea

Tumour size: 35mm

Lymph nodes: 2 of 10 lymph nodes contain tumour

 

 

 

 

 

_ I Where 'Ceilected' indicateeﬂec:

Stage: "3
Margins: Tumour Is seen at (within 0.1mm) the pancreatic neck and 0.2mm of the
portal vein margin.
HEPOBnNG PATHOLOGIST: .
(Electronic Signature)
8' "7 r?
I:
Reviewer inituls Reviewed:
Page, 5- of 5 l

 

 

<QOI'OI-l>'ﬂ

<QOFOIﬂ>1 r>O-304>z>

 

