UUID:454814C5-DD25-4249-85A6-7163SDD756F7
TCGA-KQ-A41P-91A-PR

 

IllllllIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllelllllalllm
munlummnnmmumnmu munmmuumm
IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll

Surgical Patholow Laboratory

 

 

 

al Pathology Report
In Lab Date:
Report Date:
, Submitted by:
N7 Telephone:
Location:
Copy To: m .—

 

 

CLINICAL INFORMATION: f ’
CA bladder.

Specimen submitted: A. Bladder, prostate and seminal vesicle: B. Leﬁ pelvic lymph node; C. Leﬂ para aortic tissue; D. Right
pelvic lymph node; B. Lell distal ureter; F. Right distal ureter

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Bladder, prostate gland, and seminal vesicles (radical cysroprostalectomy):

Bladder:
Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma.

Tumor grossly and microscopically invades through the muscularis propria into perivesieal list @7311).
Invasive carcinoma is centered primarily in the trigone and left lateral wall;

however, tumor also involves the right lateral wall, bilateral ureteral oriﬁces,

and extends into the anterior and posterior walls.

Feel of urothelial carcinoma in sltu are present throughout the bladder.

Extensive vascular invasion is present,

and metastatic tumor deposits are noted in perivesieal soft tissue,

as well as within prostatie stroma (ego, slides A46, A48; le).

Perineural invasion is present.

Tumor very focally abuts the inked anterior and posterior soft tissue resection margins.
Distal urethral and bilateral ureteral margins are negative for carcinoma.

Prostate:

Multifocal prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 3+3=6.

Tumors are organ-conﬁned and present as two microscopic foci,

present in the right anterior para-apex (slide A38) and right anterior para-base (slide A50).
No angiolymphatic invasion by prostatic carcinoma is identified.

Seminal vesicles and all surgical margins are negative for prostatic carcinoma.

iCD’O’g
TNM(bladder): pT3b N3 M1 carctno ,wfbll “dams 3120/3“

TNM (prostate): pTIa N0 Mx S We! P A44» : bla data/09$ C" 7' q 7,2342
C6395? bladder, imam C920 to
99mm: Given the extent of lymph node dissection (see Parts B, C, and D), it is assumed that some of the nodes represent

common iliac lymph nodes. which are considered secondary sites of regional lymph node drainage and staged as pNJ. Please
correlate with clinical and intraoperative ﬁndings to confirm the above pathologic “N" stage.

 

Page i or]

 

 

 

M - v

B. Lymph nodes, left pelvis (ercisr'on):
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving all fourteen lymph nodes (14Il4).
The largest tumor deposit measures at least 2.1 cm (microscopic).
Extranodal extension of the carcinoma is identified.

C. Para—aortic tissue, left (ercision):
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving all the lymph nodes (SIS).
Tumor grossly spans the entire length of the specimen, which measured 7 cm in greatest extent.
Extranodal extension of the carcinoma is identiﬁed.

D. Lymph nodes, rig/rt pelvis (excision):
Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving all ﬁfteen lymph nodes (15/15).
The largest tumor deposit measures at least 1.9 cm (microscopic).
Extranodal extension of the carcinoma is identified.

E. Ureter, left distal (excision):
Segment of ureter with acute and chronic inﬂammation and reactive epithelial changes.
No carcinoma identified.

F. Ureter, right distal (excision):
Segment of ureter with acute and chronic inflammation and reactive epithelial changes.
No carcinoma identiﬁed.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A. Received fresh. the specimen is labeled "bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles" and consists of bladder, prostate and seminal
vesicles. The specimen measures 16 x l2 x 5.5 cm. The bladder measures 7.5 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm. The anterior aspect of the bladder is
inked green and the posterior aspect ofthe bladder is inked black. The right ureter is 0.8 cm in length and 0.9 cm in diameter with a
stent in place. The left ureter is L4 cm in length and 0.9 cm in diameter also with a stent in place. The specimen is opened from the
anterior aspect of the prostate and bladder to reveal a 2.2 x 2.0 x 0.4 cm area of ﬁrmness with ulceration and necrosis in the area of
the bladder neck/trigone extending into the let) and right lateral walls. A section of the ulcerated area is Submitted for research. The
posterior wall mucosa adjacent to the ulcerated areas is polypoid and erythematous. The specimen is representatively submitted.
The prostatectomy specimen includes a 4.5 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm prostate, a 4.5 x L7 3: LG cm let) seminal vesicle, a 7.0 x 0.7 cm left vas
deferens, a 4.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm right seminal vesicle and a 9.0 x 0.3 cm right vas deferens. The right side of the specimen is inked
green. and the leﬁ side is inked black. The seminal vesicles and apical margins are shaved and submitted. The apical margin is
shaved and submitted. The prostate is serially sectioned from the apex to base with sections designated from A to E. respectively.
On sectioning, multiple nodular and cystic areas are seen. The prostate is submitted entirely. Summary of sections: A l-urethral
margin; A2-rigitt urcteral margin Alt-left ureteral margin; A4-A7 representative bladder neck with ulcer (adjacent to the sections
taken for research) ; A8-left UVJ area: A9~right UVJ area with ulceration; AlO-prostatic urethra to bladder neck; Al l-A l3-anterior
wall: Al4-Al6-bladder neck with ulceration: Al7-A I 8-posterior wall; A20-A22—leﬂ wall; A23-A25—right wall; A26-A28-dome;
A29-A-3 l-trigone: A32-RSV: A33-LSV; AIM-RA apex; A35-RP apex; A36—LA apex; A37-LP apex; ASS-RA A; A39-RP A;
A40«LA A; A4 l-LP A: A42-RA B; A43-RP B; A44-LA B; A45-LP B; A46-RA C; A47-RP C; A48-LA C; A49-RL C: A50~RA D;
A5 l-RP D; A52-LA D; A53-LP D; ASA-RA E; ASS-RP E; A56-LA E; AS1—LP E. (Note: R=Right; L=Letl; A=Anterion
P=posterior)

B. Received fresh. the specimen is labeled "leti pelvic lymph node" and consists of aggregate of red-tan soil tissue measuring 6 x 6
x 2 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted. Summary of sections: Blcone lymph node; BZ-B-one lymph node bisected:
B4-two lymph nodes: BS-i'tvc lymph nodes; Bﬁ—B9-one lymph node bisected each cassette.

C. Received fresh. the specimen is labeled “right paranortic tissue" and consists of a 7 x 2 x 2 cm piece of ﬁrm ﬁbrofatty tissue
with multiple matted lymph nodes. The specimen is sequentially sectioned and entirely submitted. Summary of sections: Cl~C l 0.
D. Received fresh, the specimen is labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and consists of a 4 x l x l cm aggregate of fat and lymph
node. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted. Summary of sections: Dl-one bisected lymph node; DZ-DS-multiple intact lymph
nodes.

E. Received fresh, the specimen is labeled "left distal ureter" and consists of segment of ureter measuring I cut in length and 0.3
cm in diameter. There is stitch marking on one end. The specimen is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: El-with stitch: E2.
F. Received fresh. the specimen is labeled "right distal ureter“ and consists of a segment of ureter measuring 4 cm in length and 0.8
cm in diameter. There is stitch marking on one end. The specimen is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: Fl-FS-right distal
ureter (Fl-with stitch). t

 

l‘agc2ol'3

 

‘ ‘ A
‘ —..——— —.

‘" Electronically Signed Out "’

Attending Pathologist
sl whose slgnature appears on this report has reviewed the dlngnostlc slides.

The attending pathologi
port in rendering the final diagnosis.

and has edited the gross and microscopic portions of the re

Slides: A—57. ll-9. C-IO. 06. [5-2. F-S

 

END or REPORT Page 3 of}

