/Cb~a’ 3
WW ”WWW/”97%, Mas 9380/3
Situjndmwfm £54.! W

V/dk // /I

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

UUID: DB7D72BC- F9C7- 4726- 98F4- MF6425125Ce6d
TCGA- EO—A22U-01A-PR

F Ill IllllIlllllIlllllll|||l|||l|||||||||||l|||lll||llllllllelllllllllcEd
lllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll
IllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllll

Gender:

 

Specimenls) Received
1. Ovary: bilateral. bilateral fallopian tubes, uterus and cervix
2. Omentum: Omental biopsy

 

Diagnosis

1. Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes:

Uterus. . ﬂ . . ,.
éW addnocarcinoma, endometriold typo , FlGO grade 3/3’with:

- Maximum tumour dimension. 2. cm

-|nvasion into the outer half of the myometrium

- Negative for involvement of cervix

- No evidence of lymphovascular space invasion

- Other: multiple intramural leiomyomata, adenomyosis

Right fallopian tube: paratubal cysts
Left fallopian tube: paratubal cysts
Bilateral ovaries: no diagnostic pathology

PLEASE SEE COMMENT and SYNOPTIC REPORT
2. Omentum, biopsy:

Fibroadipose tissue with no diagnostic pathology
One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1)

 

Synoptic Data

---------------- MACROSCOPlC----------------
Specimen Type: Total Hysterectomy
Tumor Site: Fundus
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.8 cm
Other Organs Present: Right ovary

Left ovary

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube

Omentum
---------------- MICROSCOPIC--—-----~------—
Histologic Type: Endornetrioid adenocarcinoma, not otherwise characterized
Histologic Grade: G3: More than 50% nonsquamous solid growth
Myometrial Invasion: Invasion Present

Depth of invasion: 10 mm, Myometrial thickness: 12 mm
Cervix Involvement: None
LUS Involvement: No
Venous/Lymphatic Invasion: Absent
Nodal Involvement: No nodes submitted
Margins: ' Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2 mm
uterine serosa
Primary Tumor (pT): pT1c (IC): Tumor invades one-half or more of the myometrium
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 0
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0

Distant Metatstais (pM): pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: leiomyomata, adenomyosis
NeoAdjuvant Treatment: No

Collaborative Staging Extension: Not applicable

 

Comment

Tumor demonstrated two architectural pattern with glandular and papillary structures merging
with solid sheets. The solid component occupies more than 50% of total. Focal squamous
differentiation is identified. Focally tumor cells show very high-grade nuclei and bizarre nuclear
morphology.

lmmunohistochemistry staining shows glandular areas show positive staining with ER but weak
focal staining with p53 and negative staining with p16. The solid areas show negative staining
with ER but patchy positive staining with p53 and patchy positive staining with p16. The overall
morphological and immunohistochemistry features of this tumour is consistent with grade 3/3
endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium.

Electronically
veriﬁnd hu-

 

Clinical History
endometrial Ca

Gross Description

1. The specimen labeled the patient's name and as "Ovary: bilateral, bilateral fallopian tubes,
uterus and cervix", consists of a 74.3 g, 6.8 SI x 4.0 ML x 2.3 cm AP hysterectomy, bilateral
salpingo~oophorectomy specimen, received fresh. Vaginal cuff is not present. The exocervix
measures 2.4 cm in maximum diameter. The external os is round and measures 0.3 cm in
diameter. The endocervical canal measures 3.4 cm in length and shows a 0.6 cm polyp attached
to the posterior endocervical wall. The uterine cavity measures 2.8 x 2.8 cm. There is a large
infiltrative mass occupying the entire uterine cavity (anterior and posterior), measuring 2.8 ML x
2.2 SI x 1.0 cm in thickness. The mass is white-tan and friable and is noted grossly to be
invading the outer half of the myometrium. The endometrium measures 1.0 cm in thickness. The
myometrium has a maximum thickness of 1.3 cm and has small firm white nodules in it

measuring 0.4 cm in maximum dimensions. The serosa is smooth and glistening with a 0.9 cm
nodule noted on the posterior fundus. The right fallopian tube measures 5.0 cm in length x 0.5
cm in diameter and includes fimbriated end, and shows small paratubal cysts (0.2 cm). The right
ovary measures 2.1 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm and is grossly unremarkable. The left fallopian tube measures
5.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter and includes fimbriated end. The left ovary measures 1.9 x
1.1 x 0.5 cm and is grossly unremarkable. Sections of both fallopian tubes and ovaries and
endometrial tumour are sampled for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted as

follows:

1A

1B

10
10-15
1F
1G-1H
11
1J-1K
1L-1M
1N-1P
1Q-1T

L ovary and fallopian tube, submitted for Biobank

R ovary and fallopian tube, submitted for Biobank
Endometrial tumour section, submitted for Biobank

R fallopian tube, submitted in toto (fimbriae in 1E)

R ovary, submitted in toto

L fallopian tube, submitted in toto (fimbriae in 1G)

L ovary, submitted in toto

anterior cervix to lower uterine segment

posterior cervix to lower uterine segment, polyp in 1M
anterior endo-myometrium with tumour (longitudinal section in 1P)
posterior endo—myometrium with tumour

2. The specimen labeled the patient's name and as "Omentum, omental biopsy", consists of a
12.3 g, 8.0 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm piece of omentum with no grossly identifiable lesion. Representative
sections are submitted in blocks 2A-ZD.

 

