 

S ecimen 3 Received

. Lymph-Node: level 4, rt neck _

. Lymph node: level 1 lymph node Rt neck
. Oral Cavity: Rt tongue base (223 ‘
. Oral Cavity: teft vulecula QS
.OraLCavity: left lateral pharynx QS '
. Oral Cavity: teft lateral ﬂoor of mouth
. Oral Cavity: Rt posterior tongue basepS
. Oral Cavity: near total glossectomy

. Neck: bilateral neck dissection

10. Lymph node: Rt peniacial node

11. Lymph node: Rt peniaclal node

12. Surgical Waste: surgical waste

cocoummhwme

 

 

Diagnosis
1. Lymph node; level lV, right neck:
- Three lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/3).

2. Lymph node; level i; right neck:
- One lymph node, negative for tumor (0M).

3. Oral cavity; right tongue base:
- Skeletal muscle, negative for tumor.

4. Oral cavity; teft vallecula:
u Squamous mucosa, negative for tumor.

5. Ora! cavity; left lateral pharynx:
- Squamous mucosa, negative for tumor.

6. Oral cavity; left Eateral floor of mouth:

- Squamous mucosa and skeletat muscle. negative for tumor.

7. Oral cavity; right posterior tongue base:

— Squamous mucosa and skeletal muscle. negative for tumor.

8. Oral cavity resection; near total glossectomy:

— Squamous cell carcinoma. moderately differentiated.
a. Maximum tumor dimension 6.5 cm.
I). Maximurn tumor thickness 2.2 cm.

 

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

   

 

No perineurai invasion present.

No lymphovascular invasion present.

Tumor is present at the lnfero-anterlor margin.

Tumor is close (0.1 - 0.2 cm) to left oropharynx and deep soft tissue margins.

Tumor is close (0.3 — 0.4 cm) to medial tongue, deep floor of mouth and postero-lateral floor of mouth margins.

cannon

9. Bilateral neck dissection (see comment):
» Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in five of twenty-five lymph nodes in right neck (5l25).
i. Largest involved lymph node measures 1.0 cm.
ii. involved iymph nodes are in levels “3, it and lil.
iii. No extracapsular extension present.
— Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in four of thirty lymph nodes in left neck (4130).
iv. Largest involved lymph node measures 1.9 cm.
v. Involved lymph nodes are in levels l3 and ll.
vi. No extracapsular extension present.
— Right and left submandibular glands with no pathologic changes.

10. Right periiacial lymph node:
- One tymph node. negative for tumor (0ft).
— Fragment of parotid tissue with no pathologic changes.

11. Right perilacial lymph. node: ' t
- One‘lymph node, negative for tumor-(0M).

12. Surgical waste: -

- Fibroadlpose tissue and skin with no pathologic changes (gross examination only).

Synoptic Data -

Specimen Type: ResectionzNear total glossectomy
Tumor Site: Tongue
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 6.5 cm
Tumor thickness: 2.2 cm
Histologic Grade: GZ: Moderately differentiated
VenousiLymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) invasion (Wt): Absent
Perineural invasion: . Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Carcinoma in situ
Margins: Margin(s) involved by tumor
Location(s): intero-anterior _
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3: Tumor or lip or oral cavity more than 4 cm in greatest dimension

pNZC: Metastasis in bilateral or contralateral lymph nodes, none more than 6 cm in
greatest dimension for all aerodigestive sites except nasopharynx
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 55
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 9
Extra-capsular extension of nodal tumor: Absent
pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be aSSessed

 

Comment
All nine positive lymph nodes in the bilateral neck dissection contain micrometastases only. The size of the largest node in

each neck is based on the node size and not the size of the metastasis.

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

 

Clinical Histogy
oral ca

Gross Description
1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "level lV. right neck". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue

measuring 1.? x 1.4 x 0.30m. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm to 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm are identified.
Representative sections are submitted.

1A two lymph nodes

18 one lymph node bisected

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "level i lymph node right neck“. it consists one lymph node
measuring 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.
2A submitted in toto

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right tongue base qs”. it consists of a fragment of tissue
measuring 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
3A frozen section control

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "left vallecula qs " It consists of a fragment of tissue
measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0. 2 cm. The specimen is submitted In toto for frozen section. ‘
4A . frozen section control

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "left lateral pharynx qs". it consists of a fragment of tissue
measuring 1.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
5A frozen section control

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "left lateral floor of mouth qs". it consists of a fragment of
tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
6A frozen section control

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as ”right posterior tongue base qs". It consists of a fragment of
tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
YA frozen section control

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as ”near total glossectomy”. it consists of a large portion of left
tongue measuring 5.0 cm SI x 3.5 cm ML x 8.5 AP. There is no suture orientation. There is a large endophytlc tumor
involving the lateral surface of the tongue. The tumor measures 4.0 cm Sl x 2.2 cm ML x 6.5 cm AP. The tumor is solid
and tan with a nodular/papillary like component. it appears grossly to be located at 0.2 cm from the deep lateral floor of
mouth mucosal margin, 0.5 cm from the medial margin, < 0.1 cm from the deep margin. abuts the left infero-anterior
margin. and 0.5 cm from the posterior margin. The remaining tongue mucosa shows a yellowish white tiny 0.2 cm nodule
at the postero lateral tongue margin. Representative sections are submitted.

8A left infero anterior margin

BB deep floor of mouth mucosal margin

BC postero lateral deep floor mouth mucosal margin

8D left oropharynx mucosal margin

8E posterior tongue margin

8F medial tongue margin

86 deep soft tissue margin

8H. 8| tumor

9. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "bilateral neck dissection". it consists of an oriented modified
bilateral neck dissection with overall dimensions of 15 x 9 x 1.5 cm. The specimen is oriented on a green towel as right
and left levels l through iV. The internal jugular vein is not identified. No sternocleidomastoid is identified. The right
submandibular gland measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm and is unremarkable. The left submandibular gland measures 3.0 x 2.0
x 1 cm and is grossly unremarkable Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 X 0.2 x 0.1 cm to 2 x 1 x 0.8 cm are identified
in multiple levels. Representative sections are submitted.

 

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report - 1*.
9A right submandibular gland

QB, QC right level its multiple lymph nodes each block
9D right level IB one lymph node bisected

9E. 9F right level it multiple lymph nodes each block _
QG, 9H right level lI one lymph node bisected each block
91 right level lll multiple lymph nodes

QJ right level Ill two lymph nodes

9K right level IV two lymph nodes

9L left submandibular gland

9M, 9N left level 18 one lymph node bisected each block
90 left level IB multiple lymph nodes

9P left level ll one lymph node bisected

90, SR left level ll multiple lymph nodes

SS left level lll multiple lymph nodes

9T left level it! multiple lymph nodes

90 level lA multiple lymph nodes

10. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right penlacial node". it consists of one lymph node
measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm.
10A submitted in toto

11. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right penlacial node". It consists of one lymph node
measuring 0.8 x 0.? x 0.3 cm. -
11A submitted in toto

12. The specimen is labeled with the‘patient's name and as "surgical waste". It consists of three pieces of fibroadipose
tissue and two pieces of tan skin received in 10% buffered formalin. The skin measures 2 x 1 x 0.3 cm and 4.5 x 3.5 x 0.2
cm and the largest piece of libroadipose tissue measures 3 x 2 x 1.3 cm. No gross abnormality is noted.

No sections are submitted for histologic examination.

Quick Section Diagnosis
3. right tongue base: negative for malignancy.

4. left vallecula: negative for malignancy.
5. left lateral pharynx: negative for malignancy.
6. left lateral floor of mouth: negative for malignancy.

7. right iosterior toniue base: neiative for malignancy.

 

 

 

W Page 4 of 4

 

