.z-Conﬁdential Document
This in formation is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information Any unauthorized use. disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

Anawamaepons _

I UUID:7139C84F-GB4I-4912-ABBO-6F4B2877C413
. Flnal Report ' TCGA-QC-ASFX-OlA-PR '

mlmmiIiiiliiliiiiiiii'iiﬁiiiﬁiite" ‘
llllllllllllllllllllllll l I
H I llllllllllllllllll

regarding

o tT : A pmn n llllllllllllllllllllllllll llll l
oiﬁﬂiﬂmé‘ié "a" 8 69° 5 IlllllllIllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Document Status: Auth (Veriﬁed) .
Document Title: Histology

Performed By:

Veriﬁed By:

Encounter info: ICiD —0 - 3
. . - 807'
Contributor system. Eh ! t: ,H d i ‘ $8, 6/@
* Final Re ort 111W 2 g: 9
p We W Was/5

84b. “‘55ng m N0 4%
‘ ersyﬁauc MM‘Mp

Hal/3
Patient Name: Acc #: ll 1,
MRNZ DOB: -(Age_
M

I
Location: Gender: Collected: \
Client: Received:
Submitting Reported:
Phys:

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Final Patholo to Die nosis
A. SKIN AND SOFT TISSUEI LEFT BACK, RADICAL RESECTION:
- PLEOMORPHIC UNDIFFERENTIATED SARCOMA. HIGH GRADE.

- SARCOMA INVOLVES THE DEEP, SUPERIOR. AND INFERIOR RESECTION MARGINS.
- PREVIOUS BIOPSY SITE CHANGES.
- SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT.

3. SOFT TISSUE, ADDITIONAL DEEP MARGIN, EXCISION:
- BENIGN SKELETAL MUSCLE.
- NO TUMOR IS IDENTIFIED.

C. SOFT TISSUE, ADDITIONAL MARGIN AT SITE OF SUSPECTED SECONDARY NODULE, EXCISION:
- BENIGN SKELETAL MUSCLE.

- NO TUMOR lS IDENTIFIED.

Printed by; Page 1 of4
Printed on: (Continued)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use, disclosure. or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

* Final Report '

. regarding

Assisted by:

Synoptic Worksheet

A. Radical resection. left back, high grade sarcoma, short - superior; long - lateral; white - secondary nodule
(suspected):

Preresection Treatment: No therapy
Procedure: Radical resection
Tumor Site; Left back
Histologic Type: Pleomorphic undifferentiated sarcoma
Histologic Grade: Grade 3
Macroscopic Extent of Tumor: Deep - intramuscular
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.0 cm ‘ ,
. Additional Dimension: 2.4 cm ’7’
5. Additional Dimension: 1.5 cm " {It '
Margins: Margin(s) positive for sarcoma
Margin(s): inferior (green), Slide A3; Superior (blue), Slide A5
Mitotic Rate: 12/10 high-power fields (HPF)
Necrosis: Present
Extent: 10%
Treatment Effect: Not identiﬁed
lmmunohistochemistry: Not performed
Cytogenetics: Not performed
Molecular Pathology: Not performed
TNM Descriptors: Not applicable
Primary Tumor (pT):

pT2a: Tumor more than 5 cm in greatest dimension, superﬁcial tumor
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
Number of nodes examined: 0

Number of nodes positive: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: None

 

Clinical Histog

Sarcoma on back. Wide local excision sarcoma. left back.

Speciments) Received

A: Radical resection. left back. high grade sarcoma, short - superior: long - lateral; white - secondary nodule (suspected)

Printed by: Page 2 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

. Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of regarding
patient information. Any unauthorized use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited

Anat Path Reports -

' Final Report ‘

B: Additional deep margin at site of dominant tumor
C: Additional margin at site of suspected secondary nodule

Gross Description

Specimen A is received fresh in a container labeled with the patient's name and designated “sarcoma, left back" and consists of
an excision of white skin and underlying subcutaneous tissue measuring 9.5 x 3.9 cm excised to a depth of 4.8 cm. The skin
ellipse itself measures 9.0 x 2.5 cm and has a centrally-located. well-healed linear scar measuring 6.7 x 0.1 cm with the long axis
oriented parallel to the long axis of the ellipse. The deepest portion of the specimen appears to be skeletal muscle. measuring
approximately 7.0 x 4.8 cm with a thickness of up to 1.6 cm. The specimen is oriented with a double long suture on one tip of the
ellipse designated lateral and a short suture on one side designating superior. Additionally there is a white suture on the
inferior-deep aspect which designates a suspected secondary nodule. 0n cross section there is a rubbery firm tan—white ovoid
mass located within the skeletal muscle measuring approximately 5.0 x 2.4 x 1.5 cm with no definite necrosis. This mass
appears to abut the deep margin as well as the deep aspect of the superior and inferior margins and comes within less than 1.0
mm of the deep aspect of the lateral margin. while it is approximately 2.7 cm from the medial margin and 3.7 cm deep to the skin
surface. The secondary nodule indicated by the white suture measures 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm but appears to merge with the main
mass and is included in the aforementioned margin measurements. Deep to the skin surface on the medial half there is a cystic
cavity measuring 2.0 x 1.4 x 1.3 cm, which may represent a prior surgical site cavity. No other lesions are identiﬁed. The
specimen is inked as follows: superior, blue: inferior. green; medial. red; lateral, yellow; deep, black. The margin adjacent to the
suspected secondary nodule along the central inferior-deep aspect is inked orange. A portion of tumor and normal tissue are
given to . Representative sections are submitted as follows. (Dictated by ‘

Specimen B is received fresh in a container labeled with the patients name and designated "additional deep margin at tumor"
and consists of an unoriented portion of apparent skeletal muscle measuring 2.1 x 1.9 x 1.1 cm. One of the narrow edges
appears to be cauterized; this edge is inked blue and the remaining external surface of the specimen is inked green. No tumor is

identiﬁed. The specimen is serially sectioned perpendicular to the cauterized edge and submitted entirely in cassettes "Bi" and
"32." (Dictated by '

dge and entirely submitted in cassettes "C1" and "C2."
(Dictated by .
CASSETTE SUMMARY:
A1: Tumor to closest deep and inferior margins
A2: Additional tumor to deep
A3: Secondary nodule in relation to inferior and deep margins and main mass
A4: Tumor to deep aspect of superior margin
A5: Additional tumor to deep aspect of superior margin
A6.7: Tumor to deep aspect of lateral margin
A8: Representative medial margin
A9: Representative skin with scar and underlying cavity
A10-13: Additional representative sections of tumor
Printed by: Pa
. e 3 of 4
Printed on: 9

(Continued)

, Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

“ Final Report '

regarding

Microscopic Desgrlgtlon
Microscopic examination performed.

Printed by: Page 4 of 4
Printed on: (End of Report)

