17F1F1
UUID: 8606A2391- -F5B1- M‘ESB- AEPDRB- FDBIBB Redacted

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIII IInmm‘IIIIIIIII‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Ill lIIIlIl IlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORTI

 

Patient Name: Accessron #:

Med. Rec. #: Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #2

Patient Address: Billing Type: INPATIENT

Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

’ year old male with bladder diverticulum with high grade tumor.

Specimens Submitted:
1: Soft tissue bladder margin (fs)

(”#0301me

:Bladderdiverticulum, urachus. periveslcletissue, lymph nodes upper portion of bladder distal rIght ureter
: Right vas deferens

: Right pelvic lymph nodes

: Perivesical fat

: Piece of omentum

: Periureteral tissue

: Periveslcal tissue

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1.

Soft tissue, bladder margin; excision (fs):
- Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.

Bladder diverticulum. urachus, perivesicle tissue, lymph nodes, upper portion of bladder, distal right ureter:

Tumor Type:

Urothelial carcinoma with mixed histologic features, including: urothelial carcinoma NOS, keratinizing
squamous and small cell/neuroendocrine involving a bladder diverticulum

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:

Papillary and ﬂat (‘WIIMI Wu r1, WW/Pmﬂt’i: ”j“

  
    

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:

Infiltrating (aha: Maw“

Tumor Multicentrlcity:

Identified 5% . (Huh/{44)} m); c, 67, ‘l W

Bladder Local Invasion: Nﬁz/ ll
Perivesical soft tissues

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Right ureter uninvolved
Left ureter uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved

Vascular Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Evie wxed

Perineural Invasion: . :u / 4/617 I ll

 

Page 1 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Identified

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting chronic cystitis
Exhibiting denudation

Prostate:
Not identified

Seminal Vesicles:
Not identiﬁed

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

 

3. Vas deferens, right; resection:
- Benign vas deferens.

4. Right pelvic lymph nodes:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 8

 

5. Soft tissue , perivesical fat; excision:
— Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.

6. Omentum; resection:
- Benign adipose tissue.

7. Soft tissue. periureteral tissue; excision:
- Benign ﬁbrovascular and adipose tissue.

8. Soft tissue, perivesical tissue; excision:
- Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.

| ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

SYN
CHR
AE1:AE3
TTF—1

 

Page 2 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

RECUT
IMM RECUT
NEG CONT

Gross Description:

1. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled, "Soft tissue bladder margin (fs)“ and consists of a
fragment of soft pink and yellow tissue (1.5x 0.6x 0.3 cm). The specimen is entirely frozen and submitted in one cassette.

Summary of sections:
FSC — frozen section control

2). The specimen is received fresh labeled "Urachus, perivesicular tissue lymph nodes, upper portion of bladder, bladder
diverticulum, distal right ureter" and consists of a portion of bladder. diverticulum. portion of ureter. and perivesicular tissue. The
portion of bladder is received opened with a dusky purple-pink but othenrvise unremarkable mucosa measuring 8.6 x 7.5 cm with
underlying perivesicular tissue measuring 11.0 x 9.5 x 1.5 cm. The attached closed pouch like diverticulum measures 7.2 x 6.0 x
3.0 cm and is attached by a 1.8 x 0.5cm piece of the opened bladder mucosa. The anterior wall of the diverticulum displays a
1.8 x 1.5 cm transmural defect of a possible urachus, the tissue surrounding the defect is inked orange. the remaining anterior
aspect is inked black. The posterior surface of both the diverticulum and bladder perivesicular tissue are inked blue. The right
aspect of the diverticulum has an adhered segment of ureter measuring 3.0 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The ureter has
one clip and an opposing opened end. The diverticulum is opened to reveal a yellow-brown fungating papillary friable tumor
measuring 4.7 x 4.3 x 1.5 cm. 4.1 cm from the transmural defect and 1.0 cm from the attached bladder mucosa. There is a
second adjacent raised papillary nodule measuring 2.5 x 2.2 x 0.9 cm, 0.2 cm from the fungating tumor. 2.0 cm from the
transmural defects, and 5.6 cm from the attached bladder mucosa. Upon sectioning the two tumor nodules join and there is
papillary extension to a depth of 1.80m. The remaining bladder diverticulum mucosa is yellow and smooth. The tumor is 1.0
cm from the attached ureter and the ureter is grossly uninvolved with the tumor. Both of the ureter margins are shaved and
submitted an face. Perpendicular sections of the bladder mucosa margins are submitted ner clock face with 12 o'clock arbitrarily
designated in pathology by the diverticulum attachment site. Gross photos are taken. 15 taken. Representative sections
are submitted.

Summary of sections:

BM3 - bladder margin 3 o'clock

BM6- lateral margin 6 o'clock (opposite the diverticulum attachment site)
BMQ - bladder margin 9 o'clock

TB - diverticulum tumor to attached portion of bladder
TN - diverticulum tumor to smaller nodule

ND - smaller nodule to transmural defect

TU - tumor to ureter

UC - ureter margin (clipped end)

U0 - ureter margin (opened end)

DIV - additional representative sections of diverticulum
BL - additional representative sections of bladder

F - tumor to greatest depth of invasion

3.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right vas deferens." and consists of a segment of vas deferens that measures 3.1x
0.6 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U - undesignated

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

4.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," and consists of multiple lymph nodes that measure up
to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
BLN — bisected lymph node
LN — lymph nodes

5.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "perivesical fat," and consists of a piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue that measures 5.8 x 4.2
x 1.5 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal yellow, homogeneous cut surfaces. Representative sections are
submitted.

Summary of sections:
U -- undesignated

6.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "piece of omentum," and consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue that measures 7.9 x
3.2 x 2.8 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal yellow, homogenous cut surfaces. Representative sections are
submitted.

Summary of sections:
U -- undesignated

7.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "perivesical tissue" and consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue that measures 2.3 x
1.8 X 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U —— undesignated

8.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "pen'ureteral tissue" and consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue that measures 0.5
x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U —— undesignated

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: Soft tissue bladder margin (fs)

Block Sect. Site P03
1 FSC 1

Part 2: Bladder diverticulum, urachus, perivesicle tissue, lymph nodes, upper portion of bladder, distal right ureter

Block Sect. Site P63
2 BL 2
BM3
BM6
BM9
DIV
F
ND
T
TB
TN
TU
UC
U0

AdNCﬁb—l—INN-I-x—A
AdeA—x—xmk‘t—s—x—x

 

Page 4 of 5

Part 3:

Block

Part 4:

Block

Part 5:

BIock

Part 6:

Block

Part 7:

Block

Part 8:

Block

Right vas deferens

Sect. Site
U

Right pelvic lymph nodes

Sect. Site
BLN
LN

Perivesical fat

Sect. Site
U

Piece of omentum

Sect. Site
U

Periureteral tissue

Sect. Site
U

Perivesical tissue

Sect. Site
U

Intraoperative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

1. Frozen section diagnosis: Soft tissue bladder margin (fs):

Permanent diagnosis: SAME

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PCs

PCs

PCs

PCs

PCs

PCs

Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue (

 

Page 5 of 5

END OF REPORT

