UUID:Péé:CILS%-g7slgé4gia-8ga6-7FBA864RC1A33 t d '1 STUDY ID -
- - - - e ac e - . .
ll llllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll «..; _ ' '

llllllllllllllllllllllllIllIll lllll ll . ‘ Requested:

l
I” lIllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

in Collected :

cos 2! Received : :'
Sex :Maie Printed
Ph '

 

       

*** The following test has been amended *"
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT :

M

if: CLINICAL NOTES:
Asbestos +ve history. Right pleural effusion ? meso.
MACROSCOPIC:
'Perietal pieura'. The specimen consists of multiple pink pieces of tissue measuring betwaen 3mm and 10mm in illuxirnai

dimension. Several of the larger pieces bare firm pink nodules measuring between 3mm and 7mm in maximal dimension.
Representative sections. (Block A - 6p. B - 5p)

17:39? (”1% ‘Zfr’Q

 

' MICROSCOPIC: ' I Sur ei
se

    
   
  

‘

   
 

W

‘1'. -‘ v

9 The specimen consists of portions of pleura which show a surface mlcropapillaty and inﬁltrating malignant tumour with

     

 

 

 

 

 
    

‘ - features which favour malignant mesothellome of epithelial type. On the surface of the pleura the malignant cells are [:1
. arranged in mlcroaclnar groups and mlcropepiliary tufts and‘ihe constituent cells have enlarged nuclei with focally prominent ND,"1a
0’ nucleoli with a variable amount of eoslnophilic to clear cytoplasm. The cells inﬁltrate thickened ﬁbrotic pleura and encroach
* on pleural fat. in some areas the siroma to slightly myxoid and contains elongated spindle cells raising the possibility of a El
' blphaslc component. There are scattered psammoma bodies. N
t ‘ ' at
\ No lntracytoplasmic mucln is seen on PAS stein. ‘ a
Immunohistochemlstry will be performed and a further report will follow. ' ' D
oinenosrs: $333?
(3 RIGHT PARIETAL PLEURA - MALIGNANT lNFlLTRATE. FAVOUR MALIGNANT MESOTHELIOMA D
3 r ( Reported by Pastieeent
1i: ‘gl‘ “r
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT‘ciatcd -
5 Fit
§ lmmunohlstochemistry has been performed. as e
w The surface mlcropapiliary component and the epitheliold component shows strong positive staining for calretinln. This stein Cog)”
\ also shows positive staining of the spindle cells in the desmopiastic component and the deeper levels highlight a greater Treatmer
(15‘ proportion of this component. The stains for CK 5/6 and HBMEi also show a similar pattern of staining. The epithelial
\ component stains positively for the lymphatic marker with no significant staining for CEA. Ti‘F-1 or M0031.
_ “"i .........
Q The pattern of differentiation and the lmmunohlstochemioal profile are consistent with malignant mesotheiioma of epithelial 5 Quad
3: and biphaslc types.
(3 ﬁ‘ DIAGNOSIS: ”03“"
' RIGHT PARiETAL PLEURA - MALlGNANT MESOTHELIOMA, EPITHELIAL AND BIPHASIC TYPES
§ Reported by
I bi m End of amendment ***
s /‘
(n _ , . . . , FINAL REPORT rpm Page 1 or]

 
     
 
 

 

rim

 
  

 
 

initials

