Mia/we ”2344.?

9,3 7/2 5/13 ha

UUID:D45FFC62-48F3-4281-BEAF-F87E320ADSBG
TCGA-BB-AEWS-OlA-PR Redlﬁilted
1

Final Surgical Pathology Report

|III ‘9” 7/2 5

Procedure:

Diagnosis
Right kidney, nephrectomy:

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, with focal papillary features,
nuclear grade 3, 2.5 cm with extension into the fat of the renal sinus,
margins uninvolved.

Separate papillary renal cell carcinoma, nuclear grade 2, 2.8 cm,
confined to the kidney, margins uninvolved.

Microscopic Description:
Microscopic examination performed.

The following template applies to the hilar mass:

Histologic type: Clear cell carcinoma with focal papillary features
Histologic grade: Fuhrman nuclear grade 3

Primary tumor (pT): The carcinoma is 2.5 cm however extends into the
fat of the renal sinus, pT3

Margins of resection: negative

Regional lymph nodes (pN): none submitted, pNX

Distant metastasis (pM): cannot be evaluated by this specimen, pMX
Adrenal gland: not present

Vascular invasion: not identfied

Nonwneoplastic kidney: unremarkable

Other findings: none

The following template applies to the peripheral tumor
Histologic type: Papillary carcinoma

Histologic grade, Fuhman nuclear grade 2

Primary tumor (pT): 2.8 cm, confined to the kidney, pTl
Margins of resection: uninvolved

Regional lymph nodes (pN): none submitted, pNX
Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Adrenal gland: not present

Vascular invasion: not identified

Non-neoplastic kidney: unremarkable

Other findings: none

Specimen
Right kidney

Clinical Information
Renal cancer

Gross Description

Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "right
kidney" is a 406 g kidney which is predominant covered with abundant
yellow lobular fat measuring 15 x 11 x 5.5 cm. (Weight and measurements
including fat). The specimen shows no discrete adrenal gland. There is
a 4.0 cm long ureter. The specimen is bivalved to show 2.5 x 2.0 x 2.0
cm orange irregular well—circumscribed mass located at the hilum. This
is within 1.2 cm of the stapled hilum. There is an additional pale
yellow irregular nodular lesion measuring 2.7 cm in greatest dimension.
This is well—circumscribed and does not appear to grossly invade
through the capsule. This is located near the periphery of the

specimen, approximately 2.8 cm from the hilum and 2 cm from first
described tumor. The remainder of the parenchyma is pink red, smooth
and glistening with a discrete cortical medullary border. No other
discrete gross lesions are identified. No lymph nodes are grossly
identified in the surrounding fat. Representative sections of the
specimen are submitted as follows: 1 — vascular and ureteral margins, 2
— 5- representative tumor to radial margin and normal, 6 — possible
tumor to hilar margin, 7 — representative normal, 8 - 11 —
representative sections of additional tumor to radial margin (capsule)
and normal, 12 - representative section of normal between tumors.

 

 

 

 

 

