SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Left upper lobe
B. Level 5 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Submitted fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left

upper lobe" is a lobe of lung tissue which has been
amputated at the level of its principle bronchus and blood vessels.
The bronchial profiles that are present consists of three bronchi,
each approximately 8 to 9 mm across. They are grossly unremarkable.
Some vascular stumps are present at the point of amputation as well.
There is some anthracotic tissue present which may represent some
hilar lymph nodes. The visceral pleural surface of the lobe is
intact although there is a small area of adhesion and thickening
overlying an obviously large intraparenchymal tumor mass. The
remainder of the parenchyma is anthracotic without focal lesion.
The lung was serially sectioned and this reveals a very large tumor
mass present in the center of the lobe which has a extensively
necrotic center. The tumor mass measures maximally 6 cm. across.
There is a rim of granular brown black tumor tissue present which
appears to extend to the visceral pleural surface. The center of the
tumor is necrotic with a creamy yellowish red appearance. Fresh

tissue from normal lung is submitted for procurement as per
request of Sections through the remainder of the lung
show no ot esions. Sections after fixation.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Bronchial and vascular margins; 2 - possible
lymph nodes; 3-8 - tumor including pleu - random non-tumorous
lung section. RS-9 after fixation.

B. Received fresh, labeled "Level 5 lymph node", are

multiple black—pink, irregular soft tissue fragments, which
have an aggregate measurement of 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 The specimens
are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-l

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Microscopic sections of the left upper lobe tumor reveals a

squamous cell carcinoma which has variable histology.
Portions of the tumor are moderately differentiated and show
evidence of keratinization and well-defined intracellular bridges.
Other parts of the tumor have a sarcomatoid appearance and focally
develop a biphasic appearance with moderately differentiated
squamous carcinoma and spindle cell elements intermingling in a
carcinosarcomatous-like pattern. The finding of the histology is
present in the following template.

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): 6 cm mass which does not involve the visceral
pleural surface (pT2).

Margins of resection: Negative.

Direct extension of tumor: Absent.

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative.

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.

Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Two peribronchial lymph nodes and the
level 5 lymph node (part B) are negative for metastatic carcinoma.

(pNO)
Distant metastasis (pM): Could not be assessed. (pMX)
5,3
DIAGNOSIS

A. Lung, left upper lobectomy:
Invasive, poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with
focal sarcomatoid features.
The tumor does not involve the visceral pleural surface.
Bronchial and vascular margins of resection are free of
tumor.
Two bronchial lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/2).

B. Lymph node, level 5, resection:
Fibrofatty tissue and sclerotic lymph node tissue negative for
metastatic carcinoma.

 

——— End Of Report ---

