 

UUID: 26338601-0C01-4D35-8FCF-1SBTBCBRFDeA99c
TCGA- -ZG- MGP- OlA- PR

MWWWWWWWWWMEWMW
MHIMWNMMMMMIHMMMMNHHH
“WWWWWWWWWWM

Concerning

Summary pathology report

Department of Pathology

Direct dial

Mobile: -

Internal postal address
Email

Date

Postal address

Streetaddrees

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (EC 40%, MT + IT 40%, YST 15%. SE 5%, scattered
trophoblastic giant cells); tumor diameter 4 cm; tumor conﬁned to testis; angio-invasion

present; no invasion of rete testis.

Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy):

pathologist

professor of pathology

129:1; o .5

908515

at. a
6 L WHO; 2?ng ‘7
)4 Q 6/7/M

Mﬂﬁmwww
Mfume/HM”

W 5124/ 5?»
md‘rM/W W7

W .207:

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4. 00

 

 

 

 

msgmgtinns; 'l‘he TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS): _ TSS Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinico): Completed Date: _
Eiagnosis information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial CT . SE (5%) + EC (4 0%) this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
PathOIOgy Report MT plus IT (40%) , YST (15%)
. . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
QStOIOgl: feature: if MT plus IT (75%) , EC (2 0%) , YST (5%) Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 e samp e prov1 e
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.
[Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
3 Provide the reason for Due to the histological heterogeneous Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
- - - - holo re ort for this case is not consistent with the
the discrepancy const 1tution of non— seminomas , the pat 33' p
dia osis selected on the TCGA Case u 1i Control Form.
between the pathology representation of the different gn Q a ty
report and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected
Case Quaﬁty contml to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form. samples of the same case.
However , the components are monoclonal
in origin .
Name of TSS Reviewing fro'v‘igeAthe name of the pathologist who reviewed this case ‘
4 Pathologist or °r G '
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

 

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

 

 

 

