Patient Results

 

 

 

 

Surgical Patholtgy (Copath)

Path Report

SURGtCAL PATH RT
ACCESSEON NO. :

Final Dlagnosis(es):

(A) Liver, biopsy:

1) Minimal mixed portal inflammation.

2) Mild cholestasls.

2) Focal area of dense fibrosis.

3) Negative for malignancy,

(8) Soft tissues, falciform ligament, biopsy:

1) Flbroadlpose tissue. consistent with falcitorm

tigament.

2) Negative for malignancy.

((3) Lymph node, hepatoduodenal. biopsy: One lymph node.
negative for malignancy (0ft). _

(D) Bile duct, margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

(E) Pancreas duct, margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(F) Soft tissues, middle cellac vein region, biopsy: Positive
for metastatic adenocarcinoma. ,
(G) Head of pancreas, duodenum, stomach, and gallbladder,
pancreaticoduodeneotomy (Whipple

procedure) and cholecystectomy:

1) invasive duetal adenoéarcinoma, moderately
differentiated.

2) Tumor size: 3.0 cm.

3) Perineurai invasion is present.

4) Anterior and interior peripancreatic soft tissues are
positive for adenocarcinoma.

5) Unoinate. proximal (gastric) and distal (small

intestinal) margins.

negative for involvement by adenocarcinoma.

6) Fifteen lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0115).

7) Pathologio stage: thiNO.

8) Sea Synoptic Report for complete tumor summary.

9) Stomach with no histopathoiogic abnormality.

10) Duodenal mucosa with no histopathologio

abnormality.

11) Gallbladder with chronic choleoyslitis.

Synoptic Report:

Specimen:

Head of pancreas.

Duodenum.

Stomach.

Common bile duct.

Gallbladder.

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial

pancreatectomy, choleoyslectomy.

 

Final]

Final

 

 

Printed from: tit-fan

ﬂ

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

Surgical Pathology (Copath)

 

Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.
Tumor Size:
Greatest Dimension: 3.0 cm.
Additional Dimensions: 2.0 x 2.0 cm.
Histologic Type: Ductai adenocarcinoma.
Microscopic Tumor Extension:
Tumor invades duodenal wail.
Tumor invades peripancreatlc soft tissues (anterior,
inferior).
Tumor invades extrapancreatic common bile duct.
Tumor invades other adjacent organs or structures (middle
celiac vein).
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma (proximal,
distal, uncinate, bile duct and pancreatic).
Treatment Effect: Not known.
Lymphvascular Invasion: Not identified.
Perineural Invasion: Present.
Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT4: Tumor involves the ceiiac axis or the
superior mesenteric artery.
Regional Lymph Nodes: No regional lymph nodes‘metastasts.
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 16
Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable.
Additional Pathologic Findings:
Pancreatic lntraepithelial neoplasia (highest grade:
PaniNS).
’ pancreatitis.

Comments:
This case has been reviewed and the diagnosis approved by

Wing departmental surgical pathology staff.

‘The gross description and all microscopic slides have been
reviewed and inter the undersigned pathologist'

   

A: Liver biopsy

8: Faiciform ligament

C: Hepato-duodenai lymph node
D: Bile duct margin

E: Pancreatic duct margin

F: Middle ceiiac vein biopsy

G: Gallbladder and small bowal
Ctinicai History:

Pancreatic cancer.

 

Printed from: livi’nult

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

Surgical Pathology (Copath)

 

(D) Stitch marks true margin.
(E) Stitch marks true margin.

ﬁumor Bank.

intraoperative C
Time Received:
Time Reported:
FSAt: Liver biopsy:

Fibrous nodule with thick-walled blood vessels
negative for malignancy (1 block).

FSDt: Bile duct margin: Ne alive for in silu or invasive
mailgnanoy(1 block). *

FSE1~FSE21 Pancreatic duct mar ' ' ‘ star in sliu or
invasive malignancy (2 blocks)._

FSFi: Middle cellac ositive for metastatic
car ' .

 
  

   
    
  
 

(A) (liver, biopsy) Received fresh from the operating room are
multiple red~brown hemorrhagic liver core biopsy fragments
measuring 1.0 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is
entirely used for frozen section and submitted in FSAl.

(B) (faiciform ligament) Received in formalin is a yellow-tan
fibrofatty tissue measuring 12.5 x 5.0 x 1.0 cm. The
specimen is serially sectioned. Serial sectioning does not
reveal any gross abnormalities. A representative section is
submitted in El.

(C) (hepatoduodenal lymph node) Received in formalin is a
yellow-tan fibrofatty aggregate measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm.
The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted in C1vC2.

(0) (bile duct margin) Received fresh from the operating room
is a red-tan hemorrhagic circular bile duct measuring 0.7 x 0.6
x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely used for frozen section and
submitted in F801

(E) (pancreatic duot margin) Received fresh from the operating
room is a red-brown tissue fragment measuring 3.6 x 2.0 x 0.4
cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen
section in FSEl-FSEZ.

(F) (middle celiac vein biopsy) Received fresh from the
operating room are two tan tissue fragments measuring 1.0 x 0.5
x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely used for frozen
section and submitted in FSFl

((3) (gallbladderand small bowel) Received trash from the

operating room is a duodenum, stomach. gallbladder and head of

 

l’r'intcrl l‘r'nrn: Delilah

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

pancreas. The specimen measures 22.0 x 19.0 x 5.5 cm. The
stomach measures 3.0 cm in length and 12.0 cm in open
circumference. The duodenum measures 18.0 cm in length and
6.5 cm in open circumference. The omental fat near the stomach
measures ?.5 cm in length. The gallbladder measures 8.5 x 3.5 x
1.5 cm. The head of the pancreas measures 6.5 x 5.5 x 3.0 cm.

The entire outer surface of the head of the We inked

black and a portion of the tissue is given to Opening
the gallbladder shows red-brOWn mucoid bile and no calculi. The
gallbladder wall is 0.3 cm thick. There is a metal stent
in the ampulia. The specimen is opened through the ampulia to
the cystic duct and gallbladder and bile duct and part of the
common duct mucosa is inked orange. Opening the pancreas from
bile duct and ampulia shows a red firm ill-deﬁned mass grossly
invading to ampulia, measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. This mass is
grossly touching the inked anterior and inferior margins and
grossly invading the ampulia and bile duct. Dissecting the
omentai fat reveals multiple lymph nodes ranging in size from
0.5 to 2.0 cm in diameter. Sections are submitted as follows:
Gt - stomach margin '
G2 - duodenal margin
G3 - anterior margin, on face
G4 - superior margin, on face
G5 - medial margin, on face
G6 — uncinate margin, on face
G7 - posterior margin, on face
GB - inferior margin, en laca
GQ - gallbladder and cystic duct section
6‘10 - bile duct margin
Git — section of tumor with bile duct, ampulia and duodenum
G12 - section of tumor with duodenum
G13 - section of tumor with normal pancreas
C514 - section of tumor
G15 — section of normal pancreas
C316 — representative section of stomach
Gt? - representative section of duodenum
G18 - one lymph node, serially sectioned
G19 - one lymph node, serially sectioned
G20 - three lymph nodes. bisected
621 ~ three lymph nodes. bisected

— a lymph nodes, intact

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performe-

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.
Htslopalhology has a list at lH antibodies that are regulated as

 

 

 

 

Printed from: livliirlﬂ

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

Surgical Pathology (Copatit)

 

analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

Histo ath l in the Department of Pathology at the
m They have not been cleared by the US
cod and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such

clearance-or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These
tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical
care. in cases where lmmunohlstochemistry testing is performed.
the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used
to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(3167). ERtSPl),

PR( 1 E2), Heaneut4l35), CDi 17(F’oly). CD20{L26).

Unless otherwise stated in the report. all tissue tested for

ERPR by “-10, Her2 by lHC and/or HER2 by FlSH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER. PR. Ki-BT, p53 are reported as a semisquantltative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her~2fneu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0}. weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any preportion of cells is

scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cell's or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue ﬁxed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

Printed from: Default}

 

. ..___._____r_ __.__.._.

