UUID: 3792AGSB- (233- ADDF- 88F8- 8829373616FeEd
TCGA- GV- A3Q I- 61A- PR

Encounter Date: ‘

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (owe-

 

 

 

Patient Name . Sex

Results

Specimen #: -

Submitting Physician:

EXDB

'.

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

1. Distal right ureter, biopsy (A) - Negative for neoplasm.

2. Distal left ureter, biopsy (B) - Negative for neoplasm.

3. Right pelvic lymph node, excision (C) — One lymph node, negative for

neoplasm (0/1).

4. Left pelvic lymph node, excision (D) - Fourteen lymph nodes, negative

for neoplasm (0/14)

5. Right pelvic lymph node #2, excision (E) - Thirteen lymph nodes,

negative for neoplasm (0/13).

6. Urinary bladder, radical cystoprostatectomy (F) - Invasive high grade

papillary urothelial carcinoma (4.5 cm).

- The tumor invades through muscularis propria (detrusor muscle) and into

perivesical fat.

- The bilateral ureteral, urethral, peripheral and all remaining resection

margins are negative for tumor.
— Lymphovascular invasion is present.
- See comment.

7. Prostate, radioal cystoprostatectomy (F) — High grade prostatic

intraepithelial neoplasia.

— The prostatic urethra and parenchyma are not involved by urothelial

carcinoma.

8. Distal prostatic urethra, resection (G) - Negative for neoplasm.

F — (CD/0’3 cot(<:inom,w0¥hl¢ahm$
‘5 630,3

was”, postwar (.2. II

COMMENT
Specimen Type:

Radical cystoprostatectomy 6&1, '.

Tumor Size, Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm

Histologic Type:
Urothelial carcinoma

Urothelial Carcinoma: (WHO
High-grade

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1’26 4 7, C L97 4
Criteria Ves No
DIaganis Discte up w v ._- .7
Primuy Tumor SiL Dier_ep_mr.y __h (7 1
_HIPAA Discrepan _ E 7
Pnur MaIignanc q Histo y P (_ — - _— 1 -
l _ _

Dual/Svndyoif. Im
_ Que ls (circle):

   

 

Page 1 of4

H Encounter Dam—I

Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma:
N/A

Associated Epithelial Lesions: (check all that apply)
None identified

Margins:
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L):
Present

Direct Extension of Invasive Tumor:
Perivesical fat

other Diagnoses:
Pathologic Stage:

Primary Tumor: (pT)
pT3b: Macroscopically invades perivesical fat (extravesical mass)

Regional Lymph Nodes: (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number examined 28: Number involved (any size): 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed

(Electronic Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED

A: DISTAL RIGHT URETER

B: DISTAL LEFT URETER

C: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

D: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

E: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES #2
F: BLADDER AND PROSTATE

G: DISTAL PROSTATIC URETHRA

CLINICAL DATA
BLADDER CA
G: RULE OUT CA

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
A. Cross section of ureter. Negative for malignancy (Dr.

B. Cross section of ureter. Negative for malignancy (Dr.
C. Negative for neoplasm (Dr.
G. Negative for neoplasm (Dr.

1

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "distal right
ureter". It consists of a single piece of lumen that measures 0.5 x 0.5 x

“ Pa2e20f4

M Encounter Date.-

0.1 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in cassette
Al.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "distal left
ureter". It consists of a single piece of soft tissue with lumen that
measures 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section in cassette B1.

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "right pelvic
lymph node". It consists of a single piece of adipose and fibrous tissue
without a distinct nodule. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen

section in cassette Cl.

D. Received fresh labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" are multiple fragments
of yellow fibrofatty tissue aggregating to 6.5 x 6.5 x 1.0 cm. Palpation
'reveals ten pink firm nodules ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows: D1 five
nodules; D2 three nodules; D3 one nodule; D4 - D6 remaining fat.

E. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes #2" are multiple
fragments of yellow fibrofatty tissue aggregating to 6.5 x 5.5 x 1.0 cm.
Palpation reveals nine tan firm nodules ranging in size from 0.5 to 9.0 cm
in greatest dimension. The largest nodule is predominantly fat replaced.
The specimen is totally submitted as follows: E1 two nodules; E2 two
nodules; E3 two nodules; E4 two nodules; E5 - E7 largest nodule sectioned
and totally submitted; E8 - E10 remaining fat.

. 4.-

F. Received in formalin is a specimen consisting of a urinary bladder,
bilateral ureters, prostate and attached seminal vesicles and vas
deferentia. The bladder measures 2.0 x 5.5 x 4.5 cm. The external surface
of the bladder is covered by smooth lining at the dome and fibroadipose
tissue of the remaining portion. After the bladder is opened, a firm white
papillary—like mass is identified measuring 4.5 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm within the
posterior wall. The mass is papillary and solid. On sectioning, the mass
extends through the muscularis propria into the perivesical adipose tissue
retracting the overlying serosa. The serosal surface appears involved. The
remaining bladder mucosa is unremarkable. The wall of the bladder appears
thickened. A segment of right ureter measures 2.8 cm in length and is
patent. Its mucosal surface is smooth and glistening. A segment of left
ureter is 2.2 cm in length and its mucosa is also unremarkable. The
prostate measures 4.5 cm transversely, 3.0 cm anteroposteriorly and 3.0 cm
craniocaudally. The capsular surface is smooth. The gland is inked with
blue on the right and yellow on the left and sectioned from apex to base
transversely at 3 mm intervals perpendicular to the urethra. The urethra
has been amputated in the same plane as the prostatic urethra, therefore, a
shave margin cannot be obtained. Cross sections of the prostate reveal a
tan solid cut surface without any definitive lesions. Rubbery nodularity is
not present. The seminal vesicles are unremarkable. Segments of vas
deferens are also unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted as
follows: F1 right ureter; F2 left ureter; F3 posterior bladder wall with
mass retracting local surface; F4 posteriori wall mass; F5 posterior wall
mass in relation to perivesical fat; F6 anterior bladder wall; F7 right
bladder wall; F8 left bladder wall; F9 dome of bladder; F10 trigone in
relation to posterior wall mass; F11 apex right; F12 apex left; F13 3 mm
right; F14 3 mm left; F15 6 mm right; F16 6 mm left; F17 9 mm right; F18 9
mm left; F19 12 mm right; F20 12 mm left; F21 15 mm anterior right; F22 15

“ Page 3 of 4

M Encounter Date:—

mm anterior left; F23 15 mm posterior right; F24 15 mm posterior left; F25
18 mm anterior right; F26 18 mm anterior left; F27 18 mm posterior right;
F28 18 mm posterior left; F29 seminal vesicle right; F30 seminal vesicle
left.

. u

G. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "distal
prostatic urethra" which consists of a single fragment of red—tan soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1 x 0.9 cm and is entirely submitted for frozen in

G1.
Patient ID #: ‘

DOB=‘IIIIIIIIII(Age:

Date of Report:
Date of Procedure:
Date of Receipt:

Submitted by:
Location:
Test performed by:

Lab and Collection
SURGICAL PATHOLO Y Order ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Result History

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY 0rd _ Jar _ V _ Order Result Histo Reort.
Result Information

Result Date and Time Status Provider Status

‘ Final result Reviewed

MyChart Status:

This result is currently not released to

Display Full Bﬁﬁllll Rgggg Di r r

m » p... 4 nm

