 

£3
1?
\.

\-, ,

 

UUID: 4F047FSB- EFBA- 4596- 8E7A- D90A5236632e4d
TCGA- A1- AOSM- 01A- PR

/CD a 3
cmitaww mWfMW-iw 1W; 8500/3

51/1.- W/I/a; 030. ‘2 ,lod/a/aI/u

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

B. Left axillary sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

C. Left axillary minor sentinel lymph node #3, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node
(0/1).

D. Left breast, mastectomy:

1. We, 3.5 cm, grade 2, associated with microcalciﬁcations;
see comment.

2. Ductal carcinoma in situ, cribriform, intermediate grade.

3. Gynecomastla.

Note:

Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment

- Laterallty: Left.

- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.

- Invasive tumor size: 3.5 cm maximum diameter.

- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): Grade 2.
Nuclear grade: 3 = 3 points.
Mitotic count: <10 mitotic ﬁgures/10 HPF = 1 point.
Tubule/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation in <10% = 3 points.
Total points and overall grade: 7 points = grade 2.

- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None.

- Perlneural invasion: None.

- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide D4).

 

Page i of 8

u . V
a. few i

Surgical Pathology —-_ WorkiniDraft

- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).

- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).

- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).

- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.8 cm away, on slide D3).

- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: Cribriform.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ size: 0.3 cm.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: Intermediate nuclear grade.
- Necrosis in DCIS: None.
- Mlcrocalciflcatlons: Present in invasive carcinoma.
~ Resection margins for ductai carcinoma in situ:
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
— Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
— Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).

- Lymph node status: Negative (0/3).

— AJCC/UICC stage: pT2NOMX.

— Nontumorous breast tissue: Gynecomastia.
- Nipple: No tumor.

- Skin/dermis: No tumor.

- Additional comments: Each sentinel lymph node was examined with level sections. No metastatic
carcinoma was identiﬁed.

 

has reviewed selected slides and concurs with the findings.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
FS1 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1. left axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. Cytologic preparations and frozen
section. _, .

F82 (B) Sentinel lymph node #2, left axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. Cytologlc preparations and frozen
section- (_ ’

Clinical History

The patient is a -year—old (a with invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast. This diagnosis was
estabHShed by Cmt another institIIl'V'm Thaf hinncu Showed that the carcinoma is ER, PR,
and HER-Z-positlve.

 

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in four parts, each labeled with the patient's name and unit number.

Part A, labeled "4 :1 consists of a single soft irregular
red-yellow candidate lymph node measuring 2.7 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm. Extraneous fatty tissue is removed.
The candidate lymph node is bisected. Touch and scrape preparations are made. The remaining
lymph node is submitted for frozen section, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The unused
fatty tissue is entirely submitted in cassette A2.

Part B, labeled " mists of a single soft irregular red—yellow
candidate lymph noae measuring 1./ x 0.5 x U./ cm. Extraneous fatty tissue is removed. The lymph
node is bisected. Touch and scrape preparations are made. The remaining lymph node is submitted
for frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette Bl. The unused fatty tissue is
entirely submitted in cassette 82.

Part C, additionally labeled " ," consists of a single fragment of yellow ﬁbrofatty
tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. One candidate lymph node ls palpated within the fatty tissue. The

 

PaecZ nf8

Surgical Pathology — _Wori{ing Draft
specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C1.

Part D, additionally labeled consists of a mastectomy specimen oriented with
a short suture superior and a mug suture lateral. The specimen measures 14.2 cm from superior to
inferior, 14.5 cm from medial to lateral and 3 cm from anterior to posterior. On the anterior surface,
there is a skin ellipse measuring 12.4 x 4.6 cm. Within the skin ellipse is a nipple/areola measuring 2
cm in diameter. A firm mass is palpated deep and medial to the nipple in the inner upper and lower
quadrants. The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation, with the anterior superior inked in blue,
the anterior inferior inked in green and the posterior inked in black. The specimen is then sectioned
into fifteen slices, numbered from medial to lateral. The nipple-areolar complex appears in slices 5-7.
Sectioning shows an irregular, lobuiated, pink-tan mass measuring 3.5 cm; this is located in the inner
lower quadrant deep to the nipple, in slices 5-7. The cyst mass extends to within 0.7 cm of the deep
margin, 1.7 cm from the anterior superior margin, and 1.9 cm from the anterior inferior margin. The
remainder of the breast parenchyma consists of yellow fatty tissue and is unremarkable. Cassettes
are submitted as follows:

Cassettes 01-02: Nipple.

Cassettes D3—D4: Mass, slice 5.

Cassettes D5-D7: Mass, slice 6 (widest cross-section superior to inferior).

 

Cassette D8: Representative medial margin.
Cassette D9: Representative lateral margin.
Cassette D10: Representative unremarkable inner upper quadrant, slice 2.
Cassette 011: Representative unremarkable inner upper quadrant, slice 4.
Cassette 012: Representative unremarkable inner lower quadrant, slice 3.
Cassette D13: Representative unremarkable inner lower quadrant, slice 4.
Cassette D14: Representative unremarkable outer upper quadrant, slice 9.
Cassette DlS: Representative unremarkable outer upper quadrant, slice 12.
Cassette D16: Representative unremarkable outer lower quadrant, slice 10.
Cassette D17: Representative unremarkable outer lower quadrant, slice 13.
_’Pathology Resident .{Pathologist
Signed:
Fee Codes:
3
Addenda
Addendum. Date Ordered: ' Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: By:

Date Reported:

Addendum Comment

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HERZ was
performed on block 06.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is variable nuclear staining (ranging from weak to
strong) in ~20% of tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is positive for HERZ/neu oncoproteln over~expression.

 

Page 3 of 8

 

Surgical PatholoWoridgg Draft

An immunohistochemical assay was performed using the C811 monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu
oncoproteln. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 3 on a scale of 0-3.

 

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over~expression of HERZ/neu oncoproteln.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoproteln. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohlstochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

The Immmmamymme stainlsl reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the '

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLlA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

-Palhologisi

Electronically signed out on

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out: .

 

Fame 4 of 8

Surgical Patholo - Workﬁg Draft

 

rev—‘1
—_

 

Pagc50f8

Surgical Pathology - QWorking Draft

 

_Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessione '

Surgical Pathology -.Working Draft

 

Page 7 of 8

 

Surgical Pathoﬂgy -.ﬂorking Draft

 

END OF REPORT Panel! ol‘8

