UUID:4A68A36C-67BB-4372-534D-94754F636E97 ' D 0 -
TcaA-77-Asss-o1A-PR Redacted ' 11am ass
I" Chi“: mom, 8 O

l
lllll lllll llllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll 641/ [10.3 80705

I ll lll
lllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllll|||l (3, fa . (334:3, “la/at" A32, 2.,
Histopathology Report b

l
HISTORY 92 5 1/7/13
Right pneumonectomy. Right upper lobe NSCLC ﬁrst dissected in attempted
lobectomy.

llll
llll
llll

MACROSCOPIC
Three specimens received.

1: The specimen is received fresh and is labelled "right lung" and consists of

a right pneumonectomy specimen measuring 230 x 135 x 40 mm. Arising in the
right lower bronchus, 17 mm from the bronchial resection margin, is an
ulcerated friable cream tumour bulging into the bronchial lumen and invading
through the wall into the lung parenchyma. The tumour measures 35 x 35 x 20
mm. The bronchus distal to this lesion shows bronchiectasis. The surrounding
pleura shows multiple subpleural lymph nodes extending towards the inferior
aspect of the lower lobe. Sectioning the tumour mass shows multiple involved
nodes in direct contact with the tumour. Distal to the tumour there is also

focal collapse with or without consolidation. At the inferior (diaphragmatic)
aspect of the lower lobe is an area of pleural thickening which appears
unrelated to the tumour. [1A, bronchial resection margin; lB-C, hilar lymph
nodes; ID-G, RS of tumour including junction with normalwappearing bronchus and
extension into local lymph nodes and possibly down local, bronchi; 1H, deeper
ti55ue; 11, distal collapse; I], subpleural nodules; 1K, diaphragmatic pleural
thickening; 1L, uninvolved lung; 1F and 16 are contiguous}.

2: The specimen'is labelled "hilar lymph node 1" and consists of a ragged
portion of haemorrhagic tissue measuring 10 x 7 x 4 mm. (BIT, 2A].

3: The specimen is labelled "subcarinai" and consists of a portion of
haemorrhagic tissue measuring 20 x 12 x 4 mm. {3H, 3A].

MICROSCOPIC

1: Sections show a poorly differentiated carcinoma showing features of squamous
cell carcinoma. The lesion is arising in the region of a major bronchus.

Pleural invasion is not identiﬁed. There is prominent blood vessel invasion

but no lymphatic permeation is seen. No perineuml permeation is identiﬁed.

The lesion is well clear of the bronchial resection margin.
Peribronchlal/peritumoral lymph node metastases are seen. The subpleural
nodules are lymph nodes showing reactive changes only. The lung distal to the
tumour shows acute and organising pneumonia. The area of pleural thickening is
a zone of irregular pleural scarring with overlying organising fibrinous

exudate. The pattern of the pleural scarring is in keeping with round

atelectasis.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no
evidence of malignancy.

V- Page 2 of 2

3: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There is no
evidence of malignancy.

SUMMARY

Right lung and lymph nodes:

1: Peony differentiated squamous cell carcinoma; 35 mm in maximal dimension.
2: Blood vessel permeation present; no lymphatic or perineural invasion is

seen.

3: No pleural invasion identiﬁed; clear of bronchial margin.

4: Peribronchiai lymph node metastases-

5; T2N1MX

6: Distal acute and organising pneumonia; focal round atelectasls.

Reported :
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT

The tumour cells fail to stain with neuroendocrine markers. The lesion is a
squamous cell carcinoma without evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation.

T—ZBOOG M—8D703 PLOBOOO

Copies:

 

ANATO MICM. PATHOLOGY

 

Repon: generated:

 

:rllavla -

Tumor

 

