-
Patient: -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "Left frontal operculartumor":
OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, WHO GRADE ii. SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Aperio

Ki67
Percent : 4.7%

Cells counted : 49,964 cells

This test was performed by. in conjunction with the—

assisted image analysis.

Microscopic Description:
1. Left frontal opercular tumor:
History of Previous Tumor/Familial Syndrome: None known

Specimen Type/Procedure: Open biopsy

Specimen Handling: Squash / smear/touch preparation
Frozen tissue
Unfrozen for routine permanent

paraffin sections

Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 1.5 cm
Additional dimension: 1.0 cm
Additional dimension: 0.3 cm

Laterality: Left

Tumor Site: Brain/cerebrum-Frontal
Brain/cerebrum-Other: Operculum

Histologic Type and Grade: Oligodendroglioma (WHO grade II)

Histologic Grade: WHO Grade II

Margins: Cannot be assessed

Ancillary Studies: Immunohistochemistry: GFAP, Ki67,
p53

Molecular genetic studies: 1p19q
FISH Pending

 

The tumor is composed of sheets of cells with round nuclei. In areas

of the tumor specimen, many tumor cells have perinuclear halos. The
tumor cells infiltrate cerebral grey matter. While mitotic figures are
identified in tumor cells, the mitotic rate is not high. The Ki67
proliferation index is 4.7%. While scattered tumor cells show positive
immunohistochemical staining for GFAP, many tumor cells are negative
for GFAP. Immunohistochemical stain for p53 is negative in tumor
cells. Neither endothelial proliferation nor tumor necrosis is

identified in the totally submitted surgical specimen. An addendum
with the result of an iron stain will be issued.

1p19a FISH analysis has been requested and a separate report will be
issued.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:

1. Left frontal opercular tumor: Glial neoplasm, possible
oligodendroglioma. Frozen section diagnosis by.-

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

Left frontal tumor

Source of Specimen:
1: Left frontal opercular tumor

Gross Description:

1. Left frontal opercular tumor: Received fresh for frozen analysis

in a specimen container labeled with the patient's name and "#1 left
frontal opercular tumor" is an aggregate of tan-pink soft tissue
measuring 1.5 x 1 x 0.3 cm. Touch preparations and frozen section are
performed, and the specimen is entirely submitted for permanent
sectioning as follows:

A. Representative estimate, frozen section control

B. Remainder of specimen

—)

Histology Laboratory

Part 1: Left frontal opercular tumor

19q - FISH

1p - FISH

GLIAL FIBRIALLARY ACIDIC PROTEIN (GFAP)
Kl 67 (Aperio)

MOLECULAR H&E

P 53

PERL'S IRON

Immunohistochemistry Notes
1. Quantification of immunohistochemistry assay for ER and PR studies

is by the method 01‘—

2. Pathway Her-2/neu (4B5) (Rabbit monoclonal) - Formalin-fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue. UltraView Universal Detection Kit.
Interpretation follows the manufacturer' 5 recommendation.

3. EGFR (3C6) (Mouse Monoclonal) Formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded
tissue. UltraView Universal Detection Kit.

4. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent
(ASR). These tests were developed and their performance
characteristics determined by the Clinical Laboratory of-
—

They have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.

MEDICAL GENETICS REPORT

EVALUATION:

ASSAY PERFORMED: del(1p)del(19q) BY FLUORESCENT IN-SITU HYBRIDIZATION
(FISH)

RESULT: Positive for the deletion of 1p
Positive for the deletion of 19q

NOMENCLATURE:nuc ish 1p36(P73 x 1~2),1q24(ANGPTL1 x
1"”4)[200]/19p13(ZN F44 x 1"4),19q13(GLTSCR x 1~2)[2oo1

1p36/1q24

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 1p/1q: 0.76

% cells with del 1p: 38%

19q13/19p13

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 19q/19p: 0.71

% cells with del 19q: 47.5%

INTERPRETATION: The results are less than the normal range and suggest
deletions of 1p and 19q in this Oligodendroglioma _). del
(1p) and del(19q) has been observed in glioma specimens, especially
oligodendrogliomas. Clinical and pathologic correlation is recommended.

Comment:

(Cytogeneticist)

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Data Analysis:

DESCRIPTION OF THE ASSAY: 1p and 19q FISH studies were performed on
paraffin embedded tumor sections. Two hybridizations were performed:
one with a 1p/1q probe/control pair and one with a 19q/19p

probe/control pair. The 19q and 1p probes map to regions that are
commonly deleted in gliomas. The nuclei are counterstained with DAPI
and the cells examined by epi-fluorescence microscopy. The total
number of counts for each probe is determined in 200 cells and the
ratios of 1p/1q and 19q/19p are calculated.

Normal range: The normal ratio is approximately 1. Any ratio > 0.80 is
considered normal.

LIMITATIONS: Low levels of malignant cells in the specimen can result
in a false negative result. As with all laboratory tests, sampling

error and other factors may affect the outcome of the assay.
Correlation of results with other clinical and laboratory data should
be obtained.

COMMENT: This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by the Molecular Pathology Laboratory at—

—. It has not been cleared or approved by the US.

Food and Drug Administration.

This test is not to be used as a diagnostic procedure without
confirmation of the diagnosis by another medically established product
or procedure.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:
Oligodendroglioma

