SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY TO: _

Pre—Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis , a (
Same as above / CA )

cr 'calHl to \ 3‘11 AM a

Nort‘i‘iinginsdicgted AWW‘ WW , 5 f3? /3
D ' ‘ ; - . -

gaszargscnption . 51%” ‘ 0 541

Container labeled "—1 - left pelvic lymph nodes" is 5.1

x 2.6 x 1.8 cm portion of tan yellow ﬂbroadipose tissue which on 9/3”,
palpation and sectioning reveals ﬁve poorly defined tan yellow to

brown nodules from 1.1 to 2.1 cm. On sectioning the larger nodules

have ﬂeshy and fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned

and submitted labeled A-B; remaining nodules bisected and

individually submitted labeled C—F.

 

Container labeled "—2 - left aortic lymph nodes" is 4.8

x 1.5 x 1.0 cm elongated portion of ten yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue
which on palpation and sectioning reveals three poorly deﬁned tan
yellow nodules up to 1.5 cm. On sectioning the larger nodules have
ﬂeshy and fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodules are bisected and
individually submitted labeled A-B; whole smallest nodule submitted
labeled C. ,

Container labeled "—3 — right pelvic lymph nodes" is

9.0 x 3.5 x 1.8 cm portion of ten yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue which

on palpation and sectioning reveals several poorly deﬁned tan
yellow nodules up to 3.4 cm. On sectioning these have ﬂeshy and
fatty cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted
labeled A-C; individual nodules bisected and submitted labeled D-F;
whole smaller nodules submitted labeled G.

uum:sasiarss-asm-arau-Aazs-zamaasvnsa
TCGA-AJ-A2QO 1A-P

Ill IIlll||llll|||||l||||l|||l|lll|l|l Il'llllllllllIlIllllillell‘l‘l-il‘lclllceal
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
llllmlllnllﬂ.lllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllll

Container labeled "—4 - right aortic lymph nodes" is

4.9 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm tan yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which on
palpation and sectioning reveals two poorly deﬁned tan yellow
nodules 2.5 cm and 3.8 cm. On sectioning there are fleshy and fatty
cut surfaces. The largest nodule is sectioned and submitted labeled
A-B; smaller nodule bisected and submitted labeled C.

Container labeled "—5 — uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes
and bilateral ovaries" is a previously laterally opened moderately
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The
uterus and cervix together weigh 67 grams and on reconstruction
measure approximately 6.9 x 6.4 x 4.7 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
gray-tan ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 5.8 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by trabeculated tan gray to brown mucosa. The uterine
serosa is smooth and tan-brown. The architecture is distorted by
me presence of a left fundlc subserosal nodule 1.6 cm as well as a
left lateral subserosal to intramural nodule 1.8 cm. The lateral
nodule has a bulging whorled tan gray ﬂbrotic cut surface while the
fundic nodule has a focally calciﬁed cut surface. The uninvolved
myometrium measures up to 1.9 cm and is tan-pink and ﬂbrotic. The
endometrial canal is lined at the fundus extending to both the
anterior and posterior aspects by a 3.5 x 3.3 x up to 0.9 cm friable
granular gray tan to pink papilliferous plaque like lesion. On
sectioning this has a friable gray pink cut surface and grossly
extends into the myometrlum in the right lateral fundic region to a
maximum thickness of 2.4 cm. This is focally noted at its nearest
point 0.3 cm from the right lateral serosa. The small amount of
parametrlal soft tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross
lesions. The left fallopian tube measures 4.1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The
right fallopian tube measures 4.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each has a smooth
tan brown serosa with a tan wall and pinpoint lumen. The left ovary
measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm and has a Iobular tan outer surface with
a mottled tan gray ﬁbrotlc cut surface. The right ovary measures

1.6 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm and has a Iobular tan outer surface with a

mottled tan gray ﬁbrotic cut surface. Also received in the same
container are 6.2 x 5.0 x 1.8 cm of friable granular papilliferous

gray tan to pink lesional tissue fragments with a small amount of
clotted blood. Also received in the earns container are two tissue
cassettes each labeled . Representative sections
are submitted labeled as ronows: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior
cervix; C - lower uterine segment and shaved posterior serosa; D -
representative fundic subserosal nodule; E—G — anterior
endomyometrium; H-K - posterior endomyometrium; L-M - left lateral
endomyometn'um; N-O - right lateral endomyometrium; P-S - fundlc
endomyometrlum; T - left parametrium; U - right parametrlum; V -
left adnexa; W - right adnexa; X ~ separate lesional tissue.

Microscopic Description:
Slides reviewed.

Final Diagnosis

Left pelvic lymph node dissection:

Five benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/5).
Left aortic lymph node dissection:

Three benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/3).
Right pelvic lymph node dissection:

Six benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (016).
Right aortic lymph node dissection:
Two benign hyperplastlc regional lymph nodes (012).
Hysterectomy:
Carcinoma of endometrium.
Tumor characteristics;
Histologlc type: Predominantly endometrioid with some mucinous
features.
Histologio grade: High grade (GB).
Location; Endometrial canal in general.
Tumor size: 3.5 x 3.3 x 1.6 cm.
Extent of invasion: Invades more than one half of the myometrium.
Maximal thickness of myometrial invasion is 16 mm into a 19 mm
thick myometrlum.
Extension of tumor.
Extent of involvement of other organs: None identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Focally identiﬁed.
Surgical margin status: .
Cervical: Negative.
Left parametnal: Negative.
Right parametrial: Negative.
Lymph node status (utilizing specimens #1. 2, 3. 4.
Sites: Bilateral pelvic. bilateral aortic.
Number of lymph nodes examined: 16.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: None
(0116).
Other.
Cervix-endocervix:
No pathological diagnosis,
Endometrium:
Focal complex hyperplasia with atypia immediately adjacent to
neoplasm.
Myometrium:
Adenomyosis, leiomyomas.
Uterine serosa. bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes:
No pathological diagnosis.
Other organs or biopsies:
None.
Correlation with intraoperative ﬁndings:
None.
Results of additional studies:
None.
pTN stage: pT1bN0 PAS 9 SPC~A

CPT:

Comments
This test has been ﬁnalized at the-

<Slgn Out Dr. Signature>

