RIGHT LUNG AND LYMPH Nooes

Clinical Notes:
emale.
SOB.
lax-smoker.
SCC middle lobe R.
Positive pleural plaque on frozen section.
Local involvement: PA, sup PV and pericardium.

Four specimens are received:

1: R PLEURA FROZEN SECTION

Macroscopy:

Specimen consists of a strip of pleura measuring 35 x 30 x 3 mm and bearing a central plaque
measuring 23 X 8 mm. RS taken for frozen section.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:
Plaque-like area in pleura containing metastatic non small cell carcinoma.

Phoned to Anaesthetist by Dr —

[Frozen section remnant, 1A; remainder of tissue BIT, 1B].

Microscopy:

Parafﬁn sections conﬁrm the frozen section diagnosis of involvement of the pleura by non—
small cell carcinoma. There is an inﬂltrative component in addition to tumour on the pleural
surface.

2: R MIDDLE LOBE

Macrosccpy:

Specimen consists of a middle lobectcmy specimen measuring 125 x 100 x 22 mm in the
inﬂated state. On the anterolateral pleural surface there is a grey depressed puckered area
measuring 12 X 4 mm. Sectioning the lung tissue reveals a pale mass located immediately
adjacent to the pleura. This measures 25 mm in maximal dimension. It shows central necrosis.
It is located more than 35 mm ﬁom the bronchial resection margin. [Bronchial resection
margin, 2A; tumour with pleura, ZB-ZD; peribronchial lymph nodes and tissue deep to
bronchial resection margin, 2E; macroscopically normal lung tissue, 2F].

Microscopy:

Sections Show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in which there is invasion
of the visceral pleura as well as vascular, lymphatic and perineural invasion The tumour
extends proximally along the bronchovascular structures to involve the bronchial resection
margin. Peribronchial lymph nodes, including those at the margin, shovi.r extensive
replacement by metastatic carcinoma. The adjacent lung tissue shows mild emphysema.

3: R PLEURAL NODULE

Macroscopy:

Specimen consists of a single rounded dark red piece of tissue measuring 6 X 6 x 2 mm.
[Bisected and BIT].

Microscopy:

Sections show vascular ﬁbrous connective tissue containing metastatic adenocarcinorna.

4: SUMP LYMPH NODE

 

II-I-Macroscopy:
Specimen consists of a single black piece of tissue measuring 7 X 4 X 2 mm [BIT, 4A]. [-

Microscopy:
The lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy.

Summary: Right middle lobe:

. Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma; 25 mm maximal dimension. '
: Pleural invasion and separate parietal pleura deposit.

Vascular, lymphatic and perineural invasion.

Present at bronchial resection margin.

:_ Peribronchial lymph node metastases.

Pathological stage T4N1MX.

9"“95‘1‘1‘3“

T-ZSOGO M-81403 Pl-03 000

Reported b

Patholo ii ReiistrarfAnatomical Pathologist

 

