RESUII‘S GRUSS AND MICROSCOPIC“

 

speei'aem' l'hfofrﬁStIBH

iibiliiifti n Hi Ii iitd Time

Component Results
SURGICAL PANEL:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY R
LAB:
Phon

  
  

DIAGNOSIS
PANCREAS, DUODENUM, STOMACH, AND GALLBLADDER, WHIPPLE RESECTION AND

CHOLECYSTECTOMY:
1. Invasive moderately differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma,
characterized by:
a. Tumor size: 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.8 cm
b. Tumor arises in pancreatic head from background IPMN with
high grade dysplasia
0. Tumor invades beyond the pancreas and involves duodenum
2. Multiple (2 of 10) regional lymph nodes are positive for
metastatic adenocarcinoma
3. Surgical margins are involved by adenocarcinoma at the portal
vein groove and microscopically at the retroperitoneal margin
4. Gallbladder with chronic cholecystitis and cholesterolosis
5. See staging parameters

   
 
 

Case number:
Staging “Etr- u

Final TNM: pT3N1MO
-tage: IIB

 

MACROSCOPIC
SPECIMEN TYPE
Whipple, Standard
TUMOR SITE
Pancreatic head
TUMOR SIZE
4.0 X 3.0 X 1.8 cm

MICROSCOPIC
HlSTOLOGIC TYPE
Ductal Adenocarcinoima
HISTOLOGIC GRADE
G2: (moderately differentiated) of G4
MARGINS - PANCREATICODUODECTOMY
Involved by invasive carcinoma
Location(s): Pancreatic retroperitoneal, Portal Vein Groove
Margin(s) evaluated: Proximal (stomach), Distal (duodenum),
Pancreatic retroperitoneal, Bile duct, Distal pancreatic,
Portal Vein Groove, Pancreatic uncinate

     

LYMPHATICNASCULAR INVASION

Present: Lymph-vascular invasion present/Identiﬁed
PERINEURAL. INVASION

Present

PATHOLOGIC STAGING
EXTENT OF INVASION
pT3. (Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement
of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery)
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES
pN1. (Regional lymph node metastasis)
Total nodes: 10
Total positive nodes: 2
DISTANT METASTASIS
pMO. (No distant metastasis)
PATHOLOGIC STAGE SUMMARY
Final TNM: pT3N1M0
stage: “8
** The pathologic stage presumes no distant metastasis.

   

Attending Pathologist:

 
 

CLINICAL INFORMATION
History of pancreas cancer.

SPECIMEN/GROSS DESCRIPTION

A) SOURCE: Whipple

The specimen is received fresh from the OR labeled "Whipple." It consists

of a 4 x 3 x 1.8 cm indurated, markedly ill—deﬁned pancreatic mass found
within a Whipple specimen; 6.8 x 4.2 x 2.7 cm pancreatic head, 26 cm in
length x 6 cm internal circumference duodenum, 6-9 cm in length and up to
6.3 cm in diameter distal gastrectomy, 10.8 cm in length and 3 cm in
diameter intact gallbladder. The pancreas isreceived previously inked by

the surgeon as follows: Pancreatic margin is blue, common‘bile duct margin
is green, portal vein d is red, retroperitoneal margin is black, and 35
uncinate margin is ye low. Seven representative sections of the tumor are
frozen on seven blocks.

ll
INTRAOPERATIVE PATHOLOGY CONSULTATION WITH FROZEN SECTION: "Microscopic
focus of tumor at portal vein bed; uncinate negative by < 1 mm; portal vein
branch, retr"' ' ' , bile duct, distal pancreas margins negative" is
rendered b

  

On cut surfce, the tumor is approximately 0.5 cm from the pancreatic margin
and 3.2 cm from the common bile duct margin (common bile duct is 5 cm long
and 1-2 cm in internal circumference). The pancreatic mass is approximately
0.1 cm from the remaining margins grossly.

The mucosa at the ampulla of Vater diSplays irregular folds and is vaguely
nodular. A discrete mass lesion is not seen on the mucosa. The gallbladder
has smooth serosa and bile in its lumen. The common bile duct is received
with a blue tubular stent. No inscriptions on the stent are seen.

The cut surfaces of the peripancreatic fat display ﬁve possible lymph

nodes which measure between 0.8-1.3 cm in greatest dimension. One of the
lymph nodes have ten, solid cut surfaces. The cut surfaces of the remaining
adipose tissue display four possible lymph nodes within the adipose tissue

of the greater curvature. These lymph nodes are fatty and soft and measure
between 0.3-1.3 cm in greatest dimension. _

 

Note: The gross specimen was photographed. Tissue was retrieved from the
specimen for possible tumor study.

Note: On sectioning of the pancreas, the pancreatic duct is patent
measuring 0.3-0.4 cm in diameter.

Representative sections are submitted in 42 cassettes labeled:

AFSl Frozen section residue, en face common bile duct margin
AFSZ, 3. Frozen section residue, en face pancreatic margin

AFS4. Frozen section residue, pancreatic mass with uncinate margin
AFSS. Frozen section residue pancreatic mass with portal vein bed
AFSG. Frozen section residue, portal vein branch, en face

AFS7. Frozen section residue, pancreatic mass with retroperitoneum
8,9. Pancreatic mass and portal vein bed near the pancreatic margin

10. Pancreatic mass and portal vein bed inferiorly near frozen
section #5
11. Remainder of the portal vein bed adjacent to cassette 10

12-16. Pancreatic mass and black-inked retroperitoneum

17,18. Remainder of the possible lymph node submitted in cassette 16

19, 20. Pancreatic mass and yellow-inked uncin‘ te

21,22. Pancreatic mass with common bile duct, ampulla of Vater and
duodenum

23. Distal pancreas (previously sampled en face margin) with
possible pancreatic duct

24. Gallbladder wall

25,26. En face distal duodenal margin

27. Pylorus

28. En face proximal margin closest to tumor (less than one-third
of the margin)

29,30. One lymph node, peripancreatic soft tissue

31. Three peripancreatic lymph nodes, two without ink are submitted
in toto, and one is inked black and bisected

32. One possible peripancreatic lymph node

33-35 Peripancreatic soft tissue to include additional possible lymph
nodes

36,37. Scant attached duodenal adipose tissue to include possible
lymph nodes

38,39 Lesser curvatlire, representative sections to include possible
lymph nbdes S

40. One lymph node, greater curvature

41. One lymph node, greater curvature

42. Two lymph nodes, one is inked blue and greater curvature

Tissue was retrieved from the specimen for possible tumor study.

This case is accessioned in—

MICROSCOPIC
The micros Wntiates the diagnosis. Dictation b-

transcribeW

We. feted at —

—ab and C ‘

 

 

