UUID : 455099D5-2E5F-4B70-9517-D37BC5CMD40
TCGA-DK-ABXl-DlA-PR Radacted
l|||||||||

||| llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||I| II
III ||I||||lllllllllllllllllllllIIHIIIHllllllllllllllllmlllmﬂ

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:
Med. Rec. #2 Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: Location: . Date of Receipt:

Gender: Service: Urorogy Date of Report: _
Ref. Physician: Account #1

Patient Address: Billing Type:

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

_Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:
' ' year old with pT2 urothelial cell carcinoma. status post 2 courses of ECG.

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: SP: Uterus, cervix. bilateral tubes and ovaries anterior vaginal wall. bladder, perivesical lymph nodes
2: SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes

3: SP: Left pelvic lymph node

4: SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes

5: SP: Right distal ureter

6: SP: Left distal ureter

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. SP: Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries anterior vaginal wall, bladder, perivesical lymph nodes:

Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade ’ CD 0,3

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:

In situ component not identiﬁed Ca(crndﬂal \AJD‘H‘KJJ' A i , “03

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component: I
Inﬁltrating Z t 2‘0 3

Tumor Mu‘ticeﬁértﬂzntiﬁed 5 Ha ; L‘QC‘CW/ C’W

Bladder Local invasion: C (0') i i
Perivesical soft tissues

Extravesical Tumor Extension: 'S’LE” 2 {ap
Ureters uninvolved

Vascular Invasion:
No deﬁnite vascular invasion present

Perineural Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:

         
 

  

 

 

Free of tumor 2:1; Y“ i
See also parts 5 and 6 fﬁngﬂwL_ : N S
Non-Neoplastic Mucosa: ‘- 1°3— _- Ed
Exhibiting chronic cystitis h M’ ' piggy-g. ,WUMWD. .Jé_ \o/
Exhibiting foreign body reaction —“— ‘- ' .- ram?
d..- :____, _0__ _\~7_g _ — “1.

 

Page 1 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Female Genital Organs:
The endometrium shows endometrial polyp
The myometrium shows mural leiomyomas
The left fallopian tube shows simple serous cysts
The right ovary shows hilus cell and stromal hyperplasia
The left ovary shows stromal hyperplasia
Remaining genital organs are unremarkable

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
LN Not involved 0/1

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC
pT3 (invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

 

2. SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:2

 

3. SP: Left pelvic lymph node:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:8

 

4. SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:8

 

5. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Ureter with focal mild atypia.

6. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Benign ureter.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Gross Description:

1) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries. anterior vaginal wall, bladder and perivesical
lymph nodes". It consists of a cystectomy-hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen measuring 11 cm from
superior to inferior, 12cm laterally and 5cm from anterior to posterior. The bladder measures 13 x 11cm, the uterus measures 5 x
4.6 x 2.8 cm, the right ovary measures 2.2 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm, the right fallopian tube measures 5.4 x 0.7 cm, the left ovary measures
2.7 x 1.3 x 0.9 cm. and the left fallopian tube measures 4 x 0.7 cm. The portion of vaginal cuff measures 5.5 x 2.0 cm. The distal
urethral margin and the vaginal cuff margin are shaved and submitted. The ureteric stumps are buried in the specimen, measure
approximately 2 cm and show probe-patent lumen. The specimen is inked black for posterior, blue for anterior and the bladder is
opened anteriorly to reveal a friable fungating mass measuring 3.3 x 2.4 cm located in the dome focally extending to trigone. The
distance from the left and the right ureteric oriﬁces are 5.2 cm and 5.3 cm respectively. On sectioning, the tumor extends to a depth

 

Page 2 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

of 2.0 cm, and appears to extend into the perivesical fat grossly reaching to the subserosa. The remaining bladder mucosa shows
ﬂat mucosa without additional lesion. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are not identiﬁed. The uterus is bivalved to reveal multiple
ﬁbroids ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 cm and endometrial polyp measuring 2 x 1.2 x 0.2 cm. The ovaries and fallopian tubes are
unremarkable. Tissue is submitted for . Gross photograph is taken. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
UTHM - urethral margin
RUM - right ureter margin
LUM -left ureter margin

L -lesion

RUO -right ureteric oriﬁce
LUO -left ureteric oriﬁce
LP-lef‘t posterior wall

LA -left anterior wall
RP-right posterior wall

RA -right anterior wall

TRI -trigone

EMM -endomyometrium
CX-cervix

V - vagina, full thickness to include bladder mucosa
DVM -distal vaginal margin
RTO -right tube and ovary
LTO-left tube and ovary
LN — possible lymph node

2). The specimen is received fresh , labeled "Right distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of 2 pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
measuring 0.7 x 0.6 cm and 2.0 x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The larger lymph node is inked black and bisected. All identiﬁed
lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes

3). The specimen is received fresh labeled "Left pelvic lymph nodes". It consists of multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 x 0.2
cm up to 3 x 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are serially sectioned at 3 mm intervals and submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN-lymph nodes

BLN-bisected lymph node
LN1-Iymph node number one
LN2-Iymph node number two
LN3-lymph node number three

4).The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Left distal pelvic lymph node" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.2 x 0.2 cm up to 3.5 x 1 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes
BLN— bisected lymph node

5). The specimen is received in formalin labeled "Right distal ureter unclipped is a margin." it consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The attached adipose tissue measures up to 1.5 cm in thickness. There is a

clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially sectioned from the clipped to the non-clipped end and submitted
entirely.

Summary of sections:
MC-margin with clip
SS—serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

. margin without clip

6). The specimen is received in fonnaiin labeled "Left distal ureter unclipped is a margin." It consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 3.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The attached adipose tissue measures up to 1.5 cm in thickness. There is a
clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially sectioned from the clipped to the non-clipped end and submitted
entirely.

Summary of sections:

MC-margin with clip

SS-serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end
MWC-margin without clip

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries anterior vaginal wall, bladder, perivesical lymph nodes

Block Sect. Site PCs
cx
dnm
emm

FD
rum
ruo
tri
uthm
v

A—l—l—X—A—J—l—L—k—l‘g—k—lmN—Lg
E'Es'
3
AAAAAANNAANNANQNAN

Part 2: SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 In 1

Part 3: SP: Left pelvic lymph node

Block Sect. Site P
bin 1
In 1
|n1 2
ln2 2
in3 2

NNNA—K

Part 4: SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes

Block Sect. Site P03
1 BLN 1
1 LN 1

Part 5: SP: Right distal ureter

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 mo 1

 

Page 4 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

1 mwc 1
1 ss 1

Part 6: SP: Left distal ureter

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 MC 1
1 MWC 1
1 SS 1

 

Page 5 of 5 END OF REPORT

