Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Lymph node, right level 10, excision:
One benign lymph node.

B. Lymph node, right level 4, excision:
Three benign lymph nodes.

C. Lymph node, right level 2, excision:
Three benign lymph nodes.

D. Lymph node, level 7, excision:
One benign lymph node.

E. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy [FSE]:
Adenocarcinoma.

Specimen: Lung, right upper lobe
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: Upper lobe
Specimen integrity: Disrupted
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4 cm
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, with extensive necrosis
Tumor grade: 2, moderately differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified
Tumor extension: Not applicable
Margins:
Bronchial: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Treatment effect: Cannot be determined
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified

Pathologic staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: None
Primary tumor: pT2
Regional lymph nodes: pNO (including Parts A-B, F)
Number examined: 10
Number involved: 0
Distant metastasis: Cannot be assessed
Additional pathologic findings: Obstructive pneumonia
One benign lymph node.
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

F. Lymph node, level 8, excision:
Fragments of benign anthracotic lymph node.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

***Electronically Signed*** ,l- (Pathologist)

Signing Location:

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

FSE: Right upper lobe diagnosed mass:
Non-small cell carcinoma.
F/S TAT: 11 mins.

-
—
Gross Description:
Received are six specimen containers all labeled with the patient's name,

Part A is received in formalin and additionally labeled "R10 lymph node" and
consists of a single nodular portion of gray-tan anthracotic appearing lymph
node having a greatest dimension of 0.8 cm which is submitted entirely in
cassette A.

Part B is received in formalin and additionally labeled "R4 lymph node" and
consists of three portions of gray-tan nodular soft tissue grossly consistent
with lymph node ranging from 0.5 to 0.8 cm submitted in toto in cassette B.

C is received in formalin and additionally labeled "R2 lymph node" and consists
of three nodular portions of gray-tan soft tissue grossly consistent with lymph
nodes which range from 0.8 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. The two lesser
nodes are submitted in toto in cassette C1. The larger node is bisected and
submitted entirely in cassette C2.

Part D is received in formalin and additionally labeled "Level 7 lymph node" and
consists of a single nodular portion of gray-tan soft tissue grossly consistent
with lymph node having dimensions of 1.1 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm. This tissue is
bisected and submitted entirely in cassette D.

Part E is received fresh for frozen section evaluation having been previously
partially incised additionally labeled "rig ht upper lobe diagnosed mass

(FSE+X)." The specimen consists of a product of a right upper lobectomy having
overall dimensions of 11 x 8 x 4.2 cm. Notable by palpation and confirmed by
step-sectioning there is a subpleural mass which has a tan-white partially
necrotic cut surface with dimensions of 4 x 3.8 x 3 cm which approaches to
within 2 cm of the bronchial margin of surgical resection. A portion of this

lesion is submitted for frozen section evaluation (FSE) with residual frozen
section tissue submitted in cassette E1. Sectioning through the remaining lung
parenchyma reveals probable congestion without distinct "mass." Within the area
of the hilum there are no additional lymph nodes grossly identified.

Sections are submitted as follows:
E1 residual frozen section tissue;
E2 bronchial and vascular margins of surgical resection;
E3-6 representative sections of "mass"
E7 congested uninvolved lung parenchyma.

Part F is received in formalin additionally labeled "Level 8 lymph node" and
consists of a single 2 mm gray-tan soft tissue which is submitted in toto in

cassette F.
—

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

Taken—
END OF REPORT

 

