 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - C.) STOMACH, PANCREATIC LYMPH NODE, GALLBLADDER, TOTAL
GASTRECTOMY, CHOLECYSTECTOMY AND LYMPH NODE BIOPSY:
- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated.
- Tumor size: 3.0 cm.
- Tumor invades muscularis propria.
- Surgical margins free of tumor, closest margin radial at 8 mm.
- Eighteen lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/18).
- Chronic cholecystitis.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, grade 2.
Primary tumor: pT2.
Regional lymph nodes: pNO (0/18 lymph nodes).
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: IB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Margin status: R0, negative.

Tumor Staging Information

Stomach (Data derived from current specimen. Sta in in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer
Staging Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP mommﬁ

 

  

Specimen type:
Other organs received:

Tumor features:
Tumor site:

Tumor size:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:
Microscopic extent of tumor:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Treatment effect:

Lymph nodes:

Margin evaluation:
Proximal margin:
Distal margin:
Omental (radial) margin:
Deep margin:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:

Primary tumor:
Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:
Margin status:
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Comment:

 

 

ota gastrectomy.
Total gastrectomy.
Pancreatic lymph node, gallbladder.

Stomach, tumor is 3.0 cm from the gastro-esophageal
junction with the epicenter ofthe tumor being 4.5 cm
from the GE junction.

3.0 cm.

Adenocarcinoma.

Moderately differentiated, GZ.
Tumor invades muscularis propria.
Not identiﬁed.

N/A.

Eighteen lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/18).

Negative, 3.5 cm.

Negative, greaterthan 10 cm.
Negative, 0.8 cm.

N/A.

pT2.

pNO (0/18 lymph nodes).
pMX.

R0, negative.

lB.

Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), chronic inactive
gastritis with intestinal metaplasia and esophagitis
consistent with gastroesophageal reﬂux.

N/A.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Lymph node;Pancreatic Lymph Node

B. Gallbladder
C. Total Gastrectomy

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
C. Total gastrectomy: Proximal margin negative on fr
interiretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at

Gross Description:

A, Part A is a pancreatic lymph node. Received is a 1.4 x10 x 0.5 cm lymph node candidate. Sectioning
demonstrates a rubbery to ﬁrm, semi-congested, deep red and light gray cut surface. The lymph node is
entirely submitted in A1, bisected.

B. Part B is a gallbladder. Received in formalin is an intact gallbladder measuring 10.2 x2.3 x 2.2 cm.

The serosa is glistening, tan-green. The cystic duct margin is crimped with surgical hardware, and
removed to reveal an obvious patent lumen. The wall is 01-02 cm, and the lumen contains viscous green
bile without calculi; no calculi present within the container. The dome of the fundus is thickened up to 0.4
cm with multiple cysts. The mucosa is velvety and dark green with gross unusual changes suggestive of
neoplasia. Representative sections submitted for microscopic evaluation in B1.

C. Part C is a total gastrectomy. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis and tumor
bank studies. is a total gastrectomy: the greater curvature is 21.7 cm and the left curvature 15.4 cm. The
distal margin of resection is 3.2 cm in diameter, terminating 1.0 cm distal to the pyloric oriﬁce. Perigastric
fat is associated with the lesser and greater curvatures, extends out to 3.5 and 3.0 cm, respectively. The
gastric serosa is hyperemic, light pink to congested purple-red, initially without palpable mass. The
stomach is opened along the greater curvature to reveal a fungating, dusky red tumor mass up to 3.0 x 3.0
cm, oriented 3.0 cm distal to the EG junction, and 3.5 cm from the proximal margin of resection. The

tumor overlies the posterior gastric wall within 1.5 cm ofthe lesser curvature. Sectioning through the tumor
demonstrates tumor involvement of the muscularis propria. The tumor is 7 mm from the radial margin and
overlying fat (C3, C4). The proximal surgical margin is trimmed and submitted for frozen section analysis.
Representation of viable tumor and adjacent gastric tissue is submitted for tumor bank studies. The
remainder ofthe gastric mucosa demonstrates prominent rugae, with the transition into the antrum
showing increased hemorrhagic congestion. No additional ulcerations, mass lesions, or unusual areas of
induration suggestive of additional neoplastic change or tumor involvement. Examination ofthe

perigastric fat associated with the left curvature reveals eleven lymph node candidates, ranging from 0.15
cm to 1.0 cm. The perigastric fat associated with the greater curvature reveals ﬁve lymph node candidates
0.2-0.4 cm.

I

Cassette summary: C1) proximal surgical margin of resection, frozen section, CZ) distal margin of

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

resection, 03-08) tumor, 09—010) perpendicular representation through EG junction and gastric mucosa
adjacent to tumor, C11) gastric fundus and antrum represented, three pieces, 012) ﬁve lymph node
candidates, lesser curvature. 013) ﬁve lymph node candidates, lesser curvature, 014) large lymph node,
bisected, lesser curvature, C15) ﬁve lymph node candidates, greater curvature.

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. lmmunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin and no
metastatic tumor cells are identiﬁed.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

0. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. lmmunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control for Helicobacter, Desmin, MSA,
smooth muscle myosin, 8100, SMA, CD117 and OSCAR keratin. No Helicobacter organisms are identiﬁed
by immunohistochemistry. There is a small bland spindle cell proliferation in the muscularis propria seen
on block 09. The spindle cells are positive for CD117 and focally weakly positive for desmin, SMA, MSA,
smooth muscle myosin and negative for OSCAR keratin and 8-100. The immunohistochemistry staining
pattern is consistent with a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).

 

