1. (3—D Left upper lobe of lung: resected lung tissue weighing 232g, and measuring 190 x 120 x 40 mm, with
anthracosis of the pleura. Located in the peripheral section of S 1 up to the segmental bronchi there is a
polycyclic and well demarcated, grayish-white, hyaline, tumorous node measuring max 28 mm, without pleural
infiltration. The peritumoral section has a signiﬁcantly coarsened edge with an indication of a honeycomb
structure. In the hilar section there are small, lymph nodes with blackish pigment but without any suspicion of a
tumor. No further pulmonary ﬁndings.

Examination report

Macroscopic ﬁndings:

L 12: Tom, node measuring a good 10 mm, with blackish pigment.
L l l: 6 mm node with blackish pigment.

L10: Grayish—black lymph node tissue measuring 20 mm in total.
L 9: Grayish-white node measuring 5 mm with blackish pigment.
L 8: Piece of tissue measuring 4 mm with blackish pigment.

L 7: Node measuring just under 10 mm with blackish pigment.

L 6: Node measuring 12 mm with blackish pigment.

5090:39aner

L 5: Node measuring 7 mm with blackish pigment.

10. L 4: Nodule measuring 2 mm with blackish pigment.

Microscopic ﬁndings:

1. (HE, PAS, EVG) The bronchial resection margin is tumor-free with regular architecture. Next to this, in the
hilar and peribronchial area, there are tumor—free lymph nodes with signiﬁcant anthracosis and slight
histiocytosis. The tumor described is made up of solid, growing structures of immature squamous cell
carcinoma cells with fusocellular morphology with a signiﬁcantly misaligned nucleoplasmic ratio and frequent
mitosis, and with a very sparse and narrow cytoplasmic border. No keratinizing growth. Necrosis included,
alongside stromal desmoplasia. In the area of an embedded subsegmental bronchus there is subepithelia],
intramural tumor propagation. Apart from the tumor, unremarkable pulmonary parenchyma.

2. (HB) Torn lymph node tissue with haemorrhaging and moderate histiocytosis as well as anthracosis. No
indication of tumor.

3. (HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2
(HE) Similar findings to 2
(HE) Similar fmclings to 2
(HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2
(HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2
(HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2

.‘C’E’C’E‘JSJ‘SJ':I=~

(HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2
10. (HB) Similar ﬁndings to 2

 

 

Diagnosis: Resected left superior pulmonary lobe with a badly differentiated and non~keratinizing squamous
cell carcinoma in S l, measuring 28 mm, with subepitheiial, intramural inﬁltration of a subsegmental bronchus
from El, without pleural inﬁltration or discernible hemangioinvasion with tumor—free lymph nodes containing
anthracotic pigment.

2. to 10. Further tumor-free lymph nodes, containing anthracotic pigment.
Tumor classiﬁcation: M—80’70/3, G 3, pr 1, pN 0, leX, stage I A. R0.
Left upper lobe of lung

Lymph nodes

 

