UUID:8866F087-4F6F-4D7E-399A-7DD£27EDSBBB
. TCGA-OR-ASJ1-81A—PR Rlelltilaﬂtiﬂted

|
IN“ llllll“HlllllllllllllHIIHIHIIIIIIHIIIHH llllll
ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllHlHlllllllllll

Deliver To:

ﬁ®£ﬁ3

 

- map/Erma! distal/w 5’

a» Wear-2am rosarysmha

SPECIMEN was: Adrenal Biopsy No: 5,735, @ﬂdem/é‘bd
cork; ewe
CUNMALNOTE&

Histopathology of L) adrenal gland. Conn‘s syndrome (note small section of 94') I 130/ ’5
tumour excised for genetic studies).

MACHOSCOPIC:

"Left adrenal.‘ The specimen consists of an adrenal gland with a post fixation
weight 102.49. It measures 110 x 70 x 60mm. A section of tissue has been
taken from one pole. On sectioning, a nodular lesion with a maximum diameter
of 25 x 30mm. and extending for a length of 70mm, can be identiﬁed. The cut
surface of this lesion is irregular. it can be seen to be compressing the
adjacent normal adrenal tissue.

Block 1: tissue near the excision where previous sampling for genetic studies
has already been performed.

Blocks 2 and 3: lesion where it abuts the normal adrenal gland.

Block 4: lesion with its closest proximity to the excision margin.

Blocks 5-9: further blocks oi lesion.

MICROSCOPIC: ‘

Sections show an adrenal tumour with a predominantly trabecuiar architectural
pattern and demonstrating a mitotic rate of <6 per SOHPF. Cytological atypia is
present. No absolutely deﬁnite vascular invasion is seen. The tumour appears
close but clear of the painted excision margin.

The morphological appearances of this adrenal tumour in association with the
results of immunoperoxldase stains (is. positive for vimentin and negative for
Cam 5.2 and chromogranln) are consistent with a cortical adrenal tumour, which
is considered best regarded as an ”adrenal cortical neoplasm of indeterminate
malignant potential”, and continuing long-term clinical follow-up is strongly
recommended.

SUMMARY: Considered best regarded as an "adrenal cortical tumour of
indeten'ninate malignant potential“.

Note: Please see attached references from Tumours oi the Adrenal Gland and
Extra-Adrenal Paraganglioma by Ernest E.Lack: No 19 - 3rd series; from the
Armed Forces institute of Pathology, Washington 0.0.

T-QSOOO M09350

ADDiTiONAL REPORT: .
ELECTRON MlCHOSCOPY: {received from

 

 

 

Canes

 

[ﬁat-In“! an“ "I 7

<QOPOI£

UPOE%%W Wh0“§0432ﬁ

 

 

Requesting Doctor's information:

Deliver To:

 

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal Biopsy No:

"The majority of cells examined by electron microscopy show the features of
aldosterone-secreting tumours. in particular, mitochondria elongated with
numerous lamellar oristae (“sarcotubuiar' mitochondria), similar to those of
the normal zona giomeruiosa. However, spherical “hybrid" mitochondria with
lamellar or tubular crlstae are also seen. Rough and smooth surfaced
endoplasmic reticulum are present in moderate amounts. Lipid droplets are
sparse. A few pleomorphic nuclei were seen, but the majority appear spherical
with a regular chromatin pattern and a small nucleolus.

Most authorities agree that it is not possible to predict the likely behaviour

of adrenal cortical tumours from their ultrastmoturai appearances. Reliance
should be placed on the usual histological and macroscopic criteria.“

REPORTING PATHOLOGIST:
(Electronic Signature)

‘Process - Skip aw hi4,
'rudermimr MW [John/n1 "
b t 9 3. '

l

    

Dist.

COPIES

 

 

 

Page-2 of a ‘

 

-< 5') 0 i“ a 2i: “i 3 {WWW

ﬁﬁO'Pﬂﬁir-“iﬁl‘ﬁ F'ﬁﬁm-EO-viﬁZﬁ

