 

 

Sgecimenisi Received

. Orai-Cavity: Right marginal mandibulectomy — suture posterior
. Oral Cavity: Right anterior margin

. Orai Cavity: Right mediat margin QS

, Orai Cavity: Right anterior margierS

. Orai Cavity: Right posterior margin 08

. Oral Cavity: Right lateral margin 08

. Oral Cavity: Right deep‘muscte margin QS
. Neck: Right level 1A .

. Neck: Right level 18

10. Neck: Right level 2A

11. Neck: Right ievel 3 & 4

12. Surgical Waste

(OGD'NJCDOQAWN—l

 

Diagnosis
1. Right marginal mandibuieotomy:
- ln—situ and invasive squamous cell carcinoma. moderately differentiated.
Maximum tumour dimension 1.8 cm.
‘ No perineural invasion present.
No iymphovascular invasion present.
Anterior margin positive for squamous carcinoma iii—slit: (CiS).
All other margins are negative for in-situ and invasive carcinoma.
Bone sections pending decaicitication and will be reported in an addendum.

Fences

2. Right anterior margin:
— ln-siiu and focally invasive squamous cetl carcinoma.
a. Squamous carcinoma in-situ (CIS) is present at the mucosa! margin.
b. Bone sections pending decaicification and will be reported in an addendum.

3. Right medial margin:
» Squamous mucosa, negative for tumour.

4. Right anterior margin:
- Positive for squamous carcinoma in-situ (CIS). No invasive carcinoma present.

5. Right posterior margin:
- Squamous mucosa, negative for tumour.

6. Right iaterai margin:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

~ Squamous mucosa, negative for tumour.

7. Right deep muscle margin:
— Skeletal muscle. negative for tumour.

8. Right neck; ievei iA:
— Twelve lymph nodes, negative for tumour (0M2).

9. Right neck; level 18:
- Three lymph nodes, negative for tumour (013).
- Submandibular gtand with no paihoiogic changes.

10. Right neck; level lIA:
- Two lymph nodes. negative for tumour (0/2).

11. Right neck; levels lit & IV:
- One lymph node. negative for tumour (Oil).

12. Surgical Waste:
- Skin with no pathologic changes (gross examination only).

 

Clinical Histom

oral ca

Gross Description ‘ .
1. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "right marginal mandibulectorny“, contains one piece of

right floor of mouth mucosal tissue measuring 4.0 cm SI x 3.0 cm Ml. x 5.5 cm AP. it includes a portion of upper posterior
mandible body with 1 tooth. There is a tumor arising on the mucosal surface. The tumor measures 1.5 cm Si x 1.5 cm
ML x 1.8 cm AP. The tumor is elevated. There is no involvement of bone by the tumor. The tumor is located at 0.7 cm
from the closest anterior margin. Remaining margins are as follows: Media! 1.0. posterior 1.8, lateral 1.8 cm respectively.
The resection margins are painted with silver nitrate. On sectioning, a small portion of gland measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm
are included in the submucosa anterior—medial part of the specimen. Three pieces of tumor and three pieces of mucosa
are taken by tissue bank. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

tA-tD mucosa with anterior margin, from lateral to medial

1E-1l mucosa with medial margin, from anterior to posterior

1J-1l‘vl mucosa with posterior margin, from medial to iaterai

tN-1P mucosa with lateral margin, from posterior to anterior

10 center of tumor with no margin

1R mandible bone, anterior margin, en face

13, 1T mandible bone, closest to mucosal tumor

1U mandible bone, posterior margin. on face

2. The specimen container iabeted with the patient's name and as "right anterior margin", contains one piece of mucosa
tissue measuring 2.7 cm SI x 2.5 cm ML x 1.0 cm AP. It includes a portion of mandible bone with one tooth. The .
posterior resection margin of the this piece of mandibular bone matches the anterior resection margin of the mandibular
bone of specimen 1. No tumor is identified in this specimen.

Representative sections are submitted as follows: . . . .
2A~20 mucosa submitted in total, aii sagittat sections, from lateral to medial, with anterior margin painted wrth india ink
20 anterior margin of bone, en face

 

 

 

 

- Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

3.The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "right medial margin", contains one pieceof mucosa
tissue measuring 2.0 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm received in fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on the entire specimen.

3A frozen section resubmitted.

4.The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "right anterior margin". contains one piece of mucosa
tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm received in fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on the entire specimen.

4A frozen section resubmitted.

S.The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right posterior margin", contains one piece of mucosa
tissue measuring 1.7 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm received in fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on the entire specimen.

5A frozen section resubmitted.

6.The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as ”right lateral margin". contains one piece of mucosa
tissue measuring 1.8 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm received in fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section
performed on the entire specimen.

6A frozen section resubmitted.

7.The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "right deep muscle margin", contains one piece of
muscle tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm received in fresh. This is examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen
section performed on the entire specimen.

7A frozen section resubmitted.

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and ”right neck level 1A“. it consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.2 cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 1.4 cm are identified. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

8A the largest lymph node bisected

SB, 80 multiple lymph nodes

9. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and “right neck level 18 and". It consists oi portion of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.80m. One submandibular gland measuring 4 x 3 x 1.8 cm is identified. Multiple lymph
nodes ranging from 1.0 to 1.8 cm are identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

9A the largest lymph node bisected

QB two lymph nodes

90 one representative section of submandibular gland

10. The Specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level 2A". it consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue
measuring 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.2 cm. 'l'wo lymph nodes ranging from 0.7 to 0.8 cm are identified. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

10A two lymph nodes

11. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level 3 & 4". it consists of portion of fibroadipose
tissue measuring 4 x 4 x 1.2 cm. One piece of muscle measuring 3 x 3 x 1 cm is identified. One lymph node measuring
0.8 cm and one possible lymph node measuring 0.2 cm are identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
11A the lymph node bisected

11B the possible lymph node

12.The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "surgical waste", contains one triangle shaped piece of
skin tissue measuring 3 x 3 x 1.8 cm. received in 10% buffered formalin. No abnormalities are noted grossly. No tissue IS
submitted.

 

 

— Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

Quick Section Diagnosis
3. Negative for carcinoma

4. High grade dysplasia; focally suspicious but not diagnostic of carcinoma
5. Negative for carcinoma
8. Negative for carcinoma
7. Negative for carcinoma

Addendum

 

Addendum Diagnosis
1. Right marginal mandibulectomy.
Bone negative for carcinoma.

2. Right anterior margin.
Bone negative for carcinoma.

 

 

 

 

