ICQDO-3

ﬂ! . V [0‘
"m=saga-3:233:53:“manned:(ted 6a 0mm ram) w), )
'"'"”'““)HH)E'l'l'l')‘.‘.'.)))'.'.))))l)))‘.'.)'.)))th"' ”a, 4;), 79/038519“
{llllMIMI!“IIIIIIIIIIIIHIIllllllllllllllllllmllllllllllllIll 5/72: @kza’g/ a, 4,9
1/ 6 [2

Diagnosis:
Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma,
conventional clear cell type

Sarcomatoid features: not identified

Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrman nuclear grade 3 (of 4)
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 6.8 cm by gross examination
Tumor focality: unifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or
microscopic):

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: negative

Gerota' s fascia: negative

Renal sinus: negative

Major veins (renal vein or segmental branches, IVC): negative

Ureter: negative
Venous (large vessel): negative
Lymphatic (small vessel): negative

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): not
applicable

Renal capsular margin (partial nephrectomy only): not applicable
Paranephric adipose tissue margin (partial nephrectomy only):
not

applicable

Gerota' s fascia (nephrectomy): negative

Renal vein (nephrectomy): negative

Ureter (nephrectomy): negative

Adrenal gland: not submitted
Lymph nodes: none identified

Other significant findings: incidental angiomyolipoma, 0.17 cm
(A9),

immunostain confirmatory and positive in scattered cells

AJCC Staging: ple pNx

This staging information is based on information available at
the time of this

report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional

information.

Comment:

Special stains support the diagnosis. The renal tumor shows
positive staining

for CD10 with negative staining for E—Cadherin, CD117, RCC and
CD15 consistent

with renal cell carcinoma, conventional clear cell type.
Appropriate controls

are performed.

Clinical History:
year—old female with a right renal mass.

Gross Description:
Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Right radical nephrectomy

Side of specimen: Right

Size and weight of specimen: The kidney weighs 260 grams and
measures 12.5 x

8.0 x 6.0 cm

Orientation: The external surface of the kidney and perinephric
fat is inked blue.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Absent

Tumor site: The tumor is within the lower pole of the kidney
and involves both the renal cortex and medulla.

Tumor description: The tumor is a fairly well—circumscribed mass
with

both solid and small cystic components, containing serous fluid.
The majority

of the mass consists of a tan/white solid component with one
focal area of

hemorrhage identified.

Tumor size: 6.8 x 5.4 x 4.3 cm.

Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent
Confinement/non—confinement to the kidney: The mass is confined
to the

kidney and appears to have an intact renal capsule.

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Does not involve

Gerota' s fascia: Does not involve

Renal vein: Tumor grossly does not involve

Ureter: Tumor grossly does not involve

Renal Sinus: The tumor is grossly adjacent to the renal sinus
focally.

Pelvicaliceal: The tumor focally abuts the renal pelvis.
Adrenal: N/A

Other organs: N/A

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative, tumor is at least 0.3 cm
away.

Renal vein: Negative, mass is 3.3 cm away from margin.

Renal artery: Negative, tumor is 3.5 cm away from margin.
Ureter: Negative. The mass is 1.3 cm away from margin.
Description of kidney away from tumor: The remainder of the
kidney is

tan/pink with distinct cortical and medullary areas. No other

masses or lesions
are identified.

Hilar lymph nodes: See block summary.
Other significant findings: None identified

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal
are given to
tissue procurement.

Digital picture: No

Block Summary:

A1 — Ureter, vein and artery margins

A2—A3 — Renal sinus with adjacent tumor

A4—A5 — Tumor with renal pelvis

A6-A7 - Tumor with closest blue ink

A8 — Tumor with normal parenchyma

A9 - Normal kidney

A10 — Additional section of tumor and urothelium
A11 — Two lymph node candidates

  
  
   

titan.-

 

)Iaznmis Dish eganq
him an Tumor Sit: DMcrepanq
‘\A .

49W

