Accession Number: Report Sta us:

Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type: Kidne
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

 

artial or total resection

  
 
 
 

 

CASE:

PATIEN;, ' - .rh
— .TCGA—cz-ﬁdb'z

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS;

SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT KIDNEY":
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, clear cell t e with focal sarcomatoid

areas, Fuhrman nuclear grade III/IV (4.5 cm).

The tumor abuts but not does not extend through the renal capsule.
The tumor shows extensive necrosis.

No lymphovascular invasion is seen.

The ureter, renal artery, and renal vein resection margins are

negative for tumor.
The non neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the

findings will be reported in an addendum.

The AJCC Cl ' 'tion): le Nx Ml (including prior specimen,
reviewed at .

| CLINICAL DATA:
History: None given.
Operation: None given.
Operative Findings: None given.
Clinical Diagnosis: None given.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
All. Right kidney to frozen FS room for per. and tumor bank.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient's name, unit number,

and "#1. Rt kidney", and consists of a right radical nephrectomy specimen
(109.5—gram; 21.5 x 10.0.x 4.5 cm), to include: right kidney (9.0 x 7.5 x 4.2 '
cm), Gerota's fascia (10.5 x 4.5 x 0.2 cm), renal vein (0.8 cm in length x 0.8
cm in diameter), three renal arteries (ranging from 1.0 to 1.6 cm in length x
0.3 up to 0.7 cm in diameter), and ureter (5.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in
diameter). Within the upper pole, there is a golden yellow/red, hemorrhagic,
encapsulated lobulated mass (4.5 x 4,3 x 3.6 cm), located 5.8 cm from the renal
vein, 3.8 cm from the nearest renal artery, 9.0 cm from the ureteral margin,
which grossly abuts the renal capsule but does not extend into the perinephric
fat (inked black). Representative sections of the mass are submitted to
cytogenetics, tissue bank, and for quick fix. Representative normal cortex is
held for electron microscopy, immunofluorescence and tissue bank. The
medullary pyramids are focally pale, however, the corticomedullary junction is
distinct. There is moderate to severe atherosclerotic Change of the renal
arteries with up to 95% stenosis of the most inferior artery. The pelvis is
grossly unremarkable. No lymph nodes are identified within the attached

perinephric fat. Photographs are taken.

Micro A2: "Tl” (quick fix), 3 frags,
Micro A3: “T2" (quick fix), 2 frags,

Micro A4 and A5: Renal mass abutting capsule, 2 frags,
Micro A6: Renal mass adjacent to medullary pyramid, 1 frag,
Micro A7: Renal calyx/pelvis and corticomedullary junction, 1 frag,-

_ _ Page: 1 c

Micro A1: Renal vein, ureter, and renal irtery margin (en face), 5 fragra-

 

 

 

a:urauxssxoulwmrneamnumeawmmamrmxm-n- man-mu: xM:-|:|m'-E

Report Status: Final

{We EWIW warm: um.mmm£uw:<

 

Accession Number:
Type: '

W— .CGA—CZ-5462

    
  
   

KARYOTYPE: Not obtained
METAPHASES COUNTED: 0 ANALYZED: 0 SCORED: O BANDING:
INTERPRETATION:

No metaphases were available from this specimen, therefore the cytogenetic
analysis could not be performed.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
? Renal cell carcinoma

 

 

 

 

— “an". I n

 

