 

Material examined:

Right lower lobe

Clinical diagnosis and question

Suspected BC of the right lower Eobe segment 8, status post epiglottis carcinoma.

REPORT ON FINDINGS

Macroscopy

l.) Peribronchial iower lobe bronchus: 0.3 cm pale section.

2.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed right lower lobe measuring 16 x 12 cm at the base and up to 18.5 cm in length, central
bronchus resection line located at the bifurcation of B6. Staple suture lines measuring 4.5 and 3.5 cm,
respectively, run from the hilus to the cranial and the ventrocaudal regions. At the hilus two mobile lesioned
grayish-black nodes, 0.6 and 0.8 cm in size. Moderately solid pale brownish-white tumor max. 3.8 cm in size
with unclear demarcation and patchy blackish pigmentation located in the central region at the bifurcation of
B8. Narrowing of B8 and its proximal subsegmental branches. Involvement of some blackish pigmented nodes
up to 1.2 cm in size by the tumor, one of these at the hilus. Tumor distance from hilar resection surface at least
0.1 cm, extends right up to the peripheral pleura. Sleeve-like tumor spread along smaller bronchial branches.
Peripheral bronchi in segment 8 dilated and ﬁlled with thick mucus. Parenchyma in tumor environment
diffusely indurated in places and of brownish-yellow color. Rest of parenchyma, pleura and prepared bronchial
pathways inconspicuous.

1.) Lobar LN (Item 12) middle lobe: 1.2 cm lesioned grayish-black node or node part.

2.) Lobar LN (Item 12) middle lobe: 1.3 cm iesioned grayish-black node or node part.

3.) Hilar LN (Item 10) right: 2.5 cm lesioned grayish-black node.

4.) Subcarinal LN (Item 7): two lesioncd grayish-black nodes with some surrounding tissue, 0.6 and 3 cm in
size, the larger one strand-shaped.

Examined:

1.) Rapid section residual material,

2.) Tumor with rest of parenchyma, with subsegmental branches of 88 and invoived nodes, tumor margin area with
sieeve~like spread, hilar resection surface (color marking), 2 sections with peripheral pleura + hilar nodes, centrai

bronchus resection line + resection margins vessels, mobile hilar nodes,

3.) Rapid section remains + residual material,
4.} — 6.) all material (in 5. preparation, in 6. iargest node multE-segmented), 12 blocks, partly Etastica van Gieson, PAS,

and diastase-PAS.

Microscopy
1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation —): mainly vessel, marginal very smait LN section without

tumor.

3.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation —): LN with no carcinoma.

Description of histoiogical and cytological findings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses
Bronchopulmonary, histologically large-cell solid carcinoma without mucin formation extending from central to
peripheral areas in the region of the mediastinal pleura. Tumor classification according to this picture pT2 le V1 R0,

stage IlB. C343 M8012/3 or 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses

Tumor necrosis. Marked, largely interstitial chronic and predominantly iymphofollicular inﬂammation in the
area of the tumor margin with atypical adenomatous alveolar hyperplasia. Chronic sclerotic peribronchitis of
downstream subsegmental bronchi and active chronic peripheral bronchitis in SS. Tumor—free lymph nodes with
moderate anthracotic pigment deposit and reactive follicular hyperplasia.

Remark/addendum .
The carcinoma lies in 58; it probably developed centrally with partial inﬁltration and destruction of 88. Medium-sized

pulmonary arteries are infiltrated by the tumor, focally destroyed and obliterated; there is also a focal tumor infiltration
of the outer wall of the main branch of the pulmonary artery to the lower lobe. The resection margins of the large
pulmonary vessels and the bronchus resection line are tumor-free. The lymph node metastases lie in the region of the
primary tumor and the hiiar region. Since histological examination occasionally shows vaguely suggestive differentiation
or structural features of squamous cell carcinoma, it could also be an undifferentiated squamous cell carcinoma
(immunohistochemical cytokeratin analysis follows).

Material examined:
Right lower lobe

1. Additional report

lmmunohistochemical studies

The marker profile established (positive for CK? and to some extent high molecular weight keratins, negative for TIT—1)
is consistent with (undifferentiated) squamous cell carcinoma.

 

