UUID:557E3655-9srs;4s49-Aoss-esosstoFAA42
mommy TCGA-DA-ASFZ-OGA-PR Rﬁldmalilited

. - mmummmmnmmmimimmmuumm
PAW" ""Y m "mum H mm ll lllllllilllllllll lllllllllllll II in Ill
summit PATHOLOGY REM m lllllllllllllllllllllIIHIHIIHI llllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Procedures/Addenda Attached

Patient: . Accession it.

MR it. Taken:

DOB/Age/Sex. Aae' = M Accessioned:
YNHH VISIt #: Adm-Disc" Date ,. " ’

Submitting Physician: Reported:

Clinical History and Impression:
Metastatic melanoma. left upper back
0 year old male

Check for BRAF mutation

 

Speclman(s) Received:
MELANOMA LEFT UPPER BACK

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
SKIN AND SOFT TISSUE. LEFT UPPER BACK. EXCISION:
- MALIGNANT MELANOMA (SEE NOTE)
NOTE: The lesion is identiﬁed in the subcutaneous tissue and deep dermis. An
intraepidermal component is not seen. This pattern is compatible with metastatic or

recurrent melanoma. As requested. the specimen was submitted for BRAF mutation testing,
which will be reported separately.

Pathologist:
' Report Eiectmnicaiiy Signed Out ‘

 

This , ‘ ' lhatthar ‘ _ has , ‘ the gross and/or ' , material and has
based the dis nosla on that evaluation.

Gross Description: , 7 . 7 _ .

Received fresh iabe with the patient's name and “melanoma. leit upper back. stitch at 12 o'clock. orange dye marks
wedge x 2. sent to Dr. is an irregularly shaped portion of tan-pink hair-bearing slrln which measures 9.8 x 9.5 cm
and is excised to a maximum depth at 2.7 cm. The specimen is oriented via a single suture designated as 12 o'clock as
per the container and requisition sheet. There are two previously made, probable surgical deieas located at 3 o'clock and
8 o'clock. Also present are two superﬁcial defects over-inked with orange dye representing areas sent to Dnﬁor
research. The surgical detects are reapproximated and the deep margin is inked as follows: from 12 o‘clock to 3 o'clock to
8 o'clock is blue. from 6 o'clock to 9 o‘clock to 12 o'clock is black. The specimen is serially sectioned from 12 o'clock to 8
o'clock to reveal 6 dlstina tan-black to tan-brow, well-defined tabulated lesions ranging in site from 3.4 cm to 0.4 cm in
greatest dimension. One oi these lesions is raised and involves the surface oi the skin. Gross photographs at the
specimen are taken. Representative sections are submitted in live cassettes.

m

leis-423
W M5 9710/5
5th? 541‘ airs-M. beck (ll/ﬁé

,zu '
y'I/i3/'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*1 WWW 41!;

Summary of Tissue submitted for Microscopic Examination Blodt Detail
! E . I E . .
Part 1] MELANOMA LEFT UPPER BACK 5 [Undes] (5) (No Description)

Procedures/Addenda

MOLECULAR DIAENOSIIOTESI§ . Pathologist: _._..

Status: Signed Out to. f * Ordered: Reported
L " .. i?!" .
93,4 Jet“! I
Findin ' " f

PCR-SSCP analysis of BRAF gene was performed on“
BRAF gene V600E mutation was iS NOT identified.

Analytic speciﬁc reagent (ASR) is used. Thle test was , and its ,, ‘ .i ‘ by
The test has not been cleared or approved by the us. Food and Drug Administration. This test is
used for nical purposes. it should not be . fo ' , is certified under the Clinical

as or r . ll
Laboratory improvement Amendments of l9” (CLiA-OB) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

interpretation

The BRAF gene encodes a protein that is a component of the RAS/MAPK signaling
pathway involving the control of cell proliferation. differentiation, and apoptosis. This gene
may be mutated in many types of cancer, particularly thyroid cancer. BRAF mutation
(V600E) occurs in 40-60% of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC). It has been shown that such
mutations are associated with a more aggressive phenotype of PTC. BRAF mutation testing
of FNA specimens provides a powerful tool to preoperatively identify PTC patients at higher
risk for extensive disease (extrathyroidal extension and lymph node metastases). Journal of
Clinical Oncology 272977-2982, 2009.

BRAF V6005 mutation is not detected in the specimen tested.

Teetlnawaeosriormadtwih-m 3

 

_ -m Page 2 d 2
END OF REPORT

