 

 

  

Patient Name: Accession #:

new”: —

DOB: Date of Receipt:

Gender: — Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Accountit:

Pallertt Address: Billing Type: _
— - Additional Copy to: TCGA BP 5201

Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8i. History:
Patient with metastatic R00 to lungs.
W

Specimens Submitted:

1: Kidney, left, total nephrectom
2: Lymph nodes. suprahilar. left. an adrenal gland, excisior.)

3: Lymph nodes, pre-aortic, excision
4: SP: Para~aortic lymph nodes

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Kidney, left, total nephrectomy-

   

Tumor Type:
Renai cell carcinoma — Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nucleam_—_'7‘~
Nuciear grade lVllV‘

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 9.5 cm.
._.———-—_.__.___/——"_

Local Invasion (for renai cortical types): _,
Extends through renal capsule but conﬁned within Geroia‘s fascia a

Renal Vein invasion:
Tumor is identiﬁed in muscular vessels in the region of the renal sinusihilum

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremarkable

Adrenal Gland:
involved by tumor (see Part 2)

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

taglng for renal cell carcinomaloncocytoma:
pTSb Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s} or vena cava below the diaphragm

W'— .

 

mph nodes, suprahiiar, left. and adrenal gland, excision -
nvol adren I land.

No lymph nodes identiﬁed.

 

Page i of 4

     

 

t"‘~“u’ ’3“"""w — ——-

 

8. Lymph nodes, pro-aortic, exclaim-

Lymph Nodes:
Not involved in/ -
Number of nodes exami d:3

4. SP: Para-aortic lymph nodes -:

Lymph Nodes: ‘
Not involved E/
Number of nodes examin :1

 

 

IATTESF THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS iS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAU. AND THAT I HAVE

nevrewso nus APPROVED rnrs naponr.
*** Report Electronically gigne! Out I“ -

"4'" m

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description:
—

1.) The specimen is received fresh for consultation labeled "Leit kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal
vessels and perinephric lat weighing 454 g in totai. The kidney measures 11 x 9 x 5.5 cm. The attached ureter measures 2.5 cm
in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. The attached renai vein measures 1.1 cm in length and 1.5 cm in diameter. There are two renal
arteries which are up to 95 to 100% stenotlc. The remaining renal vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An
adrenal gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a 9.5 x 6.1 x 6.5 cm. circumscribed. spongy to ﬁrm.
white to golden yellow, focaliy ﬁbrotic and hemorrhagic mass which protrudes into the renal vein 1.7 cm away from the renal vein
margin and abuts the renal capsule but does not appear to go through or into the perirenal tat. Sections through the remainder of
the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma. with a well-deﬁned oortico-medullary junction containing a 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm cyst.
The cortex measures 1.0 cm and the calyces appear normai. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephrtc fat. Representative
sections are submitted for frozen consultation, TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

FSC —- frozen section control

UVM -. ureteral and vessei margins

T-- tumor

THF-- tumor with hiiar fat

TSF -- tumor with sinus lat

TK -~ tumor with adjacent kidney

RP ~~ renal pelvis representative sections
K -- representative sections kidney

2). The specimen is received fresh labeled "left suprahilar lymph nodes and adrenal gland" and consists of a 5.5 x 1.8 x 1.2 cm
intact adrenai gland weighing 5.5 g. with attached fibroiatty adipose tissue measuring 8.0 x 3.4 x 1.0 cm. Within the fat is a 2.8 x
2.5 x 2.5 our ﬁrm purple tan lymph node. with three additional small possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 cm up to 0.4 cm In

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

greatest dimension. The largest lymph node is sectioned to reveal a variegated yellow-gray hemorrhagic cut surface with a
central gelatinous component. The adrenal gland is sectioned to reveal a grossly unremarkable orange cortical surface with a
tan-white homogeneous meduliary cut surface. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:

A—adrenal gland

LLN-largest lymph node
LN-addillonal possible lymph nodes

3}.The specimen is received in formalin, iabeled "pro-aortic iymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.8 to 3.? cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN —— lymph nodes
SLN-- serially sectioned lymph node

4).The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "paraaortlc lymph nodes" and consists of a pink tan ﬁrm lymph node measuring
1.3 cm In greatest dimension. The lymph node is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN -— lymph node

Summagy of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney. left. total nephrectomy -

Block Sect. Site PCs
FSC
K
RP
T
THF
TK
TSF
UVM

AMNmmMM—A
dMNmeMHL

Part 2: Lymph nodes, suprahllar, left, and adrenal gland, excision-

Biock Sect. Site PCs
1 a 1
2 lin 2
1 In 1

Part 3: Lymph nodes, pro-aortic, excision-

Block Sect. Site P08
1 in 1
3 sin 3

Part 4: SP: Para-aortic lymph nodes-

Block Sect. Site P03
1 In 1

Intrgopcrativc Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the inlraoperative

consultation.

 

Page 3 of 4

 

 

h—

 

1. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: SP: LEFT KlDNEY -: RENAL CORTJCAL NEOPLASM
(NON-UROTHELiAL).
PERMANENT DIAGNO : SAME

 

 

Page 4 of 4 END OF REPORT

 

