 

 

' . Refarrinq ph ician: uum: 426F200F- C2A1- -4aFc- Aee1- -aaa737c;se11cc
Patient. ys TCGA- -HZ- A77o- o1A- PR

 

 

DOB: Agei Gender:F

Rem: Home? Provider Group :
Date of Service: Date Received: Case #:-

_ Date Reported:

A copy of this report will be printed for: _

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - F.) HEAD OF PANCREAS, DISTAL STOMACH, DUODENUM, GALLBLADDER,
APPENDIX, PANCREATICODUODENECTOMY (WHIPPLE PROCEDURE,
PARTIAL PANCREATECTOMY), CHOLECYSTECTOMY, APPENDECTOMY:

~ INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENHATED DUCTAL ADENOCARCINOMA.
~ 2.8 cm in maximum dimension.
- Confined to the pancreas.
- MARGINS: NEGATIVE FOR INVASIVE CARCINOMA.
- Mild dysplasia is present at the common bile duct margin.
- PERINEURAL INVASION: PRESENT.
- ”MPH-VASCULAR INVASION: PRESENT.
- FOUR OF TWENTY-SIX LYMPH NODES, POSITIVE FOR METASTASIS (4(26).
- PANCREATIC INTRAEPITHELIAL NEOPLASIA, GRADE3 (PanIN-a).
- ACUTE AND CHRONIC PANCREATITIS.
.. CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS.
- UNREMARKABLE VERMIFORM APPENDIX.
- SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Ductal adonocarcinoma, moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor: pTZ (2.8 cm in greatest dimension. limited to the pancreas).
Regional lymph nodes: pN‘I (four of twenty-six lymph nodes, positive for

metastasis). m,“ ,
Distant metastasis: Not applicable. . 3
Lymphovascular invasion: Present. , M 350° l 3
Pathologic stage: IIB.
Margins: R0. 54k: m JLUUL 9-350
Exocrine Pancreas Tumor Staging Information 911) 7”7/’3
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 71h Ed, and CAP protocol, June 2012)
Case #2 Page 1

Printed : This report continues... (FINAL)

- Page 1/5 .99 1

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

 

Case #:
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Specimen: Head of pancreas. distal stomach.
duodenum. common bile duct,
gallbladder. appendix.

Procedure: Whipple procedure (partial
pencreateciomy). cholecystectomy,
appendectomy.

Tumor site: Head of pancreas.

Tumor size: 2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

Histologic type: Ductai adenocarcinoma.

Histologicgrade: Moderately differentiated, (62).

Microscopic tumor extension: Limited to the pancreas.

Margins: Negative for invasive carcinoma.

Treatment effect: Not applicable.

Lymph-vascular invasion: Present.

Perineural invasion: Present.

Lymph nodes: Four of twenty-six lymph nodes,
positive for metastasis (4126).

Pathologic Staging:

Primary tumor pT2 (2.8 cm in greatest dimension.

Regional lymph nodes
Distant metastasis
Pathologic stage

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Source of Specimen:
A. Appendix
B. Gallbladder

Case #‘
Printed:

- Page 2/5

limited to the pancreas).

pN’l (4/26 positive for metastasis).
Not applicable.

IIB.

PanlN-3.
Acute and chronic pancreatitis.
Islet cell hyperplasia.

Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)

Patient Name ~.

Page 2

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case it

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

C. Lymph node;Portal
D. Whipple

E. Final bile duct margin
F. Bile duct new margin

Clinical HistoglOperative Dx:

Pancreatic cancer.

W

C. Portal lymph node: Negative for metastasis:

D. Whipple procedure: Pancreatic margin negative.

E. (ESE) Final bile duct margin: Atypia suspicious for dyspiasia.

F. (FSF} New bile duct margin: Low grade dyspiasia. —

The intracWratlve inteiretatioMs) waslwere performed and rendered at —
gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled appendixend is received in formalin. It consists of a very slightly curved
vermiform appendix which is 4.8 cm in length and has a maximum diameter of 0.6 cm. The semsal
surface is tan smooth and shiny. The appendiceal wall is intact. The mesoappendlx is unremarkable.
Representative sections are submitted in cassette A1 (proximal margin inked). -

B. The specimen is labeled gallbladder and is received in formalin. It consists of a deflated but intact
gallbladder which is 11 cm in length and up to 3.8 cm in diameter. The free serosal surface is red-violet

and smooth. The cystic duct is patent and there are two ﬁrm pale tan cystic duct nodes which are up to 0.6
cm in maximum dimension. The gallbladder wall is generally 0.5 cm in thickness. The mucosa varies from
yellow-tan to pale red and is ﬁnally granular throughout. There is partial aspiration of the gallbladder neck

as well as an area of septation at the fundus. No calculi are present. There are no palpable nodules within
the gastric wall. Representative sections re submitted. Section summary: 31) cystic duct margin, cystic duct
nodes. gallbladder neck, 82) gallbladder body and fondue.-

C. The specimen is labeled portal lymph node and consists of a 2 x 1.9 x 0.8 cm fragment of yellow-tan to
pale red tissue. On sectioning there is a single lymph node measuring approximatelyt .3 cm in maximum
dimension. The node is sectioned and touch imprints are obtained. The specimen is entirely submitted In

cassette Ct. -

D. The specimen is labeled Whipple procedure and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of a composite
resection of tissue which includes a 5 x 3 x 1.8 cm wedge resection of distal gastric tissue including pylorus
and a 27 cm segment of duodenum. There is a ﬁrm portion of pancreatic head which measures 6.3 x 4.7 x
5 cm. The anterior-superior surface of the pancreas is inked blue, the anterior-inferior surface is inked
green, and the posterior surface is inked black.

The free serosal surface of the gastric resection is pate red and smooth. There is a moderate amount of

Case iii: Page 3
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

_ P39835- _

’age 3

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

 

Case #2

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

adherent perigastn‘c adipose tissue along what appears to be the greater curvature. The free serosal
surface of the distal duodenum is tan with some slight surgical disruption but there are no areas of
perforation. The specimen is opened to reveal the gastric mucosa is fiat. tan to pale red, slightly granular.
There is some slight irregularity of the mucosa at the pylorus but no true ulceration. The circumference at
the proximal duodenum is 6 cm. The ampuiia is located 10 cm distal to the pylorus (11.5 cm from

proximal margin and 17 cm from the distal margin). A wire stent protrudes from the ampulla. Sectioning of
the pancreas along the common bile duct reveals gritty tan~white. ﬁrm. poorly delineated neoplastic tissue
in the head of the pancreas measuring 2.8 cm in maximum dimension. This neoplastic process grossly
appears to be 1.8 cm from the ampulla. The pancreatic resection margin and the bile duct are marked

with sutures. Sectioning reveals that the neoplasm is grossly 1.3 cm from the pancreatic resection margin.
The neoplasm is in close proximity to the anterior—superior surface as well as the anterior-interior surface. It
is grossly 0.3 cm from the closest posterior pancreatic surface. Further sectioning of the pancreas reveals a
prominent diverticulum-like out-pouching of the duodenum 2 cm proximal to the ampulla. This

diverticuiar out pouching grossly extends imp the head of the pancreas but does not appear to have
neoplastic involvement. The pancreastissue away from the neoplasm is ﬁrm and yellowish. There are

scattered peripancreatio nodes which are up to 2.5 cm. The peripancreatic tissue is dissected for further
nodes.

Just distal to the ampulla. the circumference of the duodenum is 7 cm and at the distal duodenal margin
circumference is 5.5 cm. The duodenal mucosa is yellow-tan with neutral appearing muoosal folds and no
palpable areas of nodularity are present within the duodenal wail. There is very little duodenal adipose
tissue present. The pancreatic resection margin is removed as a thin shave and submitted for frozen
section as F801.

Section summary:

01) pancreatic resection margin from frozen section.

02) proximal gastric resection margin,

03) representative distal gastric tissue,

04) sections of pylorus.

05-06) sections of ampulla (stent dissected free).

07-08) diverticulum-like structure of duodenum extending into head of pancreas,
09-012) anterior superior pancreas in vicinity of tumor,

0134315) anterior inferior pancreas in vicinity of neoplasm

016-018) posterior pancreas with closest approach of neoplasm,
019-020) additional sections of distal common bile duct and neoplasm.
021) additional sections of body of pancreas adjacent to pancreatic resection margin,
022) distal duodenal margin,

023) possible nodes from perigastric adipose tissue,

024) one larger pertpancreatic node, bivalved, two smailer nodes intact,
025) one large peripancreatic node, bivalved.

028) single prominent peripancreationcde, serially sectioned.

027) larger peripancreatic node, bivalved,

028) large peripancreatic node. bivalved,

029) four possible peripancreatic nodes. intact,

030) single peripancreatic node, bivatved,

Case #: Page 4
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

- Page 415 1 3age 4

 

 

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case 1%:

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

031) four smaller possible peripancreatic nodes. -

E. The specimen is labeled ﬁnal bile duct margin and is received without ﬁxative. it consists of a roughly
Cylindrical portion of ten to yellow-green tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 1 cm. A suture marks the true margin.
The margin is removed as a thin shave and submitted for frozen section as FSE1. The tissue remaining
from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette E1. -

F. The specimen is labeled new bile duct margin and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of a
cylindricat portion of pale green tissue measuring 3.5 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. A suture marks the true margin. The
true margin is removed as a thin shave and submitted for frozen section as FSFt. The tissue remaining
from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette F1.

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Two lymph nodes are present, and are negative for metastatic carcinoma.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections demonstrate a single lymph node, negative for metastasis.

D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Venous invasion is present. A totai oftwenty—three lymph nodes are present, four of which are
positive tor metastatic carcinoma.

E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Histologic sedions demonstrate a segment of common bile duct, with miid to moderate
dyspiasia. invasive carcinoma is not identiﬁed.

F. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Histologic sections demonstrate a segment of common bile duct, with mild dysplasia. invasive
carcinoma is not identiﬁed.

 

Case # " Page 5
Printed: END OF REPORT (FINAL)

' - Page 5/5 go 5

 

 

