 

 

UUID: 4CDGBDB7- 9629- 41C6- 851R4- 7661E3D33A6eSd
TCGA- A1- ADSI- OlA-P

IIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIlIIIIIIII “d
lllllllllllllllllll IIIIIII llllllllllIIIIIIl IIHIIIIIIIIIII
IlllllIIlIlllllIIlI III II |||l|||llIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

/ Cb — a , 3
cmm 14»th M (w; 1?.6’00/3

51'ﬁwé4mf N05 C50 ‘7 {El/34"

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis.

A. Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy. No tumor identiﬁed in one lymph
node (0/1).

B. Non- sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: One lymph node positive for
metastatic carcinoma (1/1).

C. Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilia, biopsy: No tumor identified in one lymph
node (Ci/1).

D. Non—sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, dissection: No tumor identified in one
lymph node (0/1).

E. Non- sentinel lymph node #3, right axilla, dissection: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor
or lymph node tissue seen on level sections.

 

Page 1 MS

 

 

Surgical Pathology — Workinghgraft

Right breast, lumpectomy:

Invasive ductal carcinoma, SBR grade II, 2.6 cm; see comment.
Lymphovascular invasion present.

Usual ductal hyperplasia.

G. Lymph nodes, right axillary contents, dissection: No tumor identified in nineteen
lymph nodes (0/19).
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
— Laterality: Right.
— Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma NOS.
— Invasive tumor size: 2.6 cm maximum diameter (tumor spans slices 2-8, best seen in slides F4, F6,
F8, F10, F12, F13, and F15).
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom—Richardson): II.
Nuclear grade: 2, 2 points.
Mitotic count: 3 mitotic ﬁgures] 10 HPF, 1 point.
T ubuie/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation in less than 10%, 3 points.
Total points and overall grade = 6 points = grade 2.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Present (slide F15).
- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
~ Deep margin: Negative; tumor is within less than 0.1 cm on slide F6 (black ink).
— Medial margin: Negative.
- Lateral margin: Negative.
~ Anterior/superior margin: Negative; tumor is within less than 0.1 cm on slide F10 (blue ink).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; tumor is within 1 cm on slide F8 (green ink).

— Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: None identiﬁed.
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): None identified.
- Lymph node status:
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 1.
- Total number sampled: 23.
— Diameter of largest metastasis: 3 mm.
— Extranodal extension: Absent.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N1MX.

- Nontumorous breast tissue: Usual ductal hyperplasia.
- Nipple: Unremarkable.
- Skin/dermis: Unremarkable.

 

- Additional comments: ER, PR, and HER-Z/neu stains have been ordered and will be reported in an
addendum.
Intraoperatlve Consult Diagnosis

F51 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: One lymph node with no evidence of metastatic
carcinoma. (Dr. .

F52 (Bl Non-sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma. (Dr.

F53 (C) Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: One lymph node with no evidence of metastatic
carcinoma. (Dru

Clinical History

The patient is a ‘ year-old woman who undergoes a right breast lumpectomy with axillary lymph
node dissection.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and unit number.

 

Page 2 ol'8

Surgical Pathology - Working Draft

Part A, labeled " , , consists of a single soft, irregular, red~tan
candidate lymph node measuring 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1.

 

Part B, labeled "non-sentinel lymph node #2 right axilla," consists of a single soft, irregular, red-tan
candidate lymph node measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette Bl.

Part C, labeled ‘ _ ‘ consists of a single soft,
irregular piece of red-yellow, fatty tissue measuring 1.5 x 1 x 0.4 cm. Fatty tissue is trimmed away,
and a single candidate lymph node is found. The candidate lymph node is entirely submitted for
frozen section diagnosis 3, and subsequently submitted in cassette C1. The remaining unused fatty
tissue is entirely submitted in cassette C2.

Part 0, received in formalin and labeled , consists of one soft and firm,
tan—yellow, fatty tissue fragment measuring 1.7 x 1 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in
cassette Dl.

Part E, received in formalin and labeled _ , , consists of one soft and firm,
tan-yellow, fatty tissue fragment measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in
cassette E1.

Part F is received in formalin and additionally labeled _ , _ It consists of a 9-gm
breast lumpectomy specimen, measuring 1.5 cm from anterior to posterior, 5 cm from superior to
inferior, and 3.5 cm from lateral to medial. There is a short stitch designated as superior and a long
stitch designated as lateral. The specimen is inked as follows: anterior superior blue, anterior inferior
green, and posterior black. Prior to receipt by me (Or. the posterior portion of the
breast has been incised and tissue removed for tissue banking. The specimen is serially sectioned,
from medial to lateral, into eight slices and reveals a well-circumscribed, tan, firm nodule (1.5 x 1 x
0.9 cm) in slices 3 through 6. The tumor nodule is located approximately 1 cm from both the lateral—
and medial-most margins, 0.7 cm from the superior margin, and 1.3 cm from the inferior margin. The
closest approach to a margin is in slice 6, where it appears to abut the anterior-mid portion of the

specimen (<1 mm grossly from the blue/green—inked margin). The specimen is entirely submitted as
follows:

Cassette F1: Medial-most margin.

Cassette F2: Slice 2, superior.

Cassette F3: Slice 2, inferior.

Cassette F4: Slice 3, superior (and nodule).
Cassette F5: Slice 3, inferior.

Cassette F6: Slice 4, superior (and nodule).
Cassette F7: Slice 4, inferior.

Cassette F8: Slice 5, superior (and nodule).
Cassette F9: Slice 5, inferior.

Cassette F10: Slice 6, superior (and nodule).
Cassette F11: Slice 5, inferior.

Cassette F12: Slice 7, superior.

Cassette F13: Slice 7, inferior.

Cassettes F14-F15: Lateral-most margin.

Part (5, received in formalin and labeled consists of multiple soft and firm,
brown-tan and yellow tissue fragments measuring 7 x 6.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is
trimmed and extensively searched for lymph nodes. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and
submitted intact in cassettes Gl-GS.

Signed:

Fee Codes:

 

Pane 3 ofii

 

 

Surgical Pathology - Working Draft

Addenda

Addendum. Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: By:
Date Reported:

Addendum Comment
An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed on block F6.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is strong nuclear staining in ~50% of tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There is weak to moderate nuclear staining in ~15%
of tumor cells.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein over-expression.

An immunohlstochemical assay was performed on block F6 using the C811 monoclonal antibody to
HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered Indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of lmmunohlstochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

The lmmnnnnnrnvlrlase staln(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Electronically signed out on

 

Other Specimens

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioncd
Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
mums
Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Benign breast elements (see comment).

 

Paced ni‘R

 

 

Surgical Pathology - «VorkiﬁDi-aft

._____-———_

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioncd
Signed Out:

a.

Specimcn(s) Received: Vaginai/Cervical/Endocervicai, Thin Prep imaged

Eyewitness
Vaginal/Cervicai/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged

 

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Atrophic changes

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation.
Transformation zone components are present.

1

 

_Specimcn Class: 5 Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Noodle Aspiration

Final Diagnosis

Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Adenocarcinoma, see note.

Procedure/Addenda for _
ADDENDUM. Date of Addendum.:

Addendum Comment
An lmmunohistochemicai test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HEr—Z-neu was
performed on the material submitted for cell block.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive . There is strong nuclear staining in greater than 90% of
tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is Negative. There is no nuclear staining in 100% of tumor cells.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein
over-expression on a scant specimen. tin ' m n xci

slammed.

An immunohistochemicai assay was performed on the cell button using the C811 monoclonal antibody
to HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of a or 1 are considered negat/ve for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FiSH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

 

Pane. § nfR

 

 

Surgical Pathology - Working Draft

 

 

the immunonl’rhwdntzé <ramiqi renorted above were developer! and their performance leraLLeiislth detannlned by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration.
me l—DA has determined that Such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not be regarded as lnvestigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

 

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Ccrvical/Endocervical, Direct

Final Diag110§l§
Cervical / Endocervical, Direct

 

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Atrophic changes

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation; atrophic pattern with no identiﬁable
endocervical/ transformation zone component.
Cellular distortion secondary to airdrying artifact.
Cellular distortion secondary to mechanical artifact.

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: 2:00 Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration, B: 5:00 Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration

Final Diagnosis
A. Right Breast, 2:00 o'clock, Fine Needle Aspiration: Lacatation changes; see comment.

B. Right Breast, 5:00 o‘clock, Fine Needle Aspiration: Lacatation changes; see comment.

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Right breast core biopsy
Final Diagnosis
Right breast, needle core biopsy: Breast tissue with gestational lobular change and
suppurative inﬂammation; no in situ or invasive carcinoma seen. See comment.

 

 

pecimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:

Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration

Final Diagnosis

Right Breast. 2:00 o'clock, Fine Needle Aspiration: Atypical, see note.

 

Page 6 of 8

Slltchal Pathology - I WorkingQraft

 

_Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioncd:
Signed Out:

 

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal/Cei’vical/Endocervical, Thin Prep
51!!“ Diagnosis
Vaginal / Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation.
Transformation zone components are present.

 

-. Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessionei
Signed Out
Specimen(s) Received: Uterine contents
Final Diagnosis
Uterine contents, evacuation: Decidua with chorionic villi.

 

Specimen Class: . Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:

 

Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
Final Diagnosis
Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Lipoma; see comment.

 

___Speeimcn Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned-
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Direct

Final Diagnosis
Vaginal, Direct

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation.

 

 

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out . Accessioned:
Signed Out: ‘
Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal/Cervical/Endoeervical, Direct

i % Final Diagnosis

 

R:

Vaginal / Cervical / Endocervical, Direct
CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.

 

Pace 7 of ii

Surgical Pathology - Worki_ng Draft

(,4 SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
«% Satisfactory for evaluation. Endocervical cells present.

 

 

 

' " END OF REPORT Pa2e8 of8

