/cA~d—)

WW MM N"; “WI/3
th‘MMW 65%] MIL/ou/u

 

 

UUID: C1CFE3DE- 6285- ACOF- 881RB- 588C613498DeAd
TCGA- EO- A3KIAI- 01A-P

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIer1|
IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII -
|| |||||Il|II|||||||III||||||||||||I|| ||||I|||I|||||||||IIII| ‘

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

1. Lymph node: Right Pelvic notice

2. Lymph node: Left pelvic nodes

3. Lymph node: Right obtumtor node

4. Uterue: Utorue. cervix. ovan'oedutubee

I

 

 

 

 

Diaggosg

1. Lymph nodes. rightpelvic. dissection:
Six lymph nodes. negative for malignancy (0/6)

2. Lymph nodes left pelvic. dissection:
- Eleven lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/11)

3. Lymph nodes, rlghtabturator dissection.
-Four lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/4)

4 Utenrs cervix bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, total hysterectomy bilateral saiplngo-oophorectomy
Uterus:
SEROUS ADENOCARCJNOMA OF ENDOMETRIUM:

-arising in association with endo‘metriai polyp

—superﬂclal extension Into Inner one half of myornetrlal thickness

-lymphovaecular space involvement not identified

-unlnvolved endometrium- atrophic

cerv-lx- negative for carcinoma

Ovaries:
- Negative for carcinoma

Fallopian tubes:
- Negative for carcinoma

9mm:
lmmunoproﬁie:

WT-1. ER — positive
p53. HNF-1 - negative

mm

w
* I...“ on

 

‘4“; 1. . .

- Surgical Pathology Consultation Report “

Specimen: Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Lelt fallopian tube

Procedure: Simple hysterectomy

Bilateral saipingo-oophorectomy
Lymph Node sampling: Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
Specimen Integrity Intact hysterectomy specimen
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.5 cm

Additional dimension: 3.1 cm
Additional dimension: 2.8 cm

Histologlc Type: Serous adenocarclnoma
Histologlc Grade: Not applicable
Myometrial invasion: Present

Myometrial thickness: 10 mm
Less than 50% myometrlal Invasion
involvement of Cervix: Not involved
Extent of involvement of Other Organs:
Right ovary not involved
Lott ovary not involved
Right fallopian tube not involved
Left fallopian tube not involved
vagina not applicable
Right parametrium not applicable
Left parametrium not applicable
Omentum not applicable
Rectal wall not applicable
Bladder well not applicable
Pelvic wail not applicable
Bladder mucosa and/or bowel mucosa not applicable

Margins: Unlnvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT1a (lA): Tumor limited to endometrium or invades less than 1/2 of the myometrlum
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Pelvic lymph nodes examined: 21
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: None identified

 

 

 

D rt Ion
1.The specimen container labelled with the patients name and as "right pelvic lymph nodes“ contains a single piece of an
unoriented ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 2.1 x 2.2 x 1.4 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. . Within the fatty tissue.
multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.4 cm to 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm.
The specimen is submitted in late as follows:
1A multiple lymph nodes

‘ szora

 

 

 

’ surgIc-I Pathology Consultation Report !

1B the rest of the fatty tissue submitted in toto

2.The specimen container labelled with the patients name and as "left pelvic lymph nodes“ contains 3 pieces of an
unorlanted fibroadlpose tissue measuring 1.3 x 1.8 x 1.4 to 2.4 x 1.3 x 2.4 cm received in 10% buffered forrnalln. . Within
the fatty tissue. multiple lymph nodes are identified grossly measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm to 2.1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm.

The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:

2A one lymph node bisected

23 one lymph node bisected

C. multiple lymph nodes.

20 one lymph node bisected

2Emultiple lymph nodes.

2F the rest of the fatty tissue submitted in toto

3. The specimen container labelled with the patients name and as "right obturator lymph nodes“ contains a single piece of
an unoriented flbroadlpose tissue measuring 3.2 x 1.2 x 0.9 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. . Within the fatty
tissue. two lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly measuring 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.3 and 2.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm

The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:

3A one lymph node bisected

as one lymph node bisected

3C the rest of the fatty tissue submitted in toto

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as “uterus, cervix ovaries and tubes" contains a uterus
with cervix, bilateral ﬁmbrlated fallopian tube and bilateral ovaries received in 10% buffered formalin. The uterus
measures 7.6 SI x 4.7 ML x 3.1 cm AP with the cervix measuring 2.6 cm In diameter with a 1.2 cm slit~shaped os. The
right and left ovary measures 1.9 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm and 1.8 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm respectively. The right and left ﬁmbriated fallopian
tube measures 3.0 cm in length by 0.4 cm in diameter and 4.5 cm in length by 0.4 cm in diameter respectively. The entire
specimen weighs 85.8 9. On gross examination, the both the right and left ovary is tiny, with the external surface
predominantly smooth. shiny and grossly unremarkable. On sectioning, the cut surface has a variegated brown tan color
and has a slightly soft and ﬂabby consistency. The right and left flrnbriated fallopian tube is brown in color. predominantly
smooth and grossly unremarkable. The anterior and posterior uterine serosa is brown tan In color. with focal areas of
hemorrhagic ﬁbrous adhesions with multiple defects noted predominantly seen on the anterior uterine serosa ranging in
size from 0.5 to 2.1 cm in diameter. 0n sectioning, a large fungsting polypoid tumor ls identified predominantly adhered
to the posterior endometrlum measuring 3.1 Si x 3.5 ML x 2.8 cm AP. The tumor Is brown-tan in color, and has a soft
friable consistency. The rest of the endometrium has a nodular appearance. The myometrium has an average thickness
of 1.0 cm and appears to be slightly trabeculated. A well circumscribed white-tan nodule with a whorled appearance Is
identified on the myometrium measuring 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.8 cm. The anterior and posterior endocervix ls brown-tan in color
with a defect of the the posterior cervix measuring 0.5 cm in maximum dimension. The exocervix appears to be slightly
hemorrhagic. Representative sections are submitted as follows;

4MB right ﬂmbriated fallopian tube serially sectioned and submitted in toto

40 right ovary serially sectioned and submitted in toto

4D-4E left fallopian tube serially sectioned and submitted in toto

4F left ovary serially sectioned and submitted in toto

AG-4H anterior endomyometrium superior aspect full thickness

4l-4J anterior endomyometrium mid superior aspect to cervix to longitudinal section

4K additional representative section of the anterior endomyometrium to show nodularity in the endometrlum
4L 4M posterior endomyometrium superior aspect full thickness

4N40 posterior endomyometrium mid superior aspect to cervix longitudinal section

4P additional representative section of the poiypoid tumor taken from the posterior endomyometrium

Multiple pieces of tissue is stored frozen

 

 

i m...”

