  

— h
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left ovary and fallopian tube, resection:
Papillary serous carcinoma, present as 1.5 cm mass involving left
ovary and 1.2 cm

mass involving fallopian tube; tumor present on ovarian cortical
surface and tubal
serosal surface; see comment.

B. Right ovary, fallopian tube, and vermiform appendix, resection:

1. Papillary serous carcinoma present as 2.1 cm mass involving right
ovary and

multipie small nodules (largest 0.4 cm) involving right fallopian tube;
tumor
present on ovarian cortical surface and tubal serosal surface; see
comment.
2. Vermiform appendix with serosal adhesions binding it to ovary and
fallopian
tube; no direct extension of tumor into appendix identified.
. Uterus, hysterectomy:

Cervix with no significant pathologic abnormalities.

Benign atrophic endometrium.

Myometrium with no significant pathologic abnormalities.

Uterine serosa with focal fibrous adhesions.

No carcinoma identified.
. ”Right para-rectal tumor", biopsy:
Papillary serous carcinoma, infiltrating fibroadipose tissue.
E. “Left para—rectal tumor“, biopsy:

Papillary serous carcinoma, infiltrating fibroadipose tissue.
Page 1 of5

 

UWPWN‘T‘U

F. Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:

Fourteen lymph nodes with no tumor identified (0/14).
G. Left common iliac iymph nodes, excision:

Five lymph nodes with no tumor identified (0/5).

H. Left peri-aortic lymph nodes, excision:

Three iymph nodes with no tumor identified (0/3).

1. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:

Eleven lymph nodes with no tumor identified (0/11).

 

-- Migheeem meneiliecwlymph-nodeﬁexcision:
Five lymph nodes with no tumor identified (0/5).
K. Right peri-aortic lymph nodes, excision: .
One lymph node with no tumor identified (0/1).
L. “Ileum nodules", excision:

 

2cm; «#Iissueecensistentwitheserosaladhesiensrno—lymphﬁodesor—tumor

 

     

identified.
M. "Omentum", biopsy:
Vascular adipose tissue consistent with omentum; no tumor identified.

N. I’Omentum #2", biopsy:

Vascular adipose tissue consistent with omentum; no tumor identified.

0. "Omentum #3", biopsy:

Vascular adipose tissue

consistent with omentum; no tumor identified. .

COMMENT:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Papillary serous carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: 2/3 (moderately differentiated).

3. Location of tumor: Bilateral.

4. Diameter of tumor: 1.2 cm (left), 2.1 cm (right).

5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Tumor on surface,

6. Condition of capsule: Intact.

7. Appearance of cut surface: Solid and cystic, mainly solid.

8. Color of solid areas: White.

9. Necrosis: Not identified.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not identified.

11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Fallopian tube, right and left para-rectal regions.
12. Pelvic lymph nodes: 0/35 contain metastatic tumor.

13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: None.

14. Para—aortic lymph nodes: 0/4 contain metastatic tumor.

15. Peritoneal cytology: Positive (Cytology accession number: #
16. Other significant findings: Adhesion of vermiform appendix to rig ta nexa.
Page 2 of 5

17. FIGO stage: IIC (if no distant metastases present).

18. TNM stage: pTZCNOMX (IIC if no distant metastases present).

 

Specimen(s) Received 5
A:Left adnexa (F8) :
B:Right ovary and tube with appendix (FS)

C:Uterus and cervix .
D:Right pararectal tumor
E:Left pararectal tumor
F:l_eft pelvic lymph nodes

G:Left common iliac lymph nodes

H:l_eft periaortic lymph nodes

‘I:Right pelvic lymph nodes

J:Right common iliac lymph nodes

K:Right periaortic lymph nodes

L:Ileum nodules

M:Omentum‘1

N:Omentum 2

O:Omentum 3

Intraoperative Diagnosis
FSl(A). Left adnexa: High grade carcinoma, favor senses, present on both fallopian

tube'an—d ovarian

. lg a nexa : lg gra ecarcmoma, avor serous, presant on
ovarian surface.

Clinical Histor
The patient is a_ith bilateral pelvic masses, increase in CA—125
to 930, and abn

bleeding. She undergoes hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and
numerous
abdominal/pelvic biopsies.

 

 
 

Gross Description

The specimen is received in fifteen parts, each labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Parts A and B are received fresh from the Operating Room. Parts C through 0 are
received in formalin.

Part A is received fresh and is additionally labeled "Left adnexa." It consists of an
ovary and attached ‘

fallopian tube, weighing 105 gm and measuring 9.1 x 4.5 x 3.8 cm in aggregate. The
ovary measures 3.5 X

3.0 x 1.8 cm. The fallopian tube measures 7.0 cm in length and 1.0 cm in average
diameter. The end of

the fallopian tube has a papillary, white-brown mass protruding from it. The ovary
has a papillary mass,

measuring 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm, attached to the external surface and growing toward
the fallopian tube. The

external surface is otherwise unremarkable. The ovary and fallopian tube are
bisected, demonstrating a

firm nodule, measuring 1.5 cm, within the central aspect of the ovary. Additionally,
there is a papillary,

white-tan nodule, measuring 1.2 cm, within the tubal fimbria. No other lesions are
noted. A portion of the

papillary mass on the fimbria as well as from the surface of the ovary is submitted
for frozen section

diagnosis as F81, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.
Representative sections of the .

remainder of the tissue is submitted as follows:

Cassette A2: Section of fallopian tube fimbria with tumor on exterior.

Cassette A3: Cross section of ovary with nodule.

Cassette A4: Representative section of ovary with tumor in relationship to capsule.
Cassette A5: Relationship of ovary with papillary tumor on exterior of ovary.
Cassette A6: Cross section of fallopian tube with intraluminal tumor.

Part B is received fresh and is additionally labeled ”Right ovary and tube with j
appendix." It consists of an .
irregular fragment of tissue, consisting of ovary (measuring 3.5 x 2.8 x 2.1 cm), :

fallopian tube (measuring
Page 3 of 5

 

5.0 cm in length and 1.0 cm in diameter), and appendix (measuring 4.1 cm in length
and 0.8 cm in

diameter). The specimen weighs 33 gm in aggregate. The ovary is generally white—
tan, smooth, and

 

glistening; however, there is a firm, nodular area, measuring 0.4 cm in diameter, on
the exterior surface of

the ovary, surrounded by fine, white-tan, papillary structures. The fallopian tube also
has numerous

small, papillary nodules, ranging in size from 0.1 to 0.4 cm in diameter, scattered
over the exterior surface

of the fallopian tube. The external appearance of the appendix is unremarkable. The
appendix appears to

be adherent to the fallopian tube and ovary. The ovary is bisected to reveal a firm,
white—tan, nodular

mass, measuring 2.1 cm in greatest dimension, which extends to the surface to
create a portion of the

nodule, already described, on the exterior surface of the ovary. Tissue from this
region is submitted for

frozen section diagnosis as F82, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette 31. The distal one

third of the appendix is longitudinally sectioned and submitted in cassette B2. The
remainder of the

appendix is cross sectioned and submitted in cassette 83. The remainder of the
tissue is submitted as

follows:

Cassettes B4-BS: Sections of ovary showing relationship of tumor nodule to ovary.
Cassette 86: Representative sections of fallopian tube with papillary nodules on
surface.

Part C is additionally labeled "Uterus and cervix." It consists of a total hysterectomy
specimen (without

attached adnexa), weighing 43 gm and measuring 6.5 cm from superior to inferior,
3.5 cm from cornu to

cornu, and 3.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The cervix measures 3.0 x 2.0 cm of
the face of the

exocervix, with a slit—like os, measuring 0.4 cm in length. The external surface of the
uterus is grossly

unremarkable, with no nodules or papillary structures noted. The specimen is inked
so that the posterior

surface is black and the anterior surface is blue. The specimen is then bivalved to
reveal a cervical canal

that measures 2.5 cm in length. There are no obvious lesions identified within the
uterine cavity. The

myometrium measures 1.1 cm in thickness. Tissue is submitted as follows:

Cassette C1: Anterior cervix.

Cassette C2: Posterior cervix.

Cassettes C3—C4: Myometrium with overlying endometrium.

Part D is additionally labeled ”Right pararectal tumor." It consists of two unoriented,
irregular fragments of

red-brown soft tissue, measuring 3.2 x 3.1 x 1.8 cm in aggregate. The specimen is
serially sectioned to 4
reveal a firm, white, encapsulated nodule, measuring 1.0 cm in diameter. The
specimen is entirely

submitted in cassettes D1 through D3.

Part E is additionally labeled "Left pararectal tumor." It consists of a single
unoriented, irregular fragment

 

of firm tissue, measuring_3.0 wacm..._T.bespecimeniisseriallyeseetionedend—w

entirely submitted in

    

Part F is additionally labeled ”Left pelvic lymph nodes." It consists of numerous
unoriented, irregular

fragments of yellow—brown fibrofatty tissue, measuring 3.5 x 2.8 x 0.8 cm in
aggregate. The specimen is

entirely submitted in cassettes F1 through F4.

Part G is additionally labeled ”Left common illac lymph nodes." It consists of
numerous unoriented,

irregular fragments of yellow—brown fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm
in aggregate. The

specimen is entirely submitted in cassette 61.

Part H is additionally labeled "Left periaortic lymph nodes.” It consists of numerous
unoriented, irregular

fragments of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1.8 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm in aggregate. The
largest lymph node

measures 1.3 cm in greatest dimension; this lymph node is bisected and submitted
in cassette H1. The

remainder of the lymph node candidates and all remaining soft tissue are entirely
submitted in cassette H2.

Part 1 is additionally labeled ”Right pelvic lymph nodes.” It consists of numerous
unoriented, irregular

fragments of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 3.5 x 2.3 x 1.7 cm in aggregate. The
specimen is entirely

submitted in cassettes I1 through 13.

Part 3, additionally labeled "Right common iliac lymph node," consists of a single
irregular, unoriented

fragment of yellow-brown, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. The

specimen is entirely
Page 4 of 5

submitted in cassettes 31 and 32.

Part K, additionally labeled "Right periaortic lymph node," consists of a single
irregular, unoriented

fragment of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected
and submitted

entirely in cassette K1.

Part L, additionally labeled “Ileum nodes,“ consists of numerous irregular, unoriented
fragments of

red-brown, firm tissue, measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely
submitted in cassette L1.

Part M, additionally labeled "Omenturn," consists of a single irregular, unoriented
fragment of yellow—brown,

fibrofatty tissue, measuring 8.5 x 9.5 X 0.9 cm. No nodules or other abnormalities
are identified. The

specimen is serially sectioned to reveal no masses, nodules, or other lesions. A
representative section is

submitted in cassettes M1—M2.

Part N, additionally labeled "Omentum 2," consists of a single irregular, unoriented
fragment of

yellow-brown, fibrofatty tissue, measuring 16.1 x 9.3 x 0.9 cm. No nodules, masses,
or other lesions are

 

 

 

identified in the 5Dedmemltjsseﬂalbcsectionediueveal-noebnormalities. A
representative section is

 

submitted in cassettes N1~N2.

Part 0, additionally labeled "Omentum 3," consists of a single irregular, unoriented
fragment of yellow,

fibrofatty tissue, measuring 20.1 x 5.2 x 0.9 cm. The specimen does not contain any
nodules, masses, or

other lesions. it is serially sectioned to reveal no abnormalities. A representative
section is submitted in

cassettes 01-02.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by
attending

 

 

