 

  

Reporting Information Date/Time

Consultant-In—Charge — Final

‘Received Date/Time

 

Final
Histopathologist
Laboratory

Submitting Physician Final
Histopathology Report * Final
DIAGNOSIS

Small intestine and sigmoid colon: Diffuse large

B—cell lymphoma.

Comment: The specimen shows lymphomatous

involvement by diffuse large B~cell lymphoma. The *

phenotype is in keeping with germinal centre

B—cell (GCB) type by Hans' criteria although the a

expression of FoxPl and weak immunostaining for
LMOZ has been reported in the activated B—cell
(ABC) subtype.

GROSS DESCRIPTION ‘

The specimen is received in formalin, labelled with patient's data, and
designated "small bowel tumour with sigmoid colon". It consists of an enblock
resection of small bowel tumour mass together with adherent segments of small
and large bowel. The small bowel loops are twisted and kinked, with part of
them entrapped within the encircling tumour mass, measuring in total
approximately 70cm in length and 8cm in diameter. The tumour mass measures 15 x
14 x 9cm, located 7cm from far end and 4cm from near end of the small bowel. It
has a fish—flesh pale pink appearance on cut sections. The large bowel is
attached to the external surface of the tumour mass, measuring 9cm in length and
4.5cm in circumference. The mucosa of the bowel appears unremarkable. The
external surface of the tumour is inked blue. Also received a piece of cross
stapled bowel measuring 6 x 3.5 x 1cm. No discrete lesions are seen. No
definite lymph nodes are identified in this specimen.

(Al-far margin of small bowel, AZ—near margin of small bowel, A3&A4—shaved

margins of large bowel, A5 to A8—tum with entra ed small bowel,
A9&A10—tumour with adjacent mucosa) ﬂ

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Sections show a transmural lymphomatous infiltrate in the small intestine,
featuring a diffuse infiltrate of large lymphoid cells with scattered tingible
body macrophages, imparting a focally 'starry sky' appearance. Neoplastic cells
display vesicular chromatin, moderate nuclear pleomorphism, prominent nucleoli
and scattered mitoses. Immunohistochemistry confirms the neoplastic lymphoid
cells to be of B—cell lineage with expreSsion of C020 and PAXS. They co—express
germinal centre markers CD10, bc16 and heterogeneous staining for LMOZ. At the
same time there is also weak and heterogeneous expression of MUMl, as well as
strong immunoreactivity for FoxPl. No residual follicular dendritic meshworks
are seen with immunostaining for CD21. The proliferation fraction is high at
>90% and there is strong expression of the anti— apoptotic molecule bch in most
tumour cells, thereby excluding Burkitt lymphoma.

Immunohistochemical stains with CD20 and PAX5 demonstrate scattered small B
lymphocytes and CD3 stains T lymphocytes. No marked expansion of these cells are

seen .

 

 
 
  

