SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

Kidney, right, laparoscopic nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Sarcomatoid features: Not identified

Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrman grade 2

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.3 cm

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or microscopic):
Capsular invas ion/perirenal adipose tissue: Not involved

Gerota' s fascia: Not involved

Renal sinus: Not involved

Maj or veins (renal vein or segmental branches, IVC): Not involved
Ureter: Not involved

Venous (large vessel): Not involved

Lymphatic (small vessel): None identiﬁed

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Gerota' s fascia (nephrectomy): Negative

Renal vein (nephrectomy): Negative

Ureter (nephrectomy): Negative

Adrenal gland: not present in specimen

Lymph nodes: none identified

Other significant findings: Angiomyolipoma, 0.3 cm

A] CC Staging:

ple

pNX

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

Clinical History:
right renal mass.

Gross Description:

Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: laparoscopic nephrectomy
Side of specimen: right

Size and weight of specimen: 280 g, 13.2 x 10 x 4.3 cm overall composed of a 10.8 x 6.7 x 4.0 cm kidney with attached perinephric fat and
3.6 cm of attached ureter.

Orientation: The posterior surface is marked with blue ink.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: absent

Tumor description/site: The tumor is a ﬂeshy tan-pink circumscribed nodule with central red-orange discoloration. It is located in the
superior/mediallposterior aspect of the specimen in the cortex. The tumor compresses adjacent cortical tissue and abuts the renal pelvis.

Tumor size: 4.3 x 3.6 x 3.1 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: absent
Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the kidney: appears conﬁned to the kidney

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: tumor grossly does not involve
Gerota' s fascia: tumor grossly does not involve

Renal vein: tumor grossly does not involve

Ureter: tumor grossly does not involve

Other organs: n/a

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: within 0.4 cm of the closest blue inked posterior margin (A5)

Renal vein: negative

Renal artery: negative

Ureter: Grossly unremarkable. The pelvic urothelium is white-tan and velvety and the ureter is of normal caliber.

Description of kidney away from tumor: Red-tan—brown grossly unremarkable with an average cortical thickness of 0.7 cm. There is a
solitary 0.2 cm white cortical nodule in the superior lateral pole located 4 cm from the edge of the tumor (A4).

Lymph nodes (hilar): none identified

Other significant findings: none

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal are given to tissue procurement.
Digital photograph taken: no

Block Summary:

A1 - ureter and vascular margins of resection

A2 - tumor abutting pelvic urothelium

A3 - tumor towards hilum

A4 - small cortical nodule

A5 - tumor and posterior blue inked soft tissue margin
A6 - tumor and adjacent renal parenchyma

A7 - central tumor with discoloration and softening
A8 - lower pole renal parenchyma away from tumor

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by.

 

