Specimen Received:
Left kidney

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
Kidney, left, nephrectomy:

Tumor histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, type 2
Sarcomatoid features (%): No
Tumor size: 4.5 cm (greatest dimension)
Other dimensions: 4.5 x 3 cm
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma
Focality: Multifocal
Number of tumors: 2 additional papillary renal cell carcinomas,

type 1 (0.6 cm each)
10 tubulo-papillary adenomas (0.2 to 0.4 cm)

Fuhrman grade: 3 of 4 (largest lesion)
Perinephric fat invasion: No

Renal sinus invasion: No

Renal vein involvement: No

Adrenal gland present: No

Cancer at resection margin: No
Pathologic findings in nonneoplastic kidney: chronic pyelonephritis
patchy interstitial fibrosis with a chronic
inflammatory infiltrate
arteriolosclerosis
Hilar lymph nodes present: No

Pathologic stage - pT1b pNX pMX

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:

Received in a single formalin filled container labeled with the patient's name and additionally labeled "left
kidney." The specimen consists

of the product of a radical nephrectomy with a marked amount of perinephric fat
with overall dimensions of 30 x 25 x 12 cm. A portion of this tissue was

procured with the tissue bank. The renal parenchyma has approximate dimensions
of 11 x 5 x 6 cm. The specimen is remarkable for a tan-brown nodular, well
circumscribed mass projecting off the lower pole of the kidney. This mass has
dimensions of 4.5 x 4.5 x 3 cm. This mass is grossly confined to the renal
parenchyma. This mass is greater than 4 cm from the nearest soft tissue edge.
This tumor is greater than 2 cm from the renal sinus. This lesion grossly does

not involve any major vessels. The kidney is also remarkable for at least ten
additional lesions. These lesions range in size from 0.1 to 0.9 cm in greatest
dimension. These lesions are all present in the cortex involving lower, mid and
upper poles. The lesions are all yellow-brown and relatively well circumscribed.

All of these lesions are confined to the renal parenchyma and do not involve the
sinus fat, perinephric fat or large vessels.

The tissue is submitted as follows:
1 vascular and ureteral margins;
2-3 sections of largest tumor to capsule;
45 additional sections of largest tumor to include parenchyma;
6-8 multiple additional lesions, further designated:
6 three lesions;
7 four lesions;
8 three lesions;
9 section of uninvolved parenchyma to renal pelvis.

The perinephric fat is searched extensively and an adrenal gland is not

identified.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: —

