 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. “Tumor #1", right kidney (partial nephrectomy): Kidney parenchyma with chronic interstitial inflammation and
cluster of atypical cells.

2. “Tumor #2", right kidney (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furman nuclear grade 2.
3. “Tumor #5”, right kidney (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furman nuclear grade 2.
4. “Tumor #3", right kidney (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furman nuclear grade 2.

5. “Tumor #4”, right kidney (partial nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furman nuclear grade 2.

NOTE:

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical History:_ with VHL and several tumors on right
kidney Specimen Taken For Protocol: - Yes Requestor Nam

 

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: right renal masses Post—Operative Diagnosis:
same Operative Findings: ﬁve tumors resected from right kidney

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. TUMOR, Right kidney # 1
2. TUMOR, Right kidney # 2
3. TUMOR, Right kidney # 3

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 1 of 3

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

4. TUMOR, Right kidney # 4
5. TUMOR, Right kidney # 5

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 5 containers labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number
and further described as follows:

1. “Kidney tumor #1". The specimen consists of a pink soft tissue nodule measuring 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.9 cm. The
specimen is bisected to reveal a brown/tan cut surface and renal parenchyma. A central slice is given to UOB for
Research. The remaining is sent to Pathology. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received consistent with
the above description. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette 1'1 for permanent
processing.

2. “Right kidney tumor #2". The specimen consists of a red pink and tan fragment of kidney measuring 1.9 x 1.6 x
1 cm. The specimen is bisected to reveal bilateral tan renal parenchyma and cyst measuring 0.7 cm in diameter.
The specimen is entirely submitted to Pathology. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received consistent with
the above description. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes A and 28 for
permanent processing.

3. “Tumor #5". The specimen consists of yellow soft tissue mass measuring 3.1 x 2.6 x 1.2 cm. It bisected to
reveal a golden yellow Iobulated cut surface. 50% is procured for UOB. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is
received consistent with the above description. The specimen has a central white scar. The specimen is
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes ' I for permanent processing.

4. “Right kidney tumor #3". The specimen consists of pink, tan soft tissue nodule measuring 1.6 x 1.1 x 1 cm. It is
bisected. More than 70% of the tumor is solid. There is a small cystic space measuring 0.8 cm in diameter. None
was procured. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received. The uncut surface of the specimen is inked in
blue. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes ‘ A and 4B for permanent
processing.

5. “Right kidney tumor #4". The specimen consists of a pink soft tissue nodule measuring 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. A
yellow nodule measuring 0.6 cm in diameter is present on the surface. The specimen is bisected to reveal a
yellow/tan cut surface. 50% is given to UOB. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received consistent with the
above description. It is bisected and entirely submitted in cassettes I for permanent processing.

The above procurements were performed by Drs.—

No consultants

 

Patient Identification

 

Page 2 of 3

 

— 1 Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 3 of 3

