UUID: 35559171- E56A- 4888- 995D- 380334FBABBD
TCGA- Q—R AGGS— 91A- PR

 

Surgical Pathology

Final Results}
Final

eeseiiiruriieeﬁi' »
DIAGNOSIS: Adrenal, left mass: Pneochromocytoma with capsular
invasion; vascular invasion cannot be ruled out: see Note.

NOTE: Sections show a pheochromocytoma. lmmunostains are performed and
the tumor cells are positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin and 8-100.
The tumor shows capsular invasion. Vascular invasion cannot be ruled
out.
has reviewed the case and concurs.

The immunoperoxidase tests performed here were develooed and their
oerforrnance characteristics determined by the 7

aboratory of Pathology, They have not been cleared or
approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has also
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNi—"ORMATION:
Prequerative Diagnosis: pheochromocytoma
Post~0perative

pheochromocytoma Operative Findings: large left
adrenal

Bn‘ef Clinical History: y.o. female with left
adrenal

PROCEDURE:

SPEClMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND. LEFT

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: Received fresh from the OR. labeled with the
patient's name and medical record number and ”left adrenal
pheochromocytoma" is a pink/red soft tissue mass measuring 7.5 x 7 x 5
cm and weighing 142.3 gm. The specimen is inked black and bivalved to
reveal a red/brown hemorrhagic surface with a central cyst iined by a
yellowish fibrous wall measuring 2 cm in largest dimension. A thin
partial rim of yellow adrenal cortex is present. Approximateiy 40% of
the tumor mass and a small piece of uninvolved adrenal measuring 04 x
0.4 x 0.2 cm is procured for i lab. Tissue procured does not
involve the inked margins. Gross photographs were taken. The
procurement was performed by Dr.

. At Surgical Pathology, the specimen received matches the above
description. Multiple sections of tumor including capsule and adjacent
uninvolved adrenal are sampled and submitted in cassettes "

 

Requested By:

Do not tile in Medical Record

 

Gross dictated by

No consultants

 

 

Requested By: Do not ﬁie in Medical Record

Ila-Jag:

 

 

