UUID: B7A66ECE- BBEE- 4D45- BBBF- 1A9F26DR10A8Fac
TCGA- TQ -A7RN- -01A- PR

Nature of material: Brain

Received on:

Macroscopy:

Multiple irregular pieces of brown-gray and soft tissue, measuring together 2.6 x 2.0 x
1.0 cm.

Microscopy:

The histological sections exhibit malignancy with moderate cellularity composed of cells
with glial phenotype arranged in matrix something fibrillar. The neoplastic cells exhibit
moderate atypia and pleomorphism. Have oval nuclei, evenly distributed chromatin and
inconspicuous nucleoli. Many cells show a clear cytoplasm. In areas of high cellularity,
cells tend to have more irregular nuclei and dense chromatin. It is note the multiple foci
of dystrophic calcification in middle of the lesion. The vasculature consists of abundant
and branched capillaries. Some vessels show foci of endothelial proliferation. We
observed occasional mitotic figures, including atypical figures, especially in areas of
high cell density. There are no areas of necrosis.

Diagnosis:

Biopsy product of lesion in the left insula:

- Anaplastic oligodendroglioma (grade Ill-WHO, 2007). ICD-O 9451/3 — see note.
NOTES:

- The presence of heterogeneous areas in the lesion raised the possibility of

progression from low—grade oligodendroglioma (grade II) to anaplastic
oligodendroglioma (grade III)

PROFESSIONAL PARTICIPANTS OF REPORT

rape 3

45:; an MI- 9455/6

imw WNOS 0,7,0

P TSS dxoﬁkmpwa,
”(gamma am is:

IIT c
0/1)”,th (Mama)- 3A

vA:

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05 1:3}

:S‘t-udy Subject ID: iPerson It): N/A i
EStudy/Site: TCGA Brain lower grade glioma » Brain Lower Grade Glioma) :Age: N/A
: Event: PathDiscrepancy

EDate of Birth:
Interviewer: Sex: M

Tumor Identiﬁer Provided on Initial Case Quality Control .

Pr0vide the tumor identiﬁer documented on the initial case quality control form For
Form

this case.

Pathologic Diagnosis Provided on Oligodendroglioma Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial pathology report for this
Initial Pathology Report grade III case. If the histology for this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.

Histologic features of the sample provided for TCGA,

Oligodendroglioma Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality
as reﬂected on the CQCF

grade II Control Form completed for this case.
. Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

Provide the reason for the wrotte in TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis

Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the
discrepancy between the Discrepancy Form: " I was not involved in the initial initial pathology report for this case is not consistent
pathology report and the TCGA diagnosis. In my opinion there is criteria for grade III in this with the diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality
Case Quality Control Form tumor. I reviewed all slides".

Control Form.

Name of TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case for
Director TCGA.

 

 

