UUID:2c330241-a43c-4ae1-aas1-78345097ccea
TcsA-Rv-As43-o1A-PR Redaﬁlted

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'llllllll'l

l

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name Accession #3“
Med. Rec.#: Visit #: " Service Date:
DOB: - Sex: l, Received:

Soc. Sec. #: Location: Client:
Physician(s): ‘ - $229,013
WWW ZZZ-940123

. NOE
7IID
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS 4V“? 6135),; @B%, ﬂaw die

67:. 2-
A. Brain, left temporal lobe, excision: Anaplastic Astrocytoma, WHO grade III; see

comment.

B. Brain, left temporal lobe, excision: Anaplastic Astrocytoma, WHO grade 111; see
comment.

COMMENT:

H&E sections of this astrocytoma show multiple areas of increased cellularlty and mitotic activity (up to
4 MF/lo HPF), consistent with an anaplastic astrocytoma, WHO grade III. Immunohlstochemistry for
IDH-l (R132H mutant protein), p53, and MIB-l was performed and evaluated on block A5. The
neoplasm is strongly positive for IDH-l, and approximately 25% of the cells are positive for p53. The
MIB-I labeling index is estimated at approximately 8% within areas of highest staining.

 

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 (A) Brain, left temporal lobe, excision: Inﬁltrating astrocytoma, favor astrocytic, no high-grade
features on frozen section.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in fresh in two parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record
number.

Part A, labeled “left frontal lobe tumor," consists of a single unoriented fragment of soft tan-brown
tissue (3.3 x 1.8 x 1.4 cm). A portion of the specimen is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, with
the remnant submitted in cassette A1. The unfrozen portion of the specimen is sectioned and

Part B, labeled "left temporal lobe tumor, permanent," consists of a single unoriented fragment of soft
tan—brown tissue ('2 x 2 x 1.3 cm). The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in
cassettes 81 to B4. ‘

The lmmunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

. They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration;
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. may '- ‘

should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory Is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement

Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified to perform highwcomplexity clinical testing.

Clinical History

The patient is a year old man with partial complex seizu

res and language disturbance who undergoes
resection of a diffuse lnfiltratlng, left frontotemporal tumor.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist following review of all '
pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary interpretations performed by any resident
involved in the case and performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. ' ' 1”"

. .

M 6 I {3 ”ﬂ—4
)iag..ngl.o«<nreim_nfir_,,4—-«'—~— _._,——l>-—-—

).imary Tumor .Je Disciepnntv __
“PMJIJ?

 
  
   
 

'1»
W." 11
"any History

is hrmous'fIim-n’y Neledr - -
. u

I raised.

       
  

D I R! v'lrr'edi

