- ' _ lCGA-CS-5397

 

" patient:-

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Left temporal lobe brain tumor (excision): anaplastic astro toma,
grade "I ? IV (WHO scale), see microscopic description, see note
2. Left'temporal lobe Brain tumor (excision): anaplastic astrocytoma,
grade Ill of iv (WHO scale), see microscopic description, see note

Comment:
—reviewed selected slides and concurs with the presence
of malignancy in this material.

Report Electronically Signed onh

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Microscopic Description:

The tumor consists of a moderately pleomorphic and infiltrative
proliferation of astrocytes. There are several mitoses. There is no
microvascuiar proliferation and no necrosis. Focally, tumor ceils are
within the Virchow—Robin spaces. The findings are diagnostic of an
anaplastics astrocytoma, grade III of IV (WHO scale).

Frozen Section Diagnosis:
1. Left temporal lobe tumor: Glial neoplasm

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

 

 

 

None given

Source of Specimen:
1: Left temporal lobe tumor
2: Left temporal lobe tumor

Gross Description:

I. Ee! lemporal Io!e lumor: Received fresh for frozen section

diagnosis, in a Specimen container labeled with the patient's name and
“i left temporal lobe tumor" are multiple fragments of red—tan soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. Touch preparations
are made, and 50% of the specimen submitted for frozen section
diagnosis. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:

A. FSC

B. remainder of specimen

2. Left temporal lobe tumor: Received in formalin, in a specimen
container labeled with the patient's name and "2 left temporal lobe
tumor" are multiple fragments of tan-white soft tissue measuring 4.0 x
4.0 x 1.7 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in 7 cassettes.

Histology Laboratory
H&E

lmmunohistochemistry Notes _
1. Quantification of immunohistochemistry assay for ER and PR studies

Md of Battiafora et.al. Applied lmmunohistochemistry,

2. Hercept Test (DakoCytomation) Formaiin fixed, paraffin embedded.
Interpretation follows the manufacturer' 3 recommendation.

Documented by 0]
1 31 ,

 

 

EGFR pharme Clone Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.
interpretation follows the manufacturer' 3 recommendation.
Doucmente Journal of Clinical Oncology

Vol 21 No. 20

   
  

3. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an anaiyte specific reagent
(ASR).

These tests were deveioped and their erformance characteristics
determined by the Clinical Laboratory of—
Hospital.

They have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.

The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.

 

