W015 -
UUID: BDDCI‘GF- FBC4- 4394- ADGC- ZEGBDSAIQBeZIOa
TCGA- x7- -AsnI=-a1A- PR ’ : - L; , . [3 W “(If ~ f 558:2)5
I Illlllllllllllhllllllllll llllllllllllllII'llllllllllllﬂllllll ui‘l’ﬁzé‘ ’ 13/“ AL ' I 2‘

IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII C" ; J D (L679
IIIIIII “IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII U‘Lﬁ MM

Surgical Pathology Report I if 1WW71\, MW C68. I

* Procedure/Addenda present *

 

Taken: DOB: ‘ Gender: M

Operative Procedure:
Sternotomy, mediastinal mass resection

Pre-Operative Diagnosis:
As below

Post-Operative Diagnosis:
As below

Specimen Received:

A: Anterior mediastinal mass
B: AP window lymph node
Addendum Report
Addendum Diagnosis

A representative portion of this case is sent for specialized laboratory testing. This addendum is created
to report that the results are scanned into the patient's electronic medical record

TEST/ASSAY
RESULTS
Thymoma Class = 1

Patients with a Class1 molecular signature have a low risk of experiencing near
term (within 10 years) clinical metastasis.

Addendum Comment

A section or parafﬁn block from the patient's thymoma tissue was sent for
Thymoma(tm) Gene Expression Assay

Type of Specimen: FFPE prepared tumor tissue

THYMOMA GENE EXPRESSION ASSAY DESCRIPTION

THYMOMA<174> gene expression assay for thymoma tumors is a proprietary

assay which uses RT-PCR to determine the expression levels of a 23 gene panel (4
controls) in primary tumor tissue samples. THYMOMA<174>
classification is calculated from the gene expression results as compared to

results of a training set of patients with known outcomes.

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Thymus. anterior mediastinal mass, excision:
Thymoma. type AB.
See Synoptic Report and Note below.

Synoptic Report

Specimen: Anterior mediastinal mass
Procedure: Mediastinal mass resection
Specimen integrity: Intact
Specimen weight: 135 grams
Tumor size: 4.4 cm (greatest dimension)
Histologic type: Thymoma, type AB
Tumor extension: Invades into capsule without transcapsular
invasion
Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor

Distance of tumor from closest margin: less than 1 mm

Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present within the capsule
Regional lymph nodes:

Number examined: 1 (AP window part B)

Number involved: 0

Pathologic staging for thymomas: Stage I
Implants/distant metastasis: Cannot be assessed
Additional pathologic findings: None

B. Lymph node, AP window, excision:
One lymph node, without signiﬁcant pathologic change (0/1).
See Synoptic Report and Note below.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:
Received are two formalin filled containers labeled with the patient’s name.

Part A is additionally labeled "anterior mediastinal mass" and consists of a
portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue weighing 135 grams with overall dimensions of
12.2 x 8.1 x 3.6 cm. The external surface of the specimen is yellow-tan and
lobular with a single patch of attached mesothelium with dimensions of 6.0 x 3.1

cm. The external surface is inked black. The specimen has been previously
incised and a portion of this tissue has been banked with the Tissue Bank.
Sectioning through the specimen reveals a single well-encapsulated mass with
dimensions of 4.2 x 3.2 x 4.4 cm. The cut surface of the mass is white-tan,
somewhat lobular, and ﬂeshy. The capsule of the mass abuts the inked external
surface. The capsule surrounding the mass is partially calciﬁed. The remaining
fatty tissue has a yellow-tan, lobular cut surface with no additional masses
identified. Representative sections of the mass are submitted in cassettes A1-6.

Part B is additionally labeled "AP window lymph node" and consists of a single
black-tan, rubbery lymph node with dimensions of 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. The
specimen is trisected and entirely submitted in cassette B1.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Criteria

Pr Tumor Site
Prior

(‘ase is
Reviewer Initials Date

__.. _‘_—-——————.-———‘—-[_——'1_ '—'_—l

 

 

