 

6

uare O'l’ wroceoure:

. Neck Date of Receipt
- ’id Neck Date of Report:
, Account #:

Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8- Histog:

Thyroid nodules I papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Right paratracheai lymph node, excision (fs)

2: R10 right upper parathyroid, excision (fs)

3: Additional right parairacheal lymph nodes. excision
4: Left Left paratracheal lymph nodes, excision

5: Additional ieﬂ paratracheai lymph nodes

6: Total thyroid. thyroidectomy

7: Left paratracheal lymph nodes #3 (three)

8: Right paratracheai lymph nodes #3 (three)

UUID:531A3255-M77-431EJESS-4032540138“
TCGA-DJ-ABVD-elA-PR RedaCtEd
1mm

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
WMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWMWWWI
mmmmmmmmwmmmmmmmmmmml ; '

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Right paratracheal lymph node, excision (f3):
Part # 1
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor 0.5cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.1 cm.

Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

icD/U3

Carcinoma , illarq‘,‘H“kl’°“7‘

Xauola
Sikﬂ‘H‘qrmdnlOS C733

5 42* ’L
.10

2. Right upper parathyroid; biopsy:
- Unremarkable parathyroid tissue
3. Additional right paratracheal lymph nodes; excision:

- Five benign lymph nodes (015)

Left Left paratracheal lymph nodes; excision:
- Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue

- Three benign lymph nodes (0/3)

Total thyroid, thyroidectomy:
Part # 6
Tumor Type:
Papillary microcarcinoma

Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Additional left paratracheai lymph nodes; excision:

 

Page 1 of 5

a)“.

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THiS REPORT.

0

Other Tumor Features:
Calciﬁcation of non-psammoma type
Psammoma bodies

Tumor Location:
isthmus

Tumor Size: .
Greatest diameter is 0.8 cm.

Tumor Enmpsulation: .
None identiﬁed

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):
Not identiﬁed
Non—Neoplastic Thyroid:
Exhibits severe chronic iymphocytic thyroiditis
Parathyroid Glands:
identiﬁed
One normoceliuiar parathyroid gland adjacent to the right lobe

 

Left paratracheal lymph nodes #3 (three):
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 4
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 4
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor. 0.9cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.5 cm.
Extranodai extension is not identiﬁed

 

Right paratracheai lymph nodes #3 (three); biopsy:
- Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue
- No lymph node present

DIAGNOSlS iS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT i HAVE

M
a _
*” Report tlecrromcany Signed Out ***

 

1). the specimen is received f
Submitted entirely for frozen

Gross Description:

5

 

resh. labeled “right paratracheal nodule "and consists of two lymph nodes O.5x0.5x0.3cm each.

 

Page 2 of5

to

Summary of sections:
FSC -frozen

“I

2). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "R/O right upper parathyroid" and consists of one piece of soft pink tissue
measuring 0.1x0.1x0.1 cm and weighing less than 0.001gm .Submitted entirely for frozen

Summary of sections:
FSC -frozen

3). The specimen is received in formalin in, labeled "additional right paratracheal lymph node“. and consists of two tan ﬁrm lymph
nodes ranging from 0.3 - 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Both lymph nodes are submitted in their entirety.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes

“A

. 4). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left paratracheal lymph nodes" and consists of an irregular fragment of soﬁ
tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted. ..~

Summary of sections:
U- undesignated

5). The specimen is received in formalin , labeled "additional left paratracheal lymph nodes". and consists of a possible lymph node
measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. it is submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes

a
6). The specimen is received fresh, labeled total thyroid, stitch marks right lobe, and consists of a thyroid weighing 179. The right
lobe measures 4.4 by 1.9 x 1.4 cm, the leﬁ lobe measures 4.6 by 2.0 x 1.3 cm and the isthmus measures 2.1 x 1.5 by 1.2 cm. A
pyramidal lobe is present measuring 1.1 by 0.6 x 0.2 cm. A longitudinal defect is present in the isthmus. The external surface is
covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black, and the anterior is inked blue.
Sectioning reveals a nodule within the isthmus. it measures 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.6. cm and display a tan soft homogeneous cut surface.

The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red brown and unremarkable. Skeletal muscle is present on the anterior surface.
Representative sections of the specimen submitted for' The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
N - nodule

RL - right lobe

LL - left lobe

is - isthmus

“m '
7). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "left paratracheal lymph nodes number three". and consists of four tan ﬁrm lymph
nodes ranging from 0.4 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections: 3- . .- .-
LN - lymph nodes ‘
%

 

8). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled ”right paratracheal lymph node number three". and consists of a piece of adipose
tissue measuring 1.0 crn in greatest dimension. Specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

 

Page 3 of 5

AD - adipose tissue

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Right paratracheal lymph node, excision (is)

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 fsc 1

Part 2: R10 right upper parathyroid, excision (fa)

Block Sect. Site P03
1 fsc 1

Part 3: Additional right paratracheal lymph nodes. excision

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 LN 2

Part 4: Left Left paratracheal lymph nodes. excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Part 5: Additional left paratracheal lymph nodes ..

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 LN 2

Part 6: Total thyroid, thyroidectomy "

Block Sect. Site PC:
2 l8 3

6 LL 7

2 N 3

9 RL 1 1

Part 7: Left paratracheal lymph nodes #3 (three)

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 LN 2

Part a: Right paratracheal lymph nodes #3 (three)

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 AD 2

Intraoperattve Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

%_

1. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Right paratracheal lymph node (is): Metastatic carcinoma. .
Permanent Diagnosis: same w

2. Frozen Section Diagnosis: RIO right upper parathyroid (fs): Parathyroid tissue.
Permanent Diagnosis: same w

 

Page 4 of 5

ﬁ-D
W...

 

”9° 5 °' 5 END OF REPORT

