UUID:9C54BCSD-77A7-47EE-BCE5-76EF2E7197EA

TCGA-VF -A8A8 -O1A- PR
mu
5 Illll

 

Panel: Surgical Pathology Final Report

Redacted
Ill

IlllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Ill
Illllll
u m.u.u.Plllllllllll'ullll.‘l'u'l'll'lFulll'l'lllll'lllllll

93‘9‘ V k . . . . . v l u
l I Abnormal Flags key: C Crltlcal H High L Low R Review * Abnormal
l Intemretatlon Codes: (5} Suscgpcam m; Resistant ms} Moderately Sasceptiblo (1’) Intermediate;
I Status codes; FvI-‘relhnmary F-Finai C‘rﬁiorrected Mn progress/loco mplete x~cancelled 1
' I Dates and trues displayed below are uz-Iiectlon dates; to see the observation date and time for a result. hold your course overthe collection 1
time. ‘ﬁrneslare on a 244m» clock.
I An asterlsk [*1 in the Note column or next to a panel name mdlcates a not: is present. To View it. rest your mouse-cursor on the {*1
NM a ““5519" f .., , 6.01155.th Value Units. ﬂange
SmykuleﬂndogyFiancpon F {IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'
Collection 61!: ' ‘ w
(lbs div
Ordered by:

I:

- rail) 4). :5
930/

Oaﬂttuw
jinx/w}, V Aim cdé I’MUﬁUAL 9055/5
(3,1; -. g’ujm/Eu/‘NQS (’ (“,4

)yQSIC‘SO/IL}

 
 

”I

wtkﬁﬁabiacnaﬁ_hﬂs 907Qt3

surgical Pathology ReperL

Fina! Diagnosis

1. Testis, 33.79, right, {adicol orchiecromy:

A. Malignant mixed germ cell tumor, with predominantiy embzyona; cell
carcinoma

(approximately 95%}. mature teratOmn (approximately 5%), and Kara yolk sac
component, see note,

B. intratubulax germ cell neoplasia pxosenc‘

C. The tumor is confined to the testis. ?here is no :nvolvement of the
tunxca alboqinaa or vaginalis. The rete testis and the epiaidymis are out
iﬂvolvea. No lymphovasoular invaSLon identified.

9. Spermaric card and sparuatlc cord margin, zree of tumor.

Yhe case macezial was reviewed and the report verified by:
(Electronic signature?

Verification Data:

Note

Immonohistoohemical stains performed with adaquace controls demonstxate

extensive positivity fcr 0039 in the embryonal uazclnoma and rare fool of
membranous APP—posisivicy in the region with yolk sac tumor
highlights the intratubular germ cell neoplasia. Rana ECG poaitive cells

noted. howeve: no cytc, and syncitiatzopnoblastic cells are present in the

region of hmnorrhage. See disclaimer

Qathoiogistls)

of3

xicrnscopic Description

Disclaimer:

The above in~vitro {HC‘testg may havg used :eagenta Labeled to: {V9 {in
virxo Diagnostic use}, Iuo (investigational Use Only! and/ax'Ruo (Research
Use Only} aad have not been clearad 3: approved by the U.S Feud ahd Drug
Edninistraticn. Howevey, the FDA has deterMLHed that sack clearance or
apprcvnl is net naceauary for ASE class 1 tests intended to provide
pathologists with adjunctive informatian to assist their morphologic
evaluatiou‘ Th6 tests using IUO or £UO reagents were developed and their

performance characteristics were vazgdated for diagnoat;c use by the

laburatory as raguﬁated under tha
Clinical Labcratory Improvement Amendments of 1989 {CLIA} as quaiified {o
perfurm high complexity clin:cal tasks. Thasa Class 1 RSR teaku are not
intendad :5 provide diagnostic, prngnosric, predxctive Gr thezapeutic
informarinn that is not ﬁarectly caifirmea by :oucina histopathologic
internal or external central speCinmns.

gross Descripticn

The cane is reseivad in one container. labeled with the patient‘s Hams and

medical record number.

Specimen l is rﬁcelvad fresh designated "right testicla" and consists g: a
xadical orchiectomy specimsn wiuh a testicle measuring ? x 4.3 x 4.2 cm,
and a apematic card measuring 8.2% cm m length arm! 2.5 cm in average
diameter. The specimen weighs 33.? g. ?he sparmaaic cvxd margin it shaved
ans submitted as 1A. The-specimen is inked black in aatixaty. The
test£cle 23 bisected through the lung axis of the resuxcle towards the
hilum, revealing two separate massas. The first measures 3.9 x 3.? x 3‘2
5, and the second measures 2.7 x 2.l x 1.3 cm. Theﬁ? masses are separated
by a thin, 2 mm potential capsule. Neither an: of these masaes invade the
tunica albuginea. Neither one of these masses grossly invades the

epididymxs or extand beyond the ttstitle. The ;

 

ggex masx is white yellow,
and pocantxally hamcrrhagxc. rhe smaller mass is veLlcw—bzonn with

potential nacrqsis‘ Rep. sections are as follows:

1A is the spermatéc cord shave margin.

15 is a representative sectiqn GE tha larger tunor.

1: is the smaller tumor in relationship to gotential tumor involving the
race testis.

in through IF are representative secticns of larger tumor, with 19 being a
representatgve section in relationship to tunica yagiaalis.

16 and 1K are representative sections or smaller cumur.

I! is a representative suction of uniavwlved test:s and epldiuymis.

iJ is separate sections of uninvulved testis and epididymis.

1K, 1L; and 1M are representative section 95 the proximal. mid, and distal

parniuus Of aha epiaiaymis. zasyectiyely.

SUMMARY OF SSC'IGN3: 13, multiple, repxasencativa

Dictated by:

clinical Information

year—old male with right testicukaz masa
Ere-Operative Diagnosis: Rot specified
Post-Opexative Diagnosis: Not specified
Operation: Right radius: orchiactomy

Specilic questions td.be answereé; No qusstlons.

Specimen:

1 Right Test kale

*“ End of report “*

m, 45 ‘2‘ m
PM 57” WW

/1

of3

 

 

