6E- 432F- 9389- -6FBC2A528324
Patient Name. UUID: 2E996CFE- 9-]:7 RlelldllTlill ted ‘ , I
Ill||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| lilglllllllllllll m

\ IHIHIIIHHIHIIH
:3, u‘l{H‘I‘l‘lﬂmi‘l'ﬁ‘lH‘I‘J‘l‘l‘l‘l‘m‘l‘l IllIlllllllllllllllllllllIII

0 md

Report Name:

Surg Path Case — STATUS: Final

“*SEE NOTE Collect/Perform:
Ordered By: Ordered Date:
Facility: Department:

Physician who Performed Procedure:
Requesting Physician:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, CASE”:
Attending Pathologist
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Utexus, bilateral ovaries, and fallopian tubes, total hysterectomy,
bilateral salpingooophorectomy:

— Papillary serous adenocarcinoma with less than 50% myometrial invasion.

- Multiple leiomyomas; one of them adjacent to the LEFT ovary.

- Ovaries, fallopian tubes, and cervix negative for adenocarcinoma.

~ Lymphovascular invasion is seen.

— Please see below for Synoptic Report.

2. Paza~aortic lymph node, RIGHT, excision:

- Thirteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/13).

3. Para-aortic lymph node, LEFT, excision:

- Four Lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/4).

4. Pelvic lymph node, RIGHT, excision:

— Nine lymph nodes. negative for carcinomn (0/9).

5. External iliac lymph node, LEFT, excision:

- Five lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (9/5).

6. omencum. biopsy:

~ Fibroadipoae tissue with one Lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1).

Patient Name“ a . Med Rec 1}: w
M
- O -

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

Synoptic report:
Uterus. cervix, bilateral ovaries. and fallopian tubes, hysterectomy, and
salpingo-oophorectomy and lymph node dissection:
- Histologic Type: Papillary serous sdenocarcinoma
- Histologic Grade: High grade
— Nuclear grade: High grade
— Tumor Size:
Greatest dimension: Cannot be determined.
- Specimen Integrity:
< Tumor Site: Anterior and posterior endometrium, and fundus
- Myometrial Invasion: Less than 56% myometrial invasion (47%}
Depth of invasion: 16 mm
Myometzial thickness: 21mm
Cervical Stromal Invasion: Not identified

~ Lymphwvaacular Invasion: Present
Paracorvical Soft Tissue Margin: not applicable

Other Tissues/Organs xnvolved: None

:

- Peritoneal Ascitic Fluid (tram cytology report): Atypical (please see

1

Regional Lymph Node Metastasis:
Pelvic nodes (number of positive/number examined): 0/14
Para-aortic nodes {number of positive/number examined): 0/17
- Distant Metastasis (including abdominal lymph nodes): Cannot be
determined
- Additional Pathologio Findings: Leiomyomas, paratubal cyst in left
Fallopian tube, and Chronic
cervicitis.
~ Ancillary Studies:
ER (immunohistochemicsl stain): 0 l of cells with nuclear staining
PR (immunohistochemical stain): less than 5% of cells with nuclear

staining

other: Immunohistochemicsl stains for P53 is positive in the neoplastic

cells
- AJCC Pathologic Staging: pTlA; N 0; M: not applicable

Commant: Multiple levels examined in pertinent tissue sections.

Representative sections of the case were reviewed with a second pathologist

within the Surgical Pathology Department.

yams-tsans:====u=nnauuu=nam==as::usnsua--azauuaan.uu-nu:s~---u=:a:.----.-

CLINICAL INFORMATION:

@0436

Patient Name:*, * . Med Rec 19: ~
m-
.

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

Endometrial carcinoma. Laparoscopy robotic assisted total hysterectomy,
bilateral aalpingo-oophorcctomy, bilateral paraaortic nodes and pelvic
lymph nodes, left iliac lymph nodes and omentum biopsy.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

1. The specimeg is received fresh for intraoperntive consultation and
labeled cervix. uterus, tubes and ovaries. It consists of a uterus, cervix
with attached bilateral tubes and ovaries. The specimen weighs 276 g with
following measurements: 11.5cm from the fundus to ectocervix; 13cm from the
cornu to cornu and 4.4 cm from anterior to posterior. The right ovary and
fallopian tube measure 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.8cm and 6.0 x 0.6 x 0.5cm
respectively. The left ovary and fallopian tube measure 2.1 x 1.3 x 0.8cm
and 7.0 x 0.6 x 0.5cm respectively. The aerosal surface is tan»red, smooth
and glistening. The cervical canal measures 3.0cm in length and 1.0cm in
diameter. It has tan smooth mucosa. The endometrium cavity measures 5.0cm
in length and 2.8cm from the cornu to cornu. There are three focally
tanwred masses located on the fundus. right posterior wall and anterior
wall. The tumors measure from 1.2 x 1.0cm up to 2.0 x l.5cm. The tumor is
2.0cm from the endocervical os, grossly. 0n sectioning, the tumor shows
approximately 30% myometrium invasion, grossly. There are multiple
subserosal and intramural leiomyoma measuring from 0.8cm up to 4.3cm in
greatest dimension. The masses are tan-white, rubbery and well
circumscribed. No degeneration identified grossly. Both fallopian tubes
have tan red surfaces and with grossly identified pinpoint lumen. Both
ovaries have tan«white surface with grossly unremarkable cutting surface.
There is a 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.4cm of tan~white, rubbery and we11~circumscribed
mass located next to left ovary. Frozen sections were performed.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

APSC: Frozen section from the right posterior endometrium tumor
BESC: Frozen section from anterior cervix

CFSC: Frozen section from the mass next to the left ovary

DFSC: Frozen section from posterior cervix

B: Tumor with deepest invasion from the right posterior wall

F: Tumor from right posterior wall

6: Tumor from right posterior wall (the tumor is entirely submitted)
H: Tumor with deepest invasion from anterior wall

1: Tumor from anterior wall

Tumor from anterior wall (the tumor is entirely submitted)
Tumor from the fundus

Tumor from the fondue {tumor is entirely submitted)

:5er

Lower segment endometrium from anterior wall

30%;0;

Patient Net-am” u . Med Rec 9: ~
m“-
a O “
Requested By:
Ordered By:

Repcrt Name: 2

N: Lower segment endometrium from posterior wall
0: Mass next to left ovary
P: Entire right every
0: Entire right ovary
R: Entire right fallopian tube
S Entire right fallopian tube
T: Entire right ﬁallopian tube
U Entire left ovary
V: Entire left ovary
w: Entire left fallopian tube
x: Entire left fallopian tube
Y: Entire left fallopian tube
z—AR: Leiomycmsta
AB~AD: entire anterior cervix
AE-AG; entire posterior cervix
INTRADPERATIVE CONSULT: Uterusz-high grade sdenocarcinoma with
approximately 50* myometrium invasion.
- Adnexal spindle cell mass, consistent with leiomyoma.
- Cervix with Nabcthian cyst and detached tumor fragment favor carry over.

2. The specimen is received fresh and labeled right paraaortic lymph node.
It consists of e 4.1 x 3.1 x 0.6cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue fragments
with multiple lymph nOdES, up to 3.3 x 0.7 x 0.3cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted as follows:

A: Two intact lymph nodes
B-D: Remainder of the specimen {with intact possible lymph ncdee)

3. The specimen is received fresh and labeled left parasortic lymph node.
It consists DE A 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.7cm piece of fatty tissue with multiple
lymph nodes, up to 1.4 x 1.4 x 0.4cm. The specimen is entirely submitted as
follows:

A: Twc intact lymph nodes
3: Remainder of the specimen (with intact possible lymph nodes)

4. The specimen is received fresh and labeled right pelvic lymph node. It
consists of a 4.8 x 4,8 x 1.3cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue fragments
with multiple lymph nodes. up to 4.0 x 1.2 x 0.3cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted as follows:

Patient Name:~. ~ . Med Rec 9: _

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name: :

A: One intact lymph node

B: Two lymph nodes (the larger one is inked black and bisected and the
other one is not inked and intact)

C: Two lymph nodes {the larger one is inked black and bisected and the
other one is not inked and intact)

D: Three intact lymph nodes

E—J: Remainder of the specimen (with intact possible lymph nodes)

5. The specimen is received fresh and labeled left external iliac. It
consists of a 4.9 x 4.9 x 1.2cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue fragments
with multiple lymph nodes. up to 4.2 x 1.5 x 0.7cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted as follows:

A—B: One sectioned lymph node

C: One bisected lymph node

D: One bisected lymph node

E-G: Remainder of the specimen (with intact possible lymph nodes)

6. The specimen is received fresh and labeled omentum biopsy. It consists
of a 5.3 x 4.2 x 1.0cm piece of omentum. Sectioning reveals lobulated
adipose tissue and fibrovascular tissue. No masses are identified.
Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled A-D.

The following special studies were performed on this case and the

interpretation is incorporated in the diagnostic report above:
leR (FOR DIAGNOSIS), IXPR (FOR DIAGNOSIS), 1x953

'* Electronic Signature '*

*‘Electronically Signed Out by

I certiﬁy that I personally conducted the diagnostic evaluation of the

above speciments) and have rendered the final diagnosie(ee).

Note: The histology, immunochemistry and in situ hybridization components

for this case were performed at

The Attending Pathologist reviewed this case and made the diagnosis.

where applicable. immunohistochemistry and.in situ hybridization tests were

Patient Name“ . Med Rec it: ~
g . u
Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

develcped. and the performance characteristics determined by the

' These tests
have not been cleared or approved by the Us Food and Drug Administration
and the results should be correlated with other clinical and laboratory
data. Appropriate controls were performed for all imunohistochemiatry, in
situ hybridization and histcchemical tests.

Case is

Review-3|

 

éofrﬂ,

