 

 

'uvr\ulvﬁl— r- H! HULUU! Ktt’Uﬁ I '1

' _ DIAGNOSIS“

   

DIAGNOSIS:
Kidney. right. radical nephrectomyn

Renal cell carcinoma. papillary type (type it), grade 3 (Fuhrman), 2 cm in greatest dimensiOn involving the lower pole, conﬁned to the kidney.

and wilhoutirwesion ofpenrenai fat or renal sinus fat.

Ureter. renal artery. and renal vein at surgical margin negative for malignancy.

Negative for lymphatic space invasion.

Non—neoplastic renal parenchyma shows mild arterionephrosclerosis.

No lymph nodes or adrenal gland present.

MCC cancer classiﬁcation: T1 aNXMX.

'CLlNlCAt-INFORMATION.".;.i;i-r.‘."':21 iii-”3.. .. -.:2 ‘ .-‘_.; 3

   

CLINICAL HlSTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
SymptomsrRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMEHS:
Right kidney

   

SPECIMEN DATA:

   

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The spedmen is received in a single formalin ﬁlled containerlabeledwith the patients name '_ ht kidney' and consists of -
right nephredomyspecimen with attadred Gerota's fascia and perinephric fat haying overall dimensions of17.0 x 8.5 x 6.5 cm. Extending from the
hilum is a 4.0 an in length by 0.4 cm in diameter segment of ureterwith adjacent segments of vaqulature. lire specimen is inked. The capsule strips
with ease to reveal an 8.5 x 6.0 1:45 am kidney. The kidney is bivalved to reveal a 20 x 1.9 x 1.9 cin yellow tan hemonhagic. variegated mass arising
from the tor-var pole. This mass approaches to within 3.5 cm of the ureteral margin. 2.0 cm of the renal vein margin and 1.0 an ofthe inked soil tissue
margin. Additionally. this mass abuts, but does not grossly involve the urolhelium. The calms and renal pelvis are lined by pink tan striated uroﬂrelium
with no additional lesions. The cortex is red brown with distinct cortical medullary junction and non-blunted renal papilla. No adlenal gland or hilar

  
 

  

lymph nodes are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in ﬁve cassettes labeled designated as follows; 1—ureteral and

vasculature margins. en—face; 2-inked soft tissue margin. perpendicular”. 3-4nass to renal pa yma a sinus fat; ‘ f mass; 5—

uninvolved parenchyma. Additionally, a yellow and reen cassette are submitted for genomic research each labeled An additional sedion
Wed In cassette 6 labeled — .-

 

”I

 

