uum:mascu-sass-unmana-1ssz7aocm=ss
TCGA-HM~A3JJ-91A-PR R dacted

IlllllllIll|ll|llllHlllIll“llllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬁl lllll
||| llllllllllllll lllllll lllllllllllll ll Hllll
Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllgllllillllillllﬂllﬂll:

  

Date Coll:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
’69 , 0 , 3
. “a. 90’7‘73

SPECIMEN cat/WM: 3 7

A. Uterus, cervix, peritoneum ‘ CLQIQ {VPJ‘ 6:7 -

B. Right pelvic lymph node 5311' X,

C. Right periaortic node ’a‘vg

D. Left pelvic lymph node

B. Left periaortic node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Squamous cell carcinoma cervix, status post leep,
PET/CT.
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Cervical cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labelled

"uterus, cervix, peritoneum." The specimen consists of 317
grams. The specimen is 11. 5 x 9.0 X 6.5 cm and partially covered
with abundant paracervical parametrial tissue. The serosa of the
specimen is pink~tan smooth glistening as is the ectocervix. The
specimen has been previously opened up at the anterior wall showing
a lush smooth endometrium with an average thickness of 0.7 cm. The
endocervix is pink-tan and slightly trabeculated with a large firm
mass measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm on the anterior right side. This
comes within 1.2 cm of the nearest margin which is anterior. The
anterior half is inked blue. The posterior half is inked black.
The myometrium is pink—tan and slightly trabeculated showing a 3.5
intramural fibroid which is white whorled and shows no gross
evidence of hemorrhage or necrosis present. The average thickness
of myometrium is 3.0 cm. Representative sections of the specimen
are submitted as follows:
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-2 — representative section of endometrium; 3 -
right side parametrial tissue; 4 — left side parametrial tissue; 5 —
representative section of fibroid; 6—8 - left paracervical tissue;
9—11 — right paracervical tissue; 12 - lower uterine segment
cross—section; l3 - 9 o‘clock cervix full thickness composite; 15,
16 — 10 o‘clock cervix full thickness composite; l7 - full thickness
slice; 18 and 19 - 12 o'clock full thickness slice; 20, 21 - 2
o‘clock full thickness composite; 22 and 23 — 6 o'clock full
thickness composite. RS~23

Representative sections of the cervix will be submitted following
further fixation.
B. Receiveo fresh labeled "right pelvic lymph node" is a
4.8 x 4.3 x 1.6 cm aggregate of fragmented, soft tan-gold
adipose tissue. Several soft to slightly rubbery tan—pink-red
tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 7.6 cm in
greatest dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in four blocks as labeled. Rs-4.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 ~ Seven whole lymph nodes; 2—4 - largest lymph
node.
C. Received fresh labeled "right periaortic node" are two
slightly rubbery tan—pink tissues in keeping with lymph
nodes averaging 1.2 cm in greatest dimension admixed with a scant

amount of adipose tissue. The specimens are submitted in toto in
one block. AS—l (two whole lymph nodes).

D. Received fresh labeled "left pelvic lymph node" is a

4.8 x 4.4 x 1.6 cm aggregate of soft, lobulated
golden-yellow adipose tissue. Several soft tan—white to tan-pink
tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 2.9 cm in
greatest dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in six blocks. RS-6.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Four whole nodes; 2 - three whole nodes; 3-6 —
one bisected node per cassette.

E. Received fresh labeled "left periaortic node" are two

slightly rubbery tan—pink tissues in keeping with lymph
nodes measuring up to 1.2 cm with a scant amount of associated
adipose tissue. Specimen is entirely submitted in three blocks as
labeled. AS—3.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: Poorly—differentiated, with necrosis.

Primary tumor (pT)TNM(FIGO): 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm mass, extending
into lower uterine segment, and with positive paracervical lymph
nodes.

Greatest depth of invasion: 1.2 cm

Margins of resection: Negative

Vascular invasion: Present, extensive

Regional lymph nodes (pN):
A. Carcinoma present in one right paracervical tissue lymph node
and one posterior (6:00) paracervical tissue lymph node (2/2)
E. Right pelvic nodes: twenty-three negative lymph nodes (0/23)
C. Right periaortic nodes: two negative lymph nodes (0/2)
D. Left pelvic nodes: two of eleven lymph nodes with carcinoma
(2/11)
E. Left periaortic nodes: three negative lymph nodes (0/3)

Other findings: secretory endometrium with polyps; no hyperplasia.
Adenomyosis, leiomyoma.

Comment: portions of this case also reviewed by
5, 4x4

DIAGNOSIS
A. Uterus, hysterectomy:
Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, poorly—differentiated,
almost circumferentially involving the cervix and extending
into the lower uterine segment.
Size: 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm (greatest depth of invasion 1.2
cm).
Two paracervical tissue lymph nodes with metastatic
carcinoma (2/2).
Negative margins of excision.
B. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, regional resection:
Twenty—three negative lymph nodes (0/23).
C. Lymph nodes, right periaortic, regional resection:
Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).
D. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional resection:
Two of eleven lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma (2/11).
E. Lymph nodes, left periaortic, regional resection:
Three negative lymph nodes (0/3).

MD (Electronic Signature)

—-» End Of Report -——
Cvkerla

HIPM

Prior

(as: [I
Iniﬁals

 

