7"“7 Fwy/“gimnmx ﬂea/3
5-11: Hurn‘oﬂl NOS C73- ‘7

 

 

 

X“
q/Jb/u
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
Patient
Name: Accession #:
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Received:
Gender: M Location: Reported:
HCN: Facility:
Ordering
MD:
Copy To:
Specimenlsl Received
1. Lymph-Node: It paratracheal nodes
2. Trachea: Tracheal resection
3. Thyroid: Total thyroidectomy stitch marks rt. superior
Diagnosis
1. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node (left paratracheal node) excisional biopsy
2. lnfiltrative papillary thyroid carcinoma: Trachea excisional biopsy
3. Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant angioinvasive and widely invasive classical variant
with focal dedifferentiation (5%) and tall cell change (10%), involving surgical margins,
6.6 cm, left; and medullary carcinoma, 1.3 cm, right: Thyroid total thyroidectomy
specimen
Synoptic Data
Procedure: Total thyroidectomy
Received: Fresh
Specimen integrity: Intact uum:gnsGE‘SAg-aszzgggiirgsﬁ-ea9Aeacs7a1sd t d
Specimen Size: Right lobe: C ' ' ' ' e ac e
4.1 cm |||II||lIllllllllllllIlllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll
2.3 cm Ill lllll I llllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIll II III
1‘5 cm Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illllll llll
Left lobe:
6.6 cm
4.2 cm
3.5 cm
Isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:
1.2 cm
1.6 cm

0.2 cm

 

Specimen Weight:
Tumor Focaiity:

63.7 g
Multifocal, bilateral
Multifocal, midline (isthmus)

--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR--------------

Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Margins:
Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular invasion:

Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:

Left) lobe
Greatest dimension: 6.6cm
Additional dimension: 4.2 cm
Additional dimension: 3.5 cm
Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)
Classical (papillary) architéCture’ '
Other architecture: with focal solid growth, 5%
Classical cytomorphology
Tall cell cytomorphology
Other: with focal dedifferentiation, 5%
Not applicable
Margin(s) involved by carcinoma
Totally encapsulated
Present, extent widely invasive
Present, focal extent (less than 4 vessels)
Not identified
Present, extensive

--------------- SECONDTUMOR--------—-------
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 0. 1 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant
Papillary carcinoma, microcarCinoma (occult, small or
microscopic) variant
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Histologic Grade: Not applicable '
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph—Vascular invasion:

Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Ancillary Studies:

Not identified

Not identified
Not identified
Not identified
m (multiple primary tumors)
pT4a: Tumor of any size extending beyond the thyroid
capsule to invade subcutaneous soft tissues, larynx, trachea,
esophagus or recurrent laryngeal nerve

lea: Nodal metastases to Level VI (pretracheai,
paratracheal and prelaryngeai/Delphian) lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 1
Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Not identified
Not applicable

Adenomatoid nodule(s) or Nodular follicular disease
Other: Additional papillary microcarcinomas identified
including 0.1 cm isthmus. Medullary carcinoma, 1.3 cm right.
Type: iHC
Results: The medullary carcinoma stains positive for
caicitonin, CEA, chromogranin, and TTF1. it is negative for
thyroglobulin and MlB—1 Li is 2%.

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Procedure:

Total thyroidectomy

Received: Fresh
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
4.1 cm
2.3 cm
1.5 cm
Left lobe:
6.6 cm
4.2 cm
3.5 cm
Isthmus +/. pyramidal lobe:
1.2 cm
1.6 cm
0.2 cm
Specimen Weight: 63.7 9
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR--------------
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 1.3cm
Additional dimension: 1.3 cm
Additional dimension: 1.3 cm
Histologic Type: Medullary carcinoma
Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated
Tumor Capsular invasion: Present, extent minimal

Indeterminate
Not identified
Not identified
Not applicable
pT1b: Tumor more than 1 cm but not more than 2 cm in
greatest dimension, limited to the thyroid

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Not applicable

Other: Multifocal papillary carcinoma including 6.6 cm
dominant nodule in left lobe with focal dedifferentiation
Ancillary Studies: Type: IHC
Results: The medullary carcinoma stains positive for
caicitonin, CEA, chromogranin, and TTF 1. it is negative for
thyroglobulin and MlB Ll is 2%.

Lymph-Vascular invasion:
Perineural Invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):
Additional Pathologic Findings:

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Comment
1. The metastatic lesion in the lymph nodes shows clear architectural and nuclear features of
papillary carcinoma.

2. The infiltrative tumor in the trachea stains positive for thyroglobulin and negative for caicitonin,
chromogranin and CEA, consistent with papillary carcinoma.

3. The dominant 6.6 cm left lobe tumor is an angioinvasive and widely invasive classical variant
papillary carcinoma with focal dedifferentiation and tall cell change involving surgical margins.
The tall cell change represents approximately 10% of the tumor and the very focal
dedlfferentiation represents approximately 5% of this tumor that is characterized by solid growth
pattern and apoptotic change.

The medullary carcinoma is strongly positive for TTF-1, chromogranin-A, calcitonin and CEA, and
is negative for thyroglobulin. MIB-1 Ll is 2%. Since the medullary thyroid carcinoma exhibits local
infiltrative growth pattern in the right lobe and the left lobe is almost entirely replaced by papillary
carcinoma, the assessment of underlying C-cell hyperplasia cannot be made.

Electronically
veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical History
Thyroid carcinoma

Gross Description
1. The Specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "LT paratracheal nodes", consists of a

piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue that measures 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. Within the tissue is a single lymph
node that measures 1.0 cm in maximum dimension. Representative sections, lymph node
submitted in toto:

1A 1 lymph node, bisected

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Tracheal resection", consists of a piece
of cartilaginous tissue that measures 2.0 x 1.9 cm with a maximum thickness of 0.3 cm. There is
a central defect, open to one edge that measures 1.2 cm in diameter. No gross lesion is
identiﬁed.

2A representative sections including edge of defect

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Total thyroidectomy stitch marks R.
superior" consists of a thyroid gland that is received oriented with a suture and weighs 63.7 g.
The right lobe measures 4.1 cm Si x 2.3 cm ML x 1.5 cm AP, the left lobe measures 6.6 cm Si x
4.2 cm ML x 3.5 cm AP and the isthmus measures 1.2 cm Si x 1.6 cm ML x 0.2 cm AP. The
external surfaces have fibrous adhesions and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid
glands or lymph nodes are identified grossly. The right and left lobes each contains one
delineated nodule that measure 1.3 cm Sl x 1.3 cm ML x 1.3 cm AP and 6.6 cm Si x 4.2 cm ML x
3.5 cm AP, respectively. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is red-brown. Sections of both
nodules and normal tissue are stored frozen. Representative sections of the remainder of the
specimen are submitted as follows:

3A-G right lobe, in toto, superior to inferior

3H-l isthmus, in toto

3J-R left lobe, superior to inferior

 

