LIJID:79306E81-1D43-4C8F-9490-F55217ARF2EIEa

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY TCGA- ZH- --A8YS 01A- PR
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIalIIIIted

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII "IIIIIIIIIII

Case Number : II I I IIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Diagnosis:
A: Pericaval mass, biopsy

— Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in one of five lymph nodes (1/5)
(see comment)

- Largest focus measures 1.5 cm in diameter

Extracapsular extension present

I

w

: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy
Cholesterolosis
No carcinoma identified

C: Liver, segments 6, 7, and 8, plus cava and left adrenal gland, en
bloc resection

Tumor histologic type: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, favor
cholangiocarcinoma, mass forming subtype (see comment)

Histologic grade: 3 of 4 (poorly differentiated)

ﬂab?)
Tumor location: Segments 8 and l (VJLQQ1/ﬂyixLAMALMJDOML:E;E:::j? I
I 175252.
Tumor size: 5.8 cm Littk. nihiiﬂtLlfuithL 1L1;

M1" 4.31/4
Focality/extent: Multifocal A) ll

Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: Not identified

Vascular invasion: No definite lymphovascular space invasion
identified; adenocarcinoma invades wall of inferior vena cava

Perineural invasion: Not identified

Capsular invasion: Present, adenocarcinoma invades perihepatic soft
tissues and adrenal gland (designated as left adrenal gland on
specimen container)

Margins:
Inferior vena cava margins: Negative

Hepatic parenchymal margin: Negative, 0.85 cm away at closest
approach
Perihepatic soft tissue margins: Negative

Lymph nodes: See specimen A

Background liver: No steatosis, cholestasis, or ductular reaction
identified

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 le

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:
The frozen section diagnosis for specimen A is confirmed.

H & E stained sections show a poorly differentiated neoplasm with
vast areas of solid growth and focal glandular differentiation.
Immunostains are performed on block C8. The malignant cells are
positive for AEl/AE3 and OSCAR (pancytokeratin stains). CK7 shows
focal positive staining within the malignant cells. CKZO, TTF—l,
CDX—Z, CD56, chromogranin, and synaptophysin are negative.

A mucicarmine stain is negative. Given the tumor location and
absence of known disease outside of the liver, these findings most
likely represent a poorly differentiated intrahepatic
cholangiocarcinoma. Other primary adenocarcinomas with CK7 staining
include lung, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, small bowel, and
gallbladder. Correlation with the clinical and radiologic findings
is suggested.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

An intraoperative consultation is requested by Dr. in OR . at
on

FSAl: Pericaval mass, biopsy

- Carcinoma present; defer to permanent/special stains for final
diagnosis

Drs. at ‘ on
Frozen Section Pathologist: , MD
Clinical History:
—year—old male with a mass abutting the right hepatic vein and

narrowing the IVC by MRI.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section and labeled
"pericaval mass" and is a cylindrical piece of tan firm tissue 3.5

in length x 0.5 cm in diameter with a loosely adherent tan nodular
mass (1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm). The mass is bisected to reveal a tan
gritty cut surface and a representative section is submitted as FSAl
and the remainder is submitted in A2. The tubular fragment is
serially sectioned to reveal a lymph node which is submitted in A3,

Specimen B is labeled "gallbladder" and holds a 9.5 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm
intact gallbladder. The serosa is dark red and glistening. The lumen
is filled with dark red liquid. There are multiple tan granular
tissue fragments, loosely adherent to the mucosa which is tan red
and velvety. The wall is 0.2 cm thick.

Block Summary:

B1 - Cystic duct margin and representative sections of gallbladder
wall to include loosely adherent yellow granules

Tissue remains in formalin.

Specimen C is labeled "segments 6, 7 and 8, cava, left adrenal
gland" and holds an en bloc resection weight 255 grams with an
overall measurement of 15.4 x 8.4 x 5.6 cm. Attached to the deep
edge of the resection is a 4 cm in length x 1.1 cm in diameter large
caliber vessel which has a pink, smooth, luminal surface.

On one side of the vessel, there is a large segment of liver,
roughly 13 x 8.4 x 3.5 cm. The surgical margin of this segment is
inked black. On the opposite side of the large caliber vessel there
is a 4.5 x 2.9 x 2.8 cm segment of liver. The surgical margin of
this segment is inked blue. Adherent to the distal aspect of the
large caliber vessel is a 6.5 x 3.1 x 0.6 cm fragment of yellow
fibrofatty tissue. Within the tissue, there is a portion of adrenal
gland, 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm. The presumed adrenal gland surgical
margin is inked red. The capsule is dark maroon and intact.

Sectioning reveals an approximately 5.8 x 4.0 x 3.8 cm tan firm mass
with ill—defined edges. The mass grossly appears to invade into the
attached adrenal tissue, and abuts but does not grossly appear to
invade into the large caliber vessel. Within the smaller segment of
liver there are two satellite similar appearing lesions, roughly 1
cm from the main mass. The mass comes to within 1.0 cm of the black
inked surgical margin, is 0.6 cm from the blue inked surgical margin
(satellite nodule) and is greater than 1 cm from the proximal and
distal large caliber vessel surgical margin. No additional
abnormalities are noted. The remainder of the parenchyma is dark
brown and unremarkable.

Block Summary:

C1 — Proximal large caliber vessel margin, en face
C2 - Distal large caliber vessel margin, en face

C3-C4 — Mass with respect to larger caliber vessel and adrenal
gland, bisected section

C5 — Additional section of mass, large caliber vessel and adrenal
gland

C6 — Mass with respect to black inked surgical margin
C7 — Mass with respect to intraparenchymal ductal structures

C8 — Satellite lesions with respect to blue inked surgical margin,
perpendicular

C9 — Liver away from mass, larger segment
C10 — Liver away from mass, smaller segment to include capsule

Tissue remains in formalin. Normal and tumor submitted to tissue
procurement.

 

