UUID: 5EW5861- -17CC- 4BFO- A5FA- -BDE6
TCGA-S4-A8RO-9116ReDeADSa

Ill Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll

IllIIHIHIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Sample# I””IllIll”I”IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllll
Gender: Female ECU) 06 (3w 0/
WW» of c 3’

Race: White

 

Pathology Report: _ (W 5/] ;)l 7%

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
Biopsy; jejunal mesenteric mass:
- No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

Cholecystectomy; gallbladder:
- Gallbladder without diagnostic abnormality.

Excision; portion of gastric staple line:
- Portion of gastric antrum with antral gastritis.
- No evidence of tumor.

Whipple procedure; pancreas, duodenum, stomach:
- Invasive moderately differentiated pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
- See Synoptic Report (below).

Excision; gastric staple line:
- Portion of stomach with antral gastritis.
- No evidence of tumor.

PANCREAS (EXOCRINE): Resection

Tumor Size: 4.0 x 2.7 x 2.7 cm

Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade: G2 (moderately differentiated)

Margins: Margins involved by invasive tumor (uncinate & posterior
retroperitoneal surface)

Treatment Effect: No prior treatment

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present

Perineural Invasion: Present

Pathologic Staging (pTNM) - pT3, Nl, R1

Primary Tumor (pT): pT3 (tumor extends beyond the pancreas)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): le (regional lymph node metastasis)
Number examined: Seventeen

Number involved: One (1/17)

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

*Effective Tannery I, llll i) this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for pancreas exocrine of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC)
and the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xxx

D, MD.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD

Electronically Signed Out by H, MD.

Clinical History:
The patient is a year-old female with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, undergoing a
staging Whipple procedure.

Specimens Received:

A: Jejunal mesenteric mass

B: Gallbladder

C: Portion of gastric staple line
D: Pancreas, duodenum, stomach
E: Gastric staple line

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The first container is additionally identiﬁed as, "jejunal mesenteric

mass". Received fresh for intraoperative diagnosis is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm piece
of yellow soft tissue which is entirely frozen and diagnosed as "benign lymph
node" by Dr. [] The entire remaining frozen section is submitted in Al FS.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "gallbladder". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.5 x 3.9 x 2.7 cm gallbladder with green,
glistening serosa and one cauterized aspect. The cystic duct margin is patent
measuring 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is opened revealing black-green
velvety mucosa with approximately 5 mL of black, viscus bile. No stones are
present. Wall thickness measures 0.2 cm. Representative sections including the
cystic duct margin are submitted in B1.

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "portion of gastric

staple line". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented tan
glistening piece of tissue measuring 4.1 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm closed by 2 staple lines
measuring 3.9 and 3.5 cm. The staple lines are and the underlying margin is

inked blue. The specimen is entirely submitted, with the exception of the tissue
within the staples, in Cl-2.

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "stomach pancreas
duodenum". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a Whipple specimen that
consists of a 15.5 cm long segment of duodenum with an internal circumference of
7.0 cm, a 10.5 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm segment of distal stomach, and a 5.2 x 5.0 x 3.6

cm portion of pancreas. The pancreatic neck margin is inked blue, the uncinate
margin is inked black, and the posterior retroperioneal (portal vein groove)

margin is inked red. The margins are trimmed, serially sectioned and submitted.
The common bile duct is patent, with a diameter of 0.9 cm at the resection

margin. Serial sectioning of the pancreas reveals a 4.0 x 2.7 x 2.7 cm ﬁrm,

tan, poorly circumscribed mass. The mass 3extends to within 1.2 cm of the
pancreatic neck margin and grossly abuts the uncinate and portal vein groove
margins. The mass abuts the the duodenal serosa, but there is no gross invasion
into the duodenal wall. The remaining pancreatic parenchyma is yellow-tan,
rubbery and lobulated. The stomach and duodenum reveal grossly unremarkable, tan
mucosa with a uniform 0.4 cm wall thickness. The peripancreatic adipose tissue

is dissected to reveal multiple pink-gray ﬁbrofatty lymph nodes measuring up to
1.4 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

D1: Portal vein

D2: Common bile duct margin

D3: Posterior (portal vein groove) margin, serially sectioned
D4: Uncinate margin, serially sectioned

D5: Neck margin, serially sectioned

D6: Duodenal resection margin

D7: Gastric margin

D8: Mass in relationship to the common bile duct and main pancreatic
duct

D9: Mass and ampulla of Vater

D10: Mass and duodenum

D11-12: Mass and unremarkable pancreas

D13: Uninvolved stomach and duodenum

D14-15: One lymph node bisected, each cassette

D16-21 : Multiple peripancreatic lymph nodes

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, " gastric staple line".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a portion of tan-purple gastric wall
measuring 3.9 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm with a 3.9 cm staple line. The staple line is
removed and the entire remaining tissue is submitted in E1.

XXX
[] M.D.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

Al FS: "Benign lymph node" by Dr. [] on
[]

 

 

