UUID: 709A7AF2- IBFS- AFDE— 5350- B749E7BEC2Fe1d
TCGA- CQ -A4CB- B1A- PR

ted
:am”:::1::.'.':'.'.a'.'.r.m:'.u:m1aam:uu:::iﬁm7:‘"
IIll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

Patient Nam— COPath #:s‘
. . . d.

MRN: Serv1ce: Surgical Serv1c Collecte .
DOB : Visit #: - Resulted:
Gender :' Location:

HCN- Facility:

Ordering MD: -

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
Ice—0-3

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED amalgam“ W adj, anzﬂuw
Lymph— Node: submental ’ Nag {WU/3
. Neck: right neck level I
. Neck: right neck level II SIkL; ¥4mn4ﬁrumdﬁligos c9041?
. Neck: right neck level III
. Neck: left neck level I _AJ
. Neck: left neck level II ﬂéqﬁa.
. Neck: left neck level III
. Soft Tissue: anterior qinqival tissue
Neck: anterior marginal mandibolectomy and floor of mouth
10. Neck: right poterior margin
11. Neck: anterior tongue
12. Neck: left posterior margin

\DmﬂmmIFUJNl-I

DIAGNOSIS

1. "Lymph node submental"

Adipose tissue with no pathologic changes.
No lymph nodes present.

2. Right neck level I.
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma involving one of four lymph nodes
(1/4). ,
a. The involved lymph node measures 0.8 cm.
b. Negative for extracapsular invasion.
Submandibular gland with mild non specific chronic inflammation.

3. Right neck level II.
Six lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/6).

4. Right neck level III.
One lymph node negative for tumor (0/1).

5. Left neck level I.
Six lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/6).

Submandibular gland negative for tumor.

Status: complete Page: 1 of 6

 

Patient Name— Copath # —

MRN: Service: Surgical Servic Collected
DOB: I Visit #: ﬂ Resulted:
Gender 2. Location:
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

6. Left neck level II.
Four lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/4)

7. Left neck level III.
Five lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/5).

8. Anterior gingival tissue.
Negative for tumor.

9. Oral cavity; anterior marginal mandibulectomy and floor of mouth;

resection.
Keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.

a. Maximum tumor dimension 2.0 cm.

b. Tumor thickness 0.9 cm.

c. Positive for perineural invasion.

d. Negative for lymphovascular invasion.

e. Margins negative for tumor. The tumor is close (0.3 cm) to the

anterior gingival mucosal margin. The remaining margins are negative for

tumor (>0.5 cm).
f Sections of bone are pending decalcification. An addendum report

will follow.

10. Right poterior margin.
Negative for tumor.

11. Anterior tongue.
Negative for tumor.

12. Left posterior margin.
Negative for tumor.

SYNOPTIC DATA

Clinical History: No neoadjuvant therapy

Specimen: Floor of mouth, NOS
Received: Fresh

Procedure: Resection

Specimen Integrity: Intact

Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 4.8 cm

Additional dimension: 4.5 cm

Status: complete Page: 2 of 6

 

 
  

Patient Name~ ' Copath #
MRN: _ Service: Surgical Servic Collected:
DOB: - Visit #z _ Resulted:

Gender :‘ ' _ Location :
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD: *

 

Additional dimension: 2.5 cm

Specimen Laterality: Not specified

Tumor Site: Floor of mouth, NOS

Tumor Focality: Single focus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm

Additional dimension: 2.0 cm

Additional dimension: 0.9 cm
Tumor Thickness (pTl and pT2 tumors):

Tumor thickness: 0.9 mm

Measured from ulcerated surface

Tumor Description: Ulcerated

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Histologic Grade: 62: Moderately differentiated
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma

Distance from closest margin: 0.3 cm

Margin(s): anterior gingival mucosa
margin

Margin status for carcinoma in situ
is not applicable

Treatment Effect: Not identified
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Perineural Invasion: Present

Lymph Nodes, Extranodal Extension: Not identified
TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pTl: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest

dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): le: Metastasis in a single
ipsilateral lymph node, 3 cm or less in greatest dimension

Number of regional lymph nodes
examined: 26

Number of regional lymph nodes
involved: 1 '

Size (greatest dimension) of the
largest positive lymph node: 1.6 cm
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

___—._...-.—-......—.—_._.__..______—_-.-—-————._—_—‘-—————-——-——.~_.——-.—

Status: complete Page: 3 of 6

 

Patient Name— Copath #
MRN: = Service: Surgical Servic Collected:

DOB: Visit #: - Resulted:
Gender, Location: ‘
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient' 5 name and as "submental".
It consists of one piece of adipose tissue measuring 2. 6 x 1 x 0.1 cm.
No lymph nodes are identified.

1A specimen in toto

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level
1". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4 x 3 x

2cm. The submandibular gland is unremarkable and measures 3 5 x 2 x 2
cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.8 to 1. 4 cm are identified.
Representative sections are submitted.

2A submandibular gland

23 multiple lymph nodes

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and "right neck level

2". It consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 1.7
x 1.4 cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.7 to 1.2 cm are
identified.

3A multiple lymph nodes

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level’
3". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 6 x 3 x 1.2
cm. One lymph node measuring 0.5 cm is identified.

4A one lymph node bisected

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and "left neck level
1". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4 x 3 x 1.3
cm. The submandibular gland is unremarkable and measures 3.9 x 2.4 x 1
cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.6 cm are identified.

5A submandibular gland

SB multiple lymph nodes

5C 1 lymph node bisected

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and "left neck level

Status: complete Page: 4 of 6

 

 

Patient Name :_ Copath #
MRN: Service: Sur ical Servic Collected:
DOB: Visit: :1: h Resulted:
Gender Location:
HC'N: Facility:
ordering MD:—
2". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 2.4 x

1.6 cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 cm are identified.

6A multiple lymph nodes

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and "left neck level
3". It consists of portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 7 x 3 x 1
cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 0.8 cm are identified.

7A multiple lymph nodes

7B one lymph node

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "anterior
gingival tissue“. It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 0.6 x
0.3 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
8A frozen section control

9. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "anterior
marginal mandibulectomy and floor of mouth". It consists of a mandible
with floor of mouth resection with overall dimensions of 2.5 AP x 4.5 SI
x 4.8 ML cm. There is an ulcerated tumor arising in the floor of mouth.
The tumor measures 2.0 AP x 0.9 SI x 2.0 ML cm. There is grossly no
involvement of bone by the tumour. The tumor is located at 0.3 cm from
the closest anterior gingiva margin. The distance to the remaining
margins are: 0.6 cm from the posterior floor of mouth margin; 0.8 cm
from the right mucosal floor of mouth margin; 1.2 cm from the left
mucosal floor mouth margin; and 1.7 cm from the deep inferior margin.
Representative sections are submitted.

9A frozen section posterior muscle/floor of mouth margin
9B anterior gingiva mucosal margin

9C right floor of mouth mucosal margin

9D left floor of mouth mucosal margin

9E deep inferior margin

9F posterior floor of mouth margin

9G-9H tumor

91 right mandible resection margin (decalcification)

9J left mandible resection margin (decalcification)

9K midsection mandible and tumor (decalcification)

10. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right
posterior margin". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 3 x 0.4
x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

Status: complete Page: 5 of 6

 

Patient Name :— Copath #—

MRN: ' Service: Sur ical Servic Collected:
DOB: Visit #: h Resulted:
er.

 
 

Gend Location:
HCN: Facility:
Ordering MD:

 

10A frozen section control

11. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “anterior

tongue". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 2.8 x 0.2 x 0.2
cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
11A frozen section control

12. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "left
posterior margin". It consists of a fragment of tiSSue measuring 4 x 0.2
x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

12A frozen section control

QUICK, SECTION
8. Anterior gingival tissue:
Negative for carcinoma

9. Anterior mandibulectomy:
Posterior muscle margin negative for carcinoma on
microscopic assessment

10.Right posterior margin:
Negative for carcinoma

11. Anterior tongue:
Negative for carcinoma

12. Left posterior margin:
Negative for carcinoma

Status: complete

macroscopic and

Page:

6 of 6

 

wiry Tamar Site Discrepancy
‘rioa Mans—"LEWIEW
)ual/Svnrhmnous Prumaw NW »

212* V9: N3
)iagnusis Diacnmanzy \7‘_~
M

 

 

Eﬂi‘im’ﬂ‘ “MED / msquam m ‘ "“‘l
levlewer Inilials .e Revmm """ w ~ l
' _._ I

 

1‘ I “I

