{W

  
 
 

‘° /CA—o ,3 ,
WWW, WMHK/ N”; «7350773
Jim W 6554/ 5/V/n/u/

 

  
 

  
  

Patient Name:

Med Rec No: iient: Taken: 5":
DOB: Location: h Received:

e no Reported:
physician“); U"

Gender:

CC:

UUID:MBFFBFB- -
EASBC 484E-A2SD-82F559E1E4CS

mmumiiiﬁiﬁiiiiiiiiiﬁiiiiimmmu ”we”
ll”{millililllliHillllllililllllllllllHllllllllllli'Il'lI'i'lll'lul'llm
lilililllllillllllllllllllllliliillllilillilllllilllll

Accession it: -

 

Surgical Pathology Report

 

  

History/Clinical Dx: Endometrial cancer, pelvic organ prolapse

Postoperative Dx: Same, pending pathology examination

Specimengs) Received:

A: Uterus. cervix. tubes and ovaries
B: Let! pelvic lymph nodes

' 'C:'L‘eft' aortic" lymph nodes ‘ ' '

D: Right pelvic lymph nodes

E: Right caval lymph nodes

 

A. Uterus, cervix tubes and ovaries:

 
  

WELL-DIFEEEENTIATED ENDOMETRIAL ADENOCARCINOMA, ENDOMETRIOID TYPE WITH
MUCINOUS DIFFERENTIATION (FIGO grade 1)

_ Type of specimen: Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingoopherectomy

9'".

{aaagmerium

3.51m

Histologlc type: Endblnetriold type with mucinous differentiation

Histologic grade: Well differentiated (FlGO grade 1)

Depth of myometrial invasion: Less than 1 mm out of a 2.5 cm myometrial thickness

Cervical involvement: Not involved

Vaglnai involvement: Vaginal cuff not involved

Adnexai involvement: Not involved

Parametrial lnvolement: Not involved

Invasion of contiguous structures: Not involved

Lymphovascular invasion: None identiﬁed

Perineural invasion: None identiﬁed

Resection margins: Free of carcinoma

Lymph node involvement: 35 lymph nodes free of metastatic tumor (see parts 8 through E)

Peritoneal cytology: Negative for malignancy "

Other findings: 1. Cervix with moderate to severe squamous dysplasia (CIN ll-lll); vaginal cuff
margin free of dysplasia

2. Cervical and vaginal hyperkeratosis

3. Myometrial adenomyosis and leiomyoma

 

 

Warsaw
Tm Howey; 1min“, be neg"
J .Jtetl n» amend It! Irv U- L

,y . '0"; . t :

  
 
 

 

4'3‘5

 

edical Director
Page i of 3

 

— Surgical Pathology Report :

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes:
15 lymph nodes free’ of metastatic tumor

  

C. Left aortic lymph nodes" ~
Benign ﬁbroadipose and muscular tissue; no lymphoid ti5sue identiﬁed

D. Right pelVic lymph nodes:
18 lymph nodes free of metastatic tumor

E. Right caval lymph nodes:
2 lymph nodes free of metastatic tumor

Comments: :
has reviewed this case and concurs.

 

Gross Description

A. Received in formalin labeled — uterus. cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries" is a previously opened utems and cervix
with attached right and left fallopian tubes and ovaries. 336.0 grams. The uterus is symmetrical in conﬁguration, 11.0 cm in
length. 7.5 cm in broadest extent. and up to 5.5 cm anterior-posteriorly. The serosa is pink-tan. smooth and glistening. The
cervix with attached vaginal cuff is 4.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm. and appears grossly normal. A portion of the cervix has been removed
intraoperatively and submitted for cancer research. Cross sectioning reveals a thin pink, slightly hemorrhagic endomelrium.

.;0.1 cm in greatest thickness. A portion of the endometrium has been removed intraoperatively and submitted for cancer
research. Situated along the posterior aspect of the endometrial canal is a friable, red—tan polypoid lesion. 3.5 x 3.5 cm
across. The cut surface of the tumor reveals it to be grossly conﬁned to the endometrium. At this level, the myometrium is at
least 2.5 cm in thickness. There is an area of circumscribed nodularlty in the uterine wail, grossly consistent with a lelomyoma
of 1.0 cm. The right and left fallopian tubes are unremarkable. The right and left ovaries are each approximately 2.0 x 1.5 x
1.0 cm, and appear grossly normal. A portion of each ovary has been removed intraoperatively and submitted for cancer
research. Representative sections, blocks A1-A13.

._'

 

KEY TO CASSETTES:

A1 -A2 - Cervix

A3 - Upper cervical canal
A4~A8 - Tumor

A9 — Right adnexa

A10 - Left adnexa

A1 1 ~ Right parametrium
A12 - Left parametrium
A1 3 - Fibroid

A14~A1 5 - Additional cervical sections
A16 - Vaginal cuff margin

B. Received in formalin labeled - left pelvic lymph node” is a fragment of yellow~tan fatty soft tissue. 18.0 grams. 5.0 x
4.0 x 3.0 cm. By palpation and cross sectioning, there are multiple pink~tan rubbery lymphoid nodules, 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen in toto. blocks 81-86.

KEY TO CASSETTES:

Bl - Two lymph nodes

82 - Two lymph nodes

83 - Two lymph nodes
84-86 - Remainder of sample

C. Received in formalin labeled -ieft aortic lymph node” is a fragment of yellow—tan fatty soft tissue, <1.0 grams. 1.0 x
0.5 x 0.5 cm. By palpation and cross sectioning, no lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed. The specimen in totc. block C.

D. Received in formalin labeled *right pelvic lymph node” is a fragment of yellow-tan fatty soft tissue. 16.0 grams. 4.5
x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. By palpation an cross sectioning. there are multiple pink-tan rubbery lymphoid nodules. 2.0 cm in greatest

dimension. The specimen in toto. blocks D1-D4.

 

 

 

KEY TO CASSETTES:

01 - Two lymph nodes

02 - Three lymph nodes
03-04 - Remainder of sample

 

E. Received in formalin labeled right cavai lymph node“ is a fragment of yellow-tan fatty soft tissue, 3.0 grams. 2.0 x
1.5 x 1.0 cm. By palpation an cross sectioning, there are multiple pink~tan rubbery lymphoid nodules, 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen in tolo. blocks E1-E2.

KEY TO CASSETTES:
E1 - Two lymph nodes
E2 - Remainder of sample

Microscopic Description

A,~E. The microscopic findings support the above diagnoses.

 

 

 

     

Addendum -

 

 

   

DOB: Location: Received:

Gender: Reported:
Physicien(s):

Patient Name: Accession it: h
Med. Rec. #2 Client: - Taken:

Specimenis) Regelyeg:

A: Utems, cervix. tubes and ovaries
B: Left pelvic lymph nodes

0: Left aortic lymph nodes

D: Right pelvic lymph nodes

E: Right caval lymph nodes

Date Ordered:
Status: Signed Out

Addendum Comment
The mucinous differentiation involves less than 10% of the endometrial tumor.

“Electronically Signed Out'"

 

W

The 1010th SI-WMM nix-[rub him-om- mmmibod‘w undin div-thing the law- report: "trauma mwwﬂtﬂm chmu‘oﬁarldmudﬂ
hummucdmwmwbylhluamwmmm TNFDAMIMIWWIruu-rmorm-ukmmuem Tthkuualwamlma nsttummumomawwm
iaMr'ThlllaowamyhunﬂdmmomumMuhammad:d‘imrcldlllerMWWmMWIM-legr- - -~ - - » ---- -~~ - ~ .._ ~ - .. ..

 

