 

‘ ' 'a nosis & Histo :
iih right renal mass.
Sgecimens Submitted:
1: Kidney, right; radical oephreotomy

2: Lymph nodes. paracaval; excision
3: Right adrenal and sopra—hylar lymph nodes; adrenaleotomy and lymphadenectomy I

 

 

AMENDED DIAGNOSIS:

1. Kidney, right; radical nephreotomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade liiIiV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 5.5 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
involves renal sinus fat

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed
Tumor involves a large vein in the ranaE sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non~Neopiastlc Kidney:
Chronic inﬂammation and focal ﬁbrosis

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomaioncocyloma:
pT3b Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s} or vena cava below the diaphragm

 

Page 1 01'4

 

SURGECAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

--

2. Lymph nodes. paracaval; excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examinedz‘l

3. Right adrenal and stipra-hilarlymph nodes; adrenatectomy and tymphadenectomy -
Adrenal gland; no tumor identiﬁed
No tymph nodes identiﬁed within ﬁbroadipose tissue

Note:
This document rapresants an amended version of the surgical pathology report originally issued on- That report is
superseded by the present document. The amendment consists of the fotlowing change:

 

QEGENAL REPORT:
Specimen Submitted:
1: Kidney. right: partial nephrectomy

Final Diagnosis:
1: Kidney. right; partial nephractomy

AMENDED REPORT:
Specimen Submitted:
1: Kidney, right; radical nephrectomy

Final Diagnosis:
1: Kidney. right; radical nephrectomy

The responsible clinician has been notiﬁed.

 

 

 

Gross Description:

 

t). The specimen is received fresh labeled "right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels and
perinephrlc tat weighing 530 g in total. The kidney measures 10,9 x 5.4 x 4.? cm. The attached ureter measures 4 cm in length
and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.5 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter
margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenat gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is inked black and bivalvad to reveal lobulaled.
well deﬁned tumor with an oranger‘tan and focally hemorrhagic appearance. measuring 5.5 x 4.7 x 4.3 cm . located in the mid and
lowar pote of the kidney. The tumor does not grossly extend to the inked margin, and is located at 0,4 cm from the inked surface.
Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma. with a well-defined coriico-medullaryjunction. The
cortex measures 2.2 cm and the calyces appear normal. Possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric fat, Representative
sections are submitted for- and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

UVM —— ureteral and vessel margins

T» tumor

THF»- tumor with hitar fat

t'SF -- tumor with sinus lat

TK —- tumor with adjacent kidney

RP —- renal pelvis representative sections
K ~- representative sections kidney

LNN possible lymph node -

2). The specimen is recaivad in formalin, labeled "paracavat lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.3 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted.

 

Page 2 of 4

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Summary of sections:
LN .. lymph nodes

BLN~- bisected lymph nodes _

3). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “right adrenal and suprairiiar lymph nodes” and consists of a nodular,adrenal
gland measuring 3.5 x 2.8 and 1.5 centimeters with attached ﬁbroadipcse tissue. Cut section of the gland reveals a
tretell-delineated orange/tan nodular appearance with areas of hemorrhage. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the attached soft
trssuas. Representative sections oftne adrenal gland and possible lymph nodes are submitted for permanent section.

Summary of sections:
A-adrenal gland
Ln-possible lymph nodes

Summary of Sections:
Part1: Kidney, right; radical nephrectomy

Block Sect‘. Site PCs
l<
inn
FP

t

thf
tk
tat
uvm

AAAAA4§A
Jﬁggﬁghﬁm

Part 2: Lymph nodes. paracaval; excision

Block Sect. Site P03
1 bin 1
2 in 2

Part 3: Right adrenal and supra-hylar lymph nodes; adrenalectomy and lymphadenectomy -

Block Sect. Site P05
3 a 3

‘i in t
Amendments

 

Original Diagnosis:
1. Kidney, right; partial nephrectomy:

Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma — Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade ill/iv

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 5.5 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
involves renal sinus fat

Page 3 of 4

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Renal Vein lnvesion:
Not identiﬁed
Tumor involves a targe vein in the renal sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Chronic inﬂammation and focal ﬁbrosis

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

Staging for renal cell carcinomeioncocytome:
pTSb Tumor grossly extends into the renet vein(s) or vans cave below the diaphragm

2. Lymph nodes, parecevei; eXCision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examine-2&1

4. Right adrenal and supra-hilar lymph nodes; adrenalectomy and lymphadenectomy -

Adrenal gland; no tumor identiﬁed
No lymph nodes identiﬁed within ﬁbroedipose tissue

 

 

 

Page 4 of4

END OF REPORT

