UUID:1C768358-4A3C-4F5C-9E17-828102375885
TCGA—BA-A4II-91A-PR Redacted

IHlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂllllllllllllll
llHllHlllllNlllllNIIHININllllHlllllllllllllllllllllll
Ill lllllllll |||||||||||I|l|ll||||| II II "II” lllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number:

Diagnosis:
A: Pharyngeal wall lesion, posterior, partial pharyngectomy

Tumor histologic type/subtype: squamous cell carcinoma, well
differentiated

/¢A«o/}
Primar site: oro har nx
y p y Wm, WM,N05 yaw/3
Size: 2.2 cm 5310;01q0hmﬁww’ﬁmg 540,9

Extent of invasion:

Angiolymphatic invasion: not identified
Perineural Invasion: not identified
Bone invasion: not identified

4342/1?

Carcinoma in situ: present, 0.2 cm from the green superior inked
margin

Surgical Margins: Free of tumor: invasive carcinoma comes to

within 0.6 cm of the black medial margin, 0.5 cm of the green
superior margin, 0.8 cm from the lateral margin, and grossly

<0.7 cm from the yellow inferior margin.

AJcc PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2 pNx

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Soft tissue, lateral margin, biopsy
- Benign squamous mucosa and lymphoid tissue

C: Soft tissue, anterior floor of mouth lesion, biopsy
— Benign squamous mucosa

D: Soft tissue, floor of mouth lesion, biopsy
— Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, well differentiated
— Carcinoma extends to inked cauterized margins

E: Soft tissue, posterior margin, floor of mouth lesion, biopsy
— Invasive squamous cell carcinoma with marked cautery artifact

F: Soft tissue, gingiva, biopsy
— Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, well differentiated

Clinical History:
—year—old male with throat cancer who presents for radical
pharyngectomy, excision of floor of mouth lesion.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "posterior pharyngeal wall
lesion, stitch is lateral" and holds a roughly rectangular
shaped piece of tan/pink mucosa oriented as stated above. The
specimen is 3.3 cm from superior to inferior, 2.7 cm from
lateral to medial, and up to 1.3 cm from superficial to deep.
The margins are differentially inked lateral edge blue, superior
edge green, inferior edge yellow, and medial and deep margins,
black. On the surface there is a 2.2 x 2.1 cm tan raised soft
somewhat circumscribed lesion. The lesion comes to within 0.5 cm
of the black inked medial margin, green inked superior margin,
and is 0.3 cm from the blue inked lateral margin, and is >0.7 cm
from the yellow inked inferior margin. The specimen is sectioned
from lateral towards medial to reveal that the lesion extends
0.3 cm into the underlying soft tissue, and to within 0.6 cm of
the black inked deep margin.

Block Summary:

Al—AZ — Lateral margin, perpendicular

A3~A7 — Sequential sections moving from lateral towards medial
to include superior, inferior, and deep margins, perpendicular
A8 - Medial edge of specimen, en face,

Tumor is submitted to tissue procurement.

Container B is additionally labeled "lateral margin." It holds a
piece of tan glistening mucosa, 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The surgical
margin is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned
perpendicular to the black inked surface and submitted in block
Bl,

Container C is additionally labeled "anterior margin, floor of
mouth lesion." It holds a 4 x 4 x 4 mm tan soft tissue fragment;
block Cl,

Container D is additionally labeled "floor of mouth lesion." It
holds a 1.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm tan/red soft tissue fragment. One
surface is cauterized and inked black. The specimen is sectioned
perpendicular to the black inked surface and submitted in block
D1,

Container E is additionally labeled "posterior margin, floor of
mouth lesion." It holds a 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment. One edge is cauterized and inked black. The specimen

is sectioned perpendicular to the black inked edge and submitted
in block E1,

Container F is additionally labeled "gingiva." It holds three
pieces of tan soft tissue, 6 x 5 x 4 mm in aggregate. (Block Fl,

 

