 
  
   

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - M.) LUNG, RIGHT, LYMPH NODES, N4R, N4R#2, N4R#3, N10R, N7, N10L, N4L, N2R,
N7, N7#2, LYMPH NODE BIOPSIES AND RESECTIONS, WEDGE RESECTIONS (X2),
AND COMPLETION PNEUMONECTOMY:
- Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features, well differentiated.
- Two foci in right lower lobe, 1.5 cm in greatest dimension each.
- One focus in right upper lobe, 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
- Visceral pleural invasion present, tumor does not extend to pleural surface.
- Surgical margins negative.
- Twenty-two lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0122).
- See comment.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (Right lower lobe):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3(2 tumor foci).

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.

Distant metastasis: NIA.

Pathologic stage: IIB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Margin status: R0, negative.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (Right upper lobe):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT2a.

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.

Distant metastasis: NIA.

Pathologic stage: IB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Margin status: R0, negative.

COMMENT: Sections show three histologically similar foci of adenocarcinoma with
with areas of deﬁnitive invasion and areas of a mucinous bronchioloalveolar pattern.
- - n . . ._ - -iffusel stron - Iy positive for GK? and show patchy positivity for

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

egative for CK20, TTF-1, and Napsin-A. There are three foci
fied (two in the right lower lobe and one in the right upper

sis includes adenocarcinoma of lung primary versus

metastatic adenocarcinoma of gastrointestinal primary (upper GI, pancreato-biliary
and colon). Lung primary adenocarcinomas are typically positive for CK7, TTF—1 and
Napsin-A and negative for CDX2, villin and CK20, however, lung primary
adenocarcinomas with mucinous differentiation can show patchy positivity for CDX2.
Three tumor foci are seen in the lung, which can be seen in the setting of metastatic

disease and a multifocal lung primary. The diffusely, strongly positive 0K7, patchy
CK20, and the presence of a bronchioloalveolar growth

9 primary origin, therefore, the patient is staged accordingly,
rcinoma cannot be completely
' negative lymph

CDX2 and villin and are n
of adenocarcinoma identi
lobe). The differential diagno

however, metastat'
excluded. Because the patien
nodes and associated bronchioloa

right lower lobe are staged separately.

 

 

 

 

Procedure:

Specimen type:

Specimen laterality:
Specimen integrity:

Tumor Features:
Tumor site:

Tumor size:

Tumor focallty:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:
Lymphovascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Visceral pleural invasion:

Tumor extension into extra—pulmonary structures:
Treatment effect:

Lymph Nodes:

Margin Evaluation:
Distance to closest margin:
Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymal margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:
Other margins:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:
Primary tumor (pT):

Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Margin status (R):
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Comment:

Multiple lymph node biopsies and resections,
right upper lobe and right lower lobe
lobectomies, and right lung resection.

resections.
Right.
Intact.

Right upper lobe, right lower lobe.

Multifocal, Right upper lobe: 2.0; right lower lobe
two foci: 1.5 and 1.5 cm.

Multifocal.

Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features.
Well differentiated (G1).

Not identiﬁed.

Not identiﬁed.

PL1, tumor extends into visceral pleura but does
not extend to pleural surface (seen in both the
right upper lobe and right lower lobe.

Not identiﬁed.
NIA.

Twenty-two lymph nodes, no tumor seen.

Parietal pleura at 0.1 cm.
Greater than 2 cm.
Greater than 2 cm.
Greater than 2 cm.

0.1 cm.

NIA.

NIA.

Right lower lobe/Right upper lobe.

Right lower lobe pT3; Right upper lobe pTZa.
pNO.

NIA.
R0, negative.
Right lower lobe IIB; Right upper lobe lB.

Emphysematous changes.

N/A.

 

 

Clinical HistoryIOgerative Dx:

Right lung cancer.

lntraoperative Diagnosis:

A. (FSA) Lymph node, N4R excision:
- Benign lymph node.

B. (FSB) Lymph node, MR #2, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

G. (F139) L—‘J'I‘I'IF-I—I Had-an, ILJ-‘Iﬁﬂ ﬁuﬁ:¢=:nﬁ-

- Benign lymph node.

D. (FSD) Lymph node, N7, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

E. (FSE) Lymph node. N10L, excision:
—- Benign lymph node.

F. (FSF) Lymph node, N4L, excision:
- Benin l mph node.

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

G. (FSG) Lymph node, N2R, excision:
- Benign lymph node.

H. (FSH1-2) Lung, right lower lobe, resection:
- Adenocarcinoma (two nodules).

l. (FSI) Lung, right lung upper lobe, resection:
- Adenocarcincma.

J. (FSJ) Lung, right, resection:
- Bronchial margins free of tumor.

   

Gross Description:
A. Part A is labeled - Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a single speckled,

darkened gray lymph node candidate, 7 x 5 x 5 mm. The specimen is bisected and submitted for frozen
section analysis. The residual frozen tissue is submitted for permanent sections in A1

 

B. Part B is labeled-. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a yellow-tan
portion of fatty soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm. Examination reveals a 6 x 5 x 4 mm lymph node

candidate. The lymph node candidate is entirely submitted for frozen section analysis with the residual
frozen tissue submitted in B1 for permanent sections. The remaining fragments submitted for routine

histology in 32.

 

C Part C is labeled as- Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a rubbery,

light pink to gray lymph node candidate, 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned and
entirely sited for frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen tissue submitted in C1 for permanent

sections.

 

D: Part D is labeled -. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a multilobular light
plnk to darkened gray portion of soft tissue, 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned
demonstrating possible multiple lymph node candidates up to 0.6 cm. The tissue is entirely submitted for

frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen tissue submitted in D1 for permanent sections

 

E. Part E is labeled -. Initially received for frozen section is a light tan to speckled darkened gray
lymph node candidate, 13 x 9 x 7 mm. The lymph node is trisected and entirely submitted for frozen

section analysis with the residual frozen tissue submitted in E1 -

F- Part F is labeled a -. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a single fatty

yellow to darkened gray lymph node candidate, 5 x 4 x 3 mm. The lymph node is entirely submitted for
frozen section analysrs wrth the residual frozen tissue submitted in F1 for permanent sections

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

G. Part G is labeled-Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a lobular
fragment of yellow-tan fatty soft tissue with speckled darkened gray changes, 8 x 6 x 5 mm. The lymph
node is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section analysis with the residual frozen tissue submitted

in G1 for permanent sections.

 

H. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen section analysis is a wedge of lung, 13.5 x 4 x 3.5 cm and
25 grams. The pleura is glistening, light pink to deep purple with two dimpled areas with underlying
palpable density. The surface of both sites are now marked blue and black, respectively to larger and
smaller nodules. The surgical margin of resection is closed by numerous surgical staples, involving

approximately 0.6 cm of the lu ng.

Sectioning through the aforementioned sites of palpable density, reveals two irregular, however, grossly
well-demarcated, light gray tumor nodules, 1.5 cm each. Both lesions abut the aforementioned, dimpled
pleura, and the smaller lesion grossly approaches within 0.8 cm of the surgical margin. The larger lesion
grossly approaching within 1.2 cm of the surgical margin. Representative section of each lesion is
submitted for frozen section analysis (chuck/block) with the residual frozen tissue submitted in H1 for
permanent sections. Representative portion of the larger tumor is submitted for Oncogenotyping studies

with additional representation of paranormal and normal lung tissue also submitted.

The remaining cut sections of the wedge of lung demonstrates spongy, light pink to slightly consolidated
parenchyma without additional nod ularity. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic

evaluation.

Cassette summary: H1) frozen section. both smaller and larger nodules represented, H2-H3) larger nodule,
overlying pleura represented. four pieces, H4) margin previously involved with surgical staples adjacent to
the tumor, trimmed and submitted on face, H5-H6) smaller nodule including overlying pleura represented,

four pieces, H7) surgical marrin formally involved with surgical margins adjacent to small lesion, trimmed

   

and submitted en face

I. Part I is labeled right lung upper lobe wedge resection. Initially received in the fresh state for frozen
section analysis is a wedge of lung, 6.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm and 7 grams. The overlying pleura is glistening,
light tan to purple-red with a slightly dimpled area with underlying palpable mass. Initial sectioning
reveals an irregular, however, grossly well-demarcated tumor nodule measuring up to 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm.

Representative section is submitted for frozen section analysis with the residual frozen tissue submitted in
I1 for permanent sections. Following initial sectioning, the pleura overlying the tumor is marked blue. The

surgical margin adjacent to the tumor is involved with numerous surgical staples (0.6 cm), is now trimmed,
and the resolving margin is marked black. The remaining cut sections of the wedge demonstrates a
spongy, light pink and tan parenchyma without additional discrete nodularity. Representative sections are

submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: l1) frozen section of tumor, l2-l3) additional representation of tumor, ﬁve pieces, l4)
uninvolved lung tissue represented.

 

J. Part J designated right lung, frozen section bronchial margin. Initially received in afresh state for frozen
section analysis is a right pneumonectomy, 13.7 x 16.3 x 4.2 cm, and 370 grams. The overlying pleura is

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

glistening with a variegated light pinkto purple and speckled darken gray appearance. The upper and
lower lobes demonstrating two lines of surgical staples, 9.6 cm and 12.3 cm, respectively, corresponding to
the former wedge resections or frozen section analysis. A palpable mass is not appreciated. The central
main bronchial margin is 2.3 cm in diameter and extends out to 2.0 cm; the bronchial margin associated

with the upper lobe is 2.0 cm in diameter and extending out to 0.9 cm. The upper and lower main lobar
tracts are partially occluded with hemorrhagic mucin plug, however, no gross tumor involvement is

appreciated.

The bronchial margins is now trimmed and submitted for frozen section analysis, with the residual frozen
tissue submitted in J1 for permanent sections. Sectioning through the remainder of the lung demonstrates

partially consolidated, deep red, hemorrhagic lung parenchyma, with peripheral spongy, light pink and
tan tissue. The lobar and gross segmental tracts are free of tumor involvement. No additional discrete

nodularity appreciated. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: J1) bronchial margins, frozen section, J2) vascular surgical margins trimmed and
submitted, J3) ﬁve hilar lymph node candidates, peribronchial, J4-J5) upper lobe represented, three

pieces, J6-J7) lower lobe represented, three pieces

 

K. Part K is labeled-. Received in formalin are multiple lobular and tattered fragments of fatty soft
tissue including lymph node candidacy, measuring in aggregate 5.5 x 2.3 x 1.1 cm. Examination reveals

six lymph node candidates ranging from 5 x 3 mm to 17 x 13 mm each. The lymph node tissue
demonstrates softened light tan to speckled dark gray appearance. The lymph node tissue is entirely

submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: K1) largest | m h node, sectioned and submitted, K2) two lymph node candidates. K3)
three lymph node candidates. i)

 

L. Part L is labele- Received in formalin are two tattered fragments of light pink to darkened gray
soft tissue including lymph node candidacy, measun’ng in aggregate 1.3 x 1.3 x 0.7 cm. Examination

reveals a tattered lymph nod idate measuring up to 7 mm. The Specimen is entirely submitted for
microscopic evaluation in L1.

M. Part M is labelec-Received in formalin is a single tattered, darkened gray anthracotic lymph node
candidate, 11 x 7 x 5 mm. Th 'men fragments easily upon manipulation and is entirely submitted for

microscopic evaluation in M1 .

 
 
 
 
 

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscOpic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis

rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

6. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microsc0pic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

C. Microscopic'sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sectlons show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

 

     

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

D. Microscomc sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show fragments of lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

G. Microswpic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Sections show one lymph node with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

H. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. lmmunohistochemlstry was performed with adequate control for CK7, CK20, CK576, p63, CDX2,
ER, Pox-8, Napsin-A, TTF-1, Villln and 8—100. The tumor cells stain as follows:

Tumor cells positive: CK7, villin (patchY). CDX2 (patchy)
Tumor cells negative: CK20, 8—100, Napsin-A. TTF-1. CK5/6, FAX-8, p63-

 

l. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

J. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Six lymph nodes are seen with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

K. Mlcroscooic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Seven lymph nodes are seen with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

L. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscomc ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. One lymph node is seen with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed-

M. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. One lymph node is seen with no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed.

 

