   

CGA — DU - 5874

  
 

Received:
Reported:

 

CLInICAL HISTORY
on' ' -
'imaging has a left frontal, 4 cm slightly enhancing tumor.

' ioPERATIVE DIAGNOSES

Left frontal brain lesion
Operation/Specimen:

A: Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy

B: Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy
C:_Left frontal tumor, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICALLDIAGNOSIS:

-A{“§, and C. Brain, left frontal, excisional biopsies:
llgl-Oligodendroglioma, with atypical features.

MlB—l proliferation index: 18%.

See Microscopy Desoription and Comment.

COMMENT

The specimens contain portions of cerebrum that are lightly to heavily
infiltrated by'a neoplastic proliferation of glial cells that have an
oligodendroglial phenotype. There is only slight nuclear
pleomcrphism, rarely .

'one mitotic ﬁigure, but a high MIB—l proliferation index of about 18%
in focal - '

-more cellular areas. _There is occasionally endothelial hyperplasia,
but no . p I I

microvascular cellular proliferation. There is not necrosis.

The neoplasm is an oligodendroglioma with low histological grade
features.- 5 . -

However, the focal endothelial hyperplasia and elevated proliferation
index

may.portend enhanced biological activity.
-- The pathological findings may be correlated with clinical, imaging,
and ' -
I operative findings for their final interpretation and patient‘s follow

. “Pg

 

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
. MGMT Promoter'Methylation

Date Ordered: _ Date Reported: —
' Interpretation =-

POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

’Results—Comments
'Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT
promoter

have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.
Assessment of ' '

MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA
followed -

by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and
_ unmethylated DNA

sequences. The-analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by
serial ' ‘

dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and
was

assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated
DNA.-
_ Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the

_ sample, or
"extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated

" MGMT'

promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a - ,

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance

characteristics determined by the — laboratory as
required by - _. It has not been cleared or approved
for"
, 'specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has ” ' '

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are '

‘provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
only in

the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

    

Date Or ere :
Interpretation

 

POSITIVE. Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm l9q is
detested. ‘ ‘
Informative loci are: D181592, D18552, D198219, D198412

_ Results—Comments

. ITest performed on DNA extracted from tumor tissue paraffin block
andeNA from peripheral blood for germline comparison.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA
_ (baseline)/ Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and 19q. The 3
I I markers I ' .
on 1p are DlSSéSr DISlSSZ, and D13552 (with D18468, DlSlél2, and
D15496 as "
backup markers) and the 3 markers on l9q are D193219, D198412, and
PLA2G4C "
(with D198606 and D1981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites
(2. or 4
nt repeats) except PLAZG4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)
polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used
if the
first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or
otherwise
ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each
, Chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas
- with- -1p
and l9q deletion.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results

from a
stand- alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its

performance

characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by - I . It has not been cleared or

' approved for
. specific uses by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has
determined that such Clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are
provided forI informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
the conteXtI of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

, TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non— neoplastic cells in
the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.
'**fElectronically Signed Out***

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A. ‘

-_Left frontalf'brain tumor, bio s : Infiltratin glioma. - -
ﬁesults

‘ reported to
the Physician of Record.

 

 

B. 1
Left.frontal brain tumor, biopsyi Infiltrating glioma, one abnormal
vessel. I

-." Touch preparation smears performed at _ and

results

reported to the Physician of Record. —

 

GROSSI-DESCRIPTION '

A.

"Left frontalI tumor," received fresh, three fragments, 0.6 cm in
aggregate. ‘

Soft, tannish—white. In total, Al.

B. “

“Left frontal tumor," received fresh, one fragment, 0.5 cm. Semi
' firm, -white..'
In total, Bl.

Left frontal tumor, received are multiple fragments 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm
1n'

aiireiate.I Soft, pink-tan to gray—white. In total, Cl—2

.. MicROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates a paucifibrillary
positive

background. The NeuN depicts the infiltration of the cerebral cortex
and'

white matter by the neoplastic proliferation. The CD34 demonstrates a
capillary—type microvascular network, with some endothelial
hyperplasia, but

without microvascular cellular proliferation. The CD163 highlights
' prominent I -

microglia, however'almost exclusively perivascular. With the MIB—l
there is a '

proliferation index of about 18% in focal more cellular/active areas.
ICE-9(8):

237.5 237.5.

6

 

Histo Data
Part A: Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy

Stain/cut . _ Block Ordered Comment
H/E x 1 ‘ ' ‘ 1
TPS H/E X l . ' 1

Part B: Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy

Stain/ant ' . Block Ordered Comment
H/s x 1 1 - 1

 

 

TPS H/E x 1 , , 1 _

Part C: Left frontal tumor, excision biopsy
_ — _ -
Stain/ant , Ordered Comment
H/E_x l .

CD163 VectorIIx 1
(31231—1323. x 1 '
fmGEAP~DA x,l=
w x1 . . r
LOH7slides Xml'
MGMT—curls x l
MIIBII—DA x 1
NeuN'X 1

P53DO'? X l

H/E x ,1

*#$ End of Report ***

DJ
5...:
O
0
PT

WMNMMNNMNMH

 

 

 

