 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

FSA: Left tongue base, biopsy

- No dysplasia or carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSB: Midline deep margin, biopsy
- Skeletal muscle only, no invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSC: Right posterior tongue mucosal margin, biopsy
- No dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSD: Right ﬂoor of mouth, anterior margin, biopsy
- No dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSE: Right mid tongue mucosal margin, biopsy
- No dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSF: Left mid lateral tongue mucosa, biopsy
- No dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSG: Anterior left ﬂoor of mouth mucosa, adjacent to tooth #21, biopsy
- Scant benign squamous epithelium with orthohyperkeratotic debris, without dysplasia.
- No submucosal stroma for evaluation.

FSH: Left posterior tongue mucosa, biopsy
- No dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSI: Midline anterior ﬂoor of mouth mucosa, biopsy
- Benign squamous mucosa and submucosa with extensive cautery artifact, no dysplasia or invasive carcinoma identiﬁed.

J: Lymph node, left neck level 2, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/14).

K: Lymph node, left neck level 3, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/8).

L: Lymph node, left neck level 4, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/11).

M: Bilateral neck, level 1A, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/2).

N: Lymph node, level 1B, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/6).
- Submandibular gland, no carcinoma identiﬁed.

0: Lymph node, right neck, level 1B, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/3).

P: Lymph node, right neck, level 2, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/ 15).

Q: Lymph node, right neck, level 3, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/9).

R: Lymph node, right neck, level 4, dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/ 12).

S: Floor of mouth, excision
- Invasive squamous carcinoma, poorly differentiated, 2.4 cm diameter, 0.7 cm depth.
- Vascular invasion: not identiﬁed.

- Surgical margins: negative but close (closest approach is 0.1 cm in S3).

- Associated squamous carcinoma in situ (S7).

- Lymph node with this specimen: no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/1).
- AJCC Stage: pT2 pN0 pr

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section consultation was requested by Dr.

FSA1: Left tongue base, biopsy
- Benign squamous mucosa

FSB1: Midline deep margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSC1: Right posterior tongue mucosal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSD1: Right ﬂoor of mouth anterior margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSE1: Mid tongue mucosal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSF1: Left mid lateral tongue margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSG1: Anterior left ﬂoor of mouth mucosa (adjacent to Tooth #21), biopsy

- No tumor seen

FSH1: Left posterior tongue mucosa, biopsy

- No tumor seen

FS11: Midline anterior ﬂoor of mouth mucosa, biopsy

- No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

squamous cell carcinoma of mouth.

Gross Description:

Container A consists of a 3 x 2 x 2 mm in aggregate red/tan soft tissue fragments submitted in block FSA1,-
Container B consists of an 8 x 5 x 5 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSB1,-
Container C consists of a 4 x 4 x 3 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSC1,-
Container D consists of a 5 x 2 x 2 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSD1,-
Container E consists of a 5 x 4 x 3 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSE1,-
Container F consists of a 6 x 4 x 4 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSF1,-
Container G consists of a 4 x 3 x 2 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSG1,-
Container H consists of a 3 x 3 x 2 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FSH1,-
Container I consists of a 4 x 3 x 2 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment submitted in block FS11,-

Container J is additionally labeled "L neck, Level 2." It consists of a 4.8 x 4.2 x 1.7 cm yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue fragment with multiple
lymph node candidates.

Block summary:
J 1 - four lymph node candidates

J2 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

J3 - three lymph node candidates

J4 - ﬁbrovascular tissue with possible lymph node candidates
Scant ﬁbromuscular tissue remains.

Container K is additionally labeled "L neck Level 3." It consists of a 3.4 x 2.8 x 1.3 cm yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with multiple lymph
node candidates.

Block summary:

K1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

K2 - two lymph node candidates

K3 - ﬁbrovascular tissue with multiple lymph node candidates
Fibromuscular tissue remains.

Container L is additionally labeled "left neck Level 4." It holds a 4.2 x 3.5 x 1.3 cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with multiple
lymph node candidates.

Block summary:
L1 - three lymph node candidates

L2 - four lymph node candidates
Fibromuscular tissue remains.

Container M is additionally labeled "Level 1A, bilateral." It holds a 1.5 x 2.4 x 1.2 cm yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue.

Block summary:
M1 - three lymph node candidates

M2 - ﬁbrovascular remnant,

Container N is additionally labeled "L neck, Level 1B." It holds a 4.9 x 5.1 x 2.6 cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with multiple
lymph node candidates and submandibular gland.

Block Summary:
N1 - piece of submandibular gland with ﬁbrovascular tissue

N2 - three lymph node candidates
N3 - three lymph node candidates and submandibular gland
N4 - one lymph node candidate and additional section of submandibular gland Submandibular tissue remains.

Container 0 is additionally labeled "R Level 1B." It holds a 4.7 x 4.2 x 2.3 cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue, submandibular
gland and lymph node candidates. Sectioning of the submandibular gland demonstrates tan parenchyma without masses.

Block summary:
01 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

O2 - two lymph node candidates and sample of submandibular gland
O3 - remnant ﬁbrovascular tissue with possible lymph node candidates
O4 - sample of submandibular gland and additional ﬁbrovascular tissue
Remnant submandibular gland remains.

Container P is additionally labeled "left neck Level 2." It holds a 4.3 x 3.6 x 1.2 cm aggregate of ﬁbroadipose tissue with multiple lymph
node candidates.

Block Summary:
P1 - two lymph node candidates

P2 - four lymph node candidates
P3 - three lymph node candidates
Fibrofatty renmant remains.

Container Q is additionally labeled "R neck Level 3." It holds a 4.1 x 3.3 x 1.7 cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with lymph
node candidates.

Block Summary:
Q1 - four lymph node candidates

Q2 - three lymph node candidates
Q3,Q4 - ﬁbrovascular remnant with possible lymph node candidates
Fibroadipose tissue remains.

Container R is additionally labeled "R neck Level 4." It holds a 5.4 x 3.6 x 2.2 cm aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with lymph
node candidates.

Block Summary:
R1 - three lymph node candidates

R2 - three lymph node candidates

R3 - two lymph node candidates

Fatty tissue and muscle remains.

Container S is additionally labeled "ﬂoor of mouth, short/ant., long/1t."

Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: ﬂoor of mouth resection

Size of specimen: 4.0 x 3.3 x 1.9 cm

Laterality: The specimen is described as ﬂoor of mouth.

Orientation of specimen: short=anterior, long="lt" (which is presumed lateral)

Inking: anterior=blue, posterior=black. The specimen was sectioned from "Lt" (presumed lateral) to

medial. The deep aspect is inked red.

Description of specimen: Received is a brown/tan soft tissue fragment with a white/tan ulcerated mucosal surface on the anterior
aspect. This island of mucosa is 3.9 x 1.8 cm in greatest dimensions.

Tumor description: Tumor involves the mucosa and is white/tan, ﬁrm and rubbery.

Location of tumor: ﬂoor of mouth

Tumor size: 2.3 cm from lateral (long stitch) to medial, 0.7 cm superﬁcial to deep, 0.8 cm from mucosal surface to red inked non-
mucosal surface

Distance of tumor to surgical margins: The mass is 0.5 cm from the black inked posterior margin, 0.5 cm from the red inked
margin opposite mucosa, 1.3 cm from the medial tip, 0.7 cm from the lateral tip (long stitch).

Presence/absence of bone involvement: n/a

Description of remainder of tissue: normal tan/brown fibromuscular and adipose tissue
Tissue submitted for special investigations: none

Lymph nodes: per block summary

Digital photograph taken: yes

Block summary:
(Inking: anterior (side of short stitch)=blue, posterior=black, the mucosa goes from anterior to the lateral surface and the opposite lateral cut

surface is inked red; The specimen was sectioned from lateral (long stitch) to medial).
S1 - lateral tip

S2 - medial tip

S3-S12 - sequential sections from lateral (long stitch) to medial

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

The frozen section diagnoses are conﬁrmed.

Signature

Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

