UUID: BSGBBABC- 3658- 4366- 9CF6- 7188931RF6e§1Ba
CG-A FB- AAPS- 01A- PR

755 patientm, H II N ll|||||IllllllllllllllNIHI ||||||||llllllllelllllllclltenI

IHHIl “llllllllll Illl ll lllllllllll'll...

II III
Gross Description: D: Whipple (paired silk prior pancreatic margin, long single silk portal

 

Surgical Date:

. . . . . 1a)- b ‘ 3
vein, long smgle blue SMA margin, looped blue suture deep radIal margin):

,5 LS, \dtmfﬂb
Received is a Whipple specimen that comprises a pancreas, duodenum, and @7WU’LW WI; 8555/5

gallbladder. The specimen is oriented by the surgeon with a paired silk \DL it! ﬁ/MWIagjéa
suture designated as prior pancreatic margin, a long single silk suture 94'. 1‘: 6// é//¢/ Okla
designated as portal vein, a long single blue suture designated as superior

mesenteric artery margin, and a looped blue suture designated as deep

radial margin.

The pancreas measures 5.5 x 5.5 x 4 cm. The neck margin is inked blue and

the radial margin is inked black. The pancreas is sectioned to reveal an

ill-defined, indurated, white-yellow mass that measures

3 x 3 x 2.7 cm that abuts and possibly invades the common bile duct, is

less than 0.1 cm to the superior mesenteric artery margin, and less than

0.1 cm to the deep radial margin, less than 0.4 cm to the portal vein

margin, and greater than 2 cm from the pancreatic neck margin. The common

bile duct and pancreatic duct are both probe patent. The remaining

pancreatic parenchyma is tan—yellow with normal lobular architecture.

The duodenum measures 19.5 cm in length x 3.3 cm in diameter and has

smooth, red-purple sero’sa. Both ends are stapled shut. The staples are

inked and opened to reveal a tan-brown mucosal surface with normal

appearing longitudinal folds. The distal 6.5 cm of duodenum is dark brown

and focally hemorrhagic with a slightly dusky appearance. There is an

ill-defined, erythematous lesion at the opening of the pancreatic duct in

the duodenum that measures approximately 2 x 1 cm in circumference. The
remaining duodenal mucosa is unremarkable. No other masses or lesions are
identified.

The gallbladder measures 10.2 x 4.2 x 1.6 cm and has a smooth—to-roughened,
red-tan serosal surface. The gallbladder is opened and is filled with

viscous, red-black bile fluid. A cystic duct remnant is identified and

measures 1.5 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is
bile-stained and grossly unremarkable. In addition, there is a

crystallized calculus, 1.5 cm in greatest dimension, identified. No masses

or lesions are identified.

The pancreatic duct and common bile duct enter the duodenum at different
locations approximately

1.5 cm apart from each other.

Sectioning through the fat closely reveals five possible lymph nodes. The
largest measures

1.5 cm in greatest dimension

Representative sections are submitted.

Microscopic Description:

Diagnosis Details: SOURCE OF SPECIMEN:A Common bile duct - FS
SOURCE OF SPECIMEN:B Gastroduodenal lymph node

SOURCE OF SPECIMEN:C Pancreatic neck margin — FS

SOURCE OF SPECIMENzD Whipple

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A: Common bile duct, biopsy: - Bile duct, negative for malignancy

B: Gastroduodenal lymph node, biopsy: - Two lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2)
C: Pancreatic neck margin, biopsy: - Pancreas, negative for malignancy

D: Pancreas, duodenum, and gallbladder, Whipple procedure: - Ductal adenocarcinoma of the head of
pancreas, moderately differentiated

Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: PANCREAS TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Pancreatoduodenectomy

Tumor site: Head

Tumor size: 3 x 3 x 2.7 cm

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, ductal type
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Tumor extent: Not specified

Lymph nodes: 1/7 positive for metastasis (Regional 1/7)
Lymphatic invasion: Not specified

Venous invasion: Not specified

Margins: Not specified

Evidence of neo—adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified

Comments: None

 

