 
 
 

CGA-ﬁﬁ—ZTBQ

 

Material examined:

Left lower lobe

Clinical diagnosis and question

Unclear space-occupying lesion S9 left, 810 left. Questionable asbestos.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Wedge left lower lobe: after removal of the angled, 13 cm long staple suture line, inﬂated, ﬁxed lung
resection tissue measuring 10 x 2 cm at the base, up to 4.5 cm thick, with pleural margin. Visceral pleura shows
slightly reticulate blackish pigmentation with an eccentric 2 cm area of star-shape retraction. Under this is a
whitish tumor, 1.9 cm in size, with unclear demarcation, at a distance of 0.1 cm from the staple suture line. Rest
of parenchyma shows partial rarefaction with the formation of lacunae max. 0.2 cm in size.

2.) Left lower lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed left lower lobe measuring 17 x 7 cm at the base, up to 20.5 cm high. Central
bronchus resection plane located at the level of bifurcation B6. At the hiius two partly lesioned nodes, 0.7 cm
and 3 cm in size. A staple suture line runs from the hilus in a cranial direction for 4 cm, and a staple suture line
runs from the hilus in a caudoventral direction for 5.5 cm. At the laterobasal margin over 38—10 there is a 16 cm
staple suture line demarcating an arcuate defect (status post wedge resection). Visceral pleura, accentuated
lateral partly reticulate and partly patchy blackish pigmentation. Parenchyma in all segments rareﬁed with
formation of 0.3 cm lacunae.

3.) Parietal pleura: 2.7 cm plate-like tissue up to 0.4 cm thick.

4.) Lobar LN (station 12) left upper lobe: two node parts, 0.4 cm and 1.5 cm.

5.) [nterlobar LN (station 11) left: 1.5 cm lesioned node.

6.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.5 cm lesioned node and a small piece of fatty tissue.

7.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) left: two node parts, each 0.8 cm.

8.) Prevascular and retrotracheal LN (station 3) left: 0.8 cm node part with surrounding tissue.

9.) Suboarinai LN (station 7): 2.2 cm lesioned node.

10.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 1.5 cm node part.

11.) Skin squamous epithelium left thorax: excised skin specimen measuring 2 x 0.6 cm with central button—
like, raised, brown skin lesion of 0.7 cm, distance from the lateral resection margins at least 0.1 cm, at least 0.6
cm from the poles.

Examined:

l.) a: Rapid section remains, b+cz tumor (base marked black),

2.) a: 1 section below the last—named staple sumre line, b: S6, c: 810, d: bronchus and vessel resection margins
(tangential) and also smaller hilar node, e: larger hilar node (lamellated),

3.) — l0.) All materiai (in 3.), 6.), 9.) and 10.) lamellated in each case).

1 1.) All materiai (lameilated).

17 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS, iron.

Microscopy
Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _ squamous cell carcinoma.
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosisfdiagnoses:

Peripheral, bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated, large—cell nonkeratinizing squamous cell
carcinoma of the leﬁ lower lobe of the lung evidently located in 89. TNM classiﬁcation according to this
picture pTl pNB pMX Ll R0, stage IIIB.

C 34.3;M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Numerous non—necrotizing epithelioid cell granulomata, largely in paravasal interstitial sites. Slight centroacinar
pulmonary emphysema (samples I.) and 2.)). Hypocellular ﬁbrosis area of parietal pleura (sample 3.)). Lymph
nodes with large foci of epitheiioid cell reaction, nodular, central partly necrotically altered areas of sclerosis
and anthraectic pigment deposits (samples 4.) - 7.) and 9.)). Sebon'heic keratosis of the skin of the akanthotic
type (sample 11.)).

Remark/addendum:

The carcinoma shows lymphangioinvasion at the tumor margin and has produced metastases in the hilar lymph
nodes of sample 2.) and in samples 8.) and 10.). The visceral pleura, the residual lower lobe of the lung,
including its resection margin of bronchus and vessels, and also the lymph nodes of samples 4.) and 7.) - 9.) are
tumor—free.

The distribution pattern of epithelioid cell granulomata is primarily consistent with sarcoidosis.

No asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes. But very much further-reaching investigations,
especially dust analyses, are needed to determine the asbestos exposure of the lung.

 

