   

Case Number: Pattent's Name:

     
 
   
 

Collect Date: MRN:
Receive Date: Pl-tN:
Date Reported: DOBIGender.

 
 

Ordering Physician:

 
 

Final Diagnosis:

1. Ovaries, fallopian tubes. and omentai cake: All show involvement by high grade papillary serous carcinoma
(a) FIGO tumor grade 3f3

(b) Foot of tymphovascular invasion are identiﬁed

(c) Largest omenlal tumor nodule measures 3.0 cm in maximum dimension

(d) Tubal intraepilhelial carcinoma present in ilmbria of right fallopian tube

(e) Please see Comment

2. Uterus and cervix. and specimen submitted as "cul-de—sac":

(3) Numerous deposits of high grade papillary serous carcinoma involving the uterine serosa and cul-de-sac
(b) Disordered proliferative endomelrium with local simple hyporplasia

(c) Unremarkable cervix

2. Peritoneal fluid: Postive for malignant cells, compatible with high grade serous carcinoma

 

Final Diagnosis Comment:

The bulk of disease involves the ovaries and omentur‘n. with tubal involvement limited mostly to the fallopian tube surfaces. However. fool of tubal
inlraapilhelial carcinoma are identiﬁed within the timbria of the right fallopian tube. This ﬁnding raises the possibility oi dissemination from a right
fallopian tube primary; a primary ovarian or peritoneal serous carcinoma are also possible,

 

Ovarian 08

A. L tube and ovary

B. R tube and ovary
C. Uterus and cervix
D. Guide—sac

E. Omental cake

Specimens Received:

A‘ left tube +ovary

B: right tube + ovary

C: uterus + cervix

D: wt de sac

E: omental cake

Gross Description:

Specimen is received in ﬁve containers each labelled with the patients name.

Container “A" is labelled "left tube and ovary’ and consists of an ovarian mass with multiple grey-white nodules in the outer surface of the ovary and
fallopian tube. The ovan‘an mass measures 7.5 x 4.0 x 8.0 cm and the fallopian tube measures 3.5 x 0.2 cm in diameter. The cut surtace of the tumour
is solid and partially cystic. The solid part represents approximately 85% of the tumour. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

"Al -A3" -ovarian tumour
"Ad-A5” -faltopian tube

Container MB" is labelled "right tube and OVBFY' and consists Of an ovarian mass with multiple grey-white nodules on the outer surface of the ovary and

 

tallopian tube. The ovarian mass measures 9.5 x 5.5 x 3.0 cm. The fallopian tube measures 3.5 x 0.2 cm in diameter. The cut surface of the mass is
soiid and partially cystic. The solid part is homogenous, grey-white and represents approximately 80% of the tumour. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

"31-33" ovarian tumour
"Bd" -failopian tube

Container "6" is labelted "uterus and cervix" and conststs of a tolat hysterectomy specimen measuring 9.0 cm from corpus to cervix. 4.5 cm from cornu
to cornu and 3.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The cervix measures 3.0 cm in length. The 05 is slit in shape and measures 0.4 cm. The uterus shows
multiple grey—white nodules on the serosat surface ranging from 0.1-0.3 cm in diameter, and thickening of the anterior peritoneal reﬁexion which
measures 1.2 cm in thickness. The endocervix shows multiple cysts with mucoid material, otherwise the endocervix and exocervix are grossly
unremarkable. Both anterior and posterior endometriurn are grossly unremarkable. The myometrtum is 2.0 cm in thickness with one small ﬁbroid
measuring 1.0 cm in the anterior myometrium and representative sections are submitted as follows:

"01402" -anterior ectolendocervix

"03" -thickened anterior peritoneal reﬂection
"(M—CS" -posterior ector'endocervix

"CS-C7” -anterior endometrtundmyometrium
“08-09" posterior endometriumfmyometrium
“C10" pul-de-sao

"011-012" -the serosal nodule

Container "0" is labelled "outdo-sac" and consists of grey-white nodular soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm and the tissue is submitted in into in
cassette "Dt".

Container "E" is labelled "omental cake" and consists of omental fatwith multiple grey~white nodules. The spectmen measures 6.0 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. The
grey-white nodules range in size from 0.6 to 3.0 cm in diameter. Representative sections are submitted as "Et" and “E2".

 

