UUID: 5CD8E633- 2800- 4066- MCA- 2332B1DR74eD§5a

l l ll "'llllll'“

 

 

 

 

 

 

Concerning

Summary pathology report

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (MT + lT 70%, YST 20%. EC 5 %, SE 5%); diameter 3.5
cm; no angle-invasion; no invasion of rete testis; tumor conﬁned to testis.

Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy):

mo 3
Mamacﬁﬂf emgégs 5L3
Mad-was mow
CV3 6/51")

pathologist

professor of pathology

PM) 155 dKMMW‘leW/
mm W a m/rr m

YST ’lq":

ac » I‘?

I913!

 

Initials Dita Rewewed:

 

 

 

V4. 00

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions: The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submi tted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T55): - , TSS identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient identiﬁer: __ 7
Completed By (Interviewer Name Completed Date: _
[Diagnosis information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
CT: SE (5 Str) + YST (2 0%) , Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s] documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis MT plus IT (70%) . EC (5%) the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
_ . MT plus IT (80%) , YST (19’s) , EC (1%) Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
EKStOIOglf feature: 3f Quality Control Form completed for this case.
8 samp e prov1 e
2 for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.
Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form
3 Provide the reason for Due to the histological heterogeneous Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
. t . t: t . f _ - , th pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
$i£f§£iﬁf§$§thology ::::e:e:t:::o: 0:0:h:e:::::::nt e diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected
Case Quality Control to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form- samples of the same case .
However, the components are monoclonal
in origin .
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or f” TCGA'
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

 

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

