 

   

  

 

Initiiiiiﬁiiiiiﬁiiﬁiiiiﬁiiﬁiuunumu
lllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllIIlIllIIll||||||ll

 

 

 

Collected:

Received:

Reported:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
:‘ M ADDEMDHM REPORT M
Upon clinician, this case was reviewed and additional immunohistochemical staining was performed on blocks Bi, 52 and D7.

    
 

 

The faltopian tube shows focal positivity for p53 and MlBt, with features consistent with serous tubal intraepitholiei carcinoma. There are also foci positive
for p53 and mm on the ovarian surface {block 82). These areas have features consistent with tubal iniraepithelial carcinoma, as apposad to 953
signature or a tubal in transition lesion. The endometrial cancer, as shown in block 07, is strongly positive for p53 and negative for WTJ, consistent with
a serous carcinoma, high-grade of endometnal origin.

i would recommend the patient be treated according to these ﬁndings.

Addendum Rennrt leer-M Ru-

DlAGNOSlS:
A. Presumed pelvic soft tissue, "adhesion". excision;
Benign ﬁbrofatty tissue: no malignancy identiﬁed.

8. Faiiopian tube and ovary. right. salpingo~oophorectomyz
Atrophy, advanced: negative for malignancy. 0 .5 i y 3,
Epitheiial dysplasia, marked. focal. failopian iube and ovarian surface (see comment). / ’

C. Faitopiantube and ovary. leit, salpingo—ooohorectomy: '
Atrophy. advanced: negative for malignancy. (136/: : WWW/JWM‘HIL {3 (0/5
D. Uterus, radical hysterectomy: FM1 '. CW, W M9 5 544/ /3
Adenocarcinoma. P .
Tumor Characteristics: (W W) 5 e112 ,‘ WW 6' 5"{~ I
. Histoiogic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: 3 (poorly differentiated). Wf/lz/I}

. Tumor site: Primarily anterior uterine wall.
. Tumor size: Greatest dimension: Approximately 3.0 cm.
. Myometrial invasion: Present, depth of invasion 15 mm into 17 mm thick myometnum.
. involvement of cervix Not identified.
Extent ofinvolvemont of other organs: See remainder of report.
Right paremetrium: Negative.
Lott parametrium: Negative.
8. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed,
Surgioai Margin Status:
1. Margins: Uninvoived by invasive carcinoma: distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2 mm (peritoneal serosal margin).
Other: ,
t. Pathoiogic stage: p‘l’i b, NO.

ﬂmwﬁwwa

E. Lymph nodes, right externai iiiac, excision:
Negative for malignancy, two nodes.

Criteria
Diagnosis

‘n

. Lymph nodes, right obturator, excision:
Negative for maiignancy, six nodes.

0

. Lymph nodes. right common and lower aortic. excision:
Negative for malignancy. eight nodes.

 

H. Lymph nodes, ieft external iiiac, excision:
Negative for malignancy, four nodes.

I. Lymph nodes. iet‘t obiurator. excision;
Negative for malignancy. five nodes.

J. Lymph node, to?! common and tower aortic; excision:

 

 

ﬁt“ .

lie acted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Negative for malignancy. one node.

K. Omentum. omentectomy:
Negative for malignancy.
A single small negative lymph node is present.

COMMENTS:

There is a microscopic focus of markedly atypical epithellum in one cross section of the right fallopian tube and a similar focus on the surface of tile right
ovary. Neither focus reaches the level of a diagnostic serous carcinoma. and no other foci are identiﬁed. These areas. however, raise the possibility that
other serous surfaces may show similar fool, and follow~up is suggested.

Sections have also been reviewed by (Jr. who {San in agreement.

 

CLINICAL HlSTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Endometrial cancer.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologlo F indlngs;

SPECIMENS:

V Adhesion.

. Right ovary/tube.

. Left ovary/tube.

Uterus and cervix.

Right external iliac lymph node.

Right obturator lymph node.

. Right common and lower aortic lymph node.
. Left external iliao lymph node.

Left obturator lymph node.

Common and lower aortic lymph node.
. Omentum.

xerxmmmpnm>

 

GROSS DESCRlPTION:
The specimen is received in eleven formalin ﬁlled containers labeled with the patients name '

A. ContainerA is additionally labeled adhesion and contains a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. tan—brown soft tissue entirely submitted in cassette A labeled“.

B. Container B is additionally labeled right ovary and tube and contains a 3.0 x 1.7 x 06 cm. yellowtan lobulated ovary received with attached
paraovarian soft tissue and segment of ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The fallopian tube is 4.3 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.7 cm. in diameter and
is otherwise unremarkable. The ovary features a yellow~tan ﬁbrous cut surface with multiple gray-white corpora alblcantla. Representative sections to
include the entire ovary are submitted in cassettes 31-3 labeled fesignated as follows: Bt~cross sections of fallopian tube; 82 and 3-
ovary, entirely.

C. Container C is additionally labeled left ovaryltube and contains a 2.5 x 1.8 x 1.1 cm. yellow—tan lobulated ovary received with attached paraovsrian
soft tissue and segment of ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The fallopian tube is 4.5 cm. In length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.7 cm. in diameter and is otherwise
unremarkable. Nom'ial‘appearing pink-tan glistening endometn'um is present on the posterior aspect and averages 0.3 cm. in thickness The ovary
features a yellow-tan ﬁbrous cut surface with multiple gray—white corpora albicantia. Representative sections to include the entire ovary are submitted in
cassettes 61—3 tabeled ' leslgnated as follows: Cl—cross sections of fallopian tube; CZ and 3—ovary. entirely.

0. Container D is additionally labeled uterus and cervix and contains a 581 gram, uterus with attached cervix devoid of adnexa. The 4.5 cm. in length
by 445 c 3.0 cm. uterine corpus is surfaced by pink-tan smooth and glistening serosa. The 2.3 cm. in length by 3.5 x 3.0 cm. uterine cervix is partially
surfaced by pink-tan glistening ectocervical mucosa and features a central 0.7 cm. patent 05. The parametrial soft tissues are inked and taken on face.
The endocervical canal is pink»tan and glistening and induratad. The endomelrium is lined by pink-tan granular tumor involving primarily the anterior
wall that extends 1.5 cm, into a l .1' cm thick mvnmetrium Additional myometrial nodules or lesions are not identiﬁed. Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes Dl~1t labeled esignated as follows: t-right oarametriurn, on face; 2—-~left parametrlum, en lace; S—anterior
endoectocerle; 4wposterior endoectocemx; ouantenur lower uterine segment: 6— —posterior lower uterine segment; 7-10 full thickness anterior
endomyometrium to include mass and deepest extensive invasion; tl~-fuli thicknoes posterior endomvometrium to include most normal appearing
endometriu'n; additionally, a yellow. green and blue cassette are submitted for

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. Container E is additionally labeled right external iliac lymph node and contains a 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.3 cm. yellow-tan fibrofatty soft tissue. On palpation,
two firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed it 7 and 2.0 cm. in greatest dimension. The largest possible lymph node is inked and bisected and the
lymph nodes are submitted in cassette E labeled to include one uninked possible lymph node. in toto and one inked and bisected lymph
node.

F. Container F is additionally labeled right obturator lymph node and contains a 4.5 x 3.3 x 1.5 cm. aggregate od yellowtan ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation. six ﬁrm fatty nneeihhl lvmnh nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.5 up to 3.0 em. in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes F 1-3 labeled designated as follows: Fl—four whole possible lymph nodes; F2—ooe whole possible bisected lymph node; F3»
one whole possible quadriseoted lymph node.

G. Container G is additionally labeled right common and lower aortic lymph nodes and contains a 4.1 x 3.2 x 1.4 cm. aggregate of yellow—tan ﬁbrofatty
soft tissue. On palpation, eight ﬁrm fattv possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 up to 2.0 cm. in greatest dimension. They are entirely
Submitted in cassettes Gt-Z labeled i to include four whole possible lymph nodes in each cassette. '

H. Container H is additionally labeled ielt external iliac lymph node and contains a 3.8 x 3.8 x 1,4 cm. aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, four firm fatty nMsihln lvrnnh nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.9 up to 4.0 cm. in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes H143 labeled signaled as follows: H1htwo whole possible lymph nodes; HZ—one whole possible bisected lymph node; H3—-
one.whole possible triseoted lymph node.

i. Container 1 is additionally labeled left obturator lymph node and contains a 3.5 x 3.3 x l2 cm. aggregate of yellow—tan ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. On
palpation, ﬁve firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.5 up to 1.5 em. in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassetteo ii and 2 labeled designated as follows: ll-«three whole possible lymph nodes; l2~two whole possible lymph nodes.

J. Container J is additionally labeled left common and lower aortic lymph node and contains a 4.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. aggregate of yellowtan ﬁbrofatty soft
tissue. On palpation. one firm fatty possible lymph node, 2.5 em. in greatest dimension. The possible lymph node is bisected and entirely submitted in
cassette J labeled

K. Container K is additionally labeled omentum and contains an 18.0 x 7.5 x 1.5 cm. yellow-tan ﬁnely lobulated ﬁbrofalty soft tissue consistent with
omentum. Sectioning reveals ayellow-tan finely tabulated, ﬁbroiatty cut surface with no nodules or lesions. Representative sections are submitted in

 

 

 

