Date Coll: -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
SPECIMEN

A. Rectosigmoid colon
B. Proximal colon
C. Distal donut

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received in fresh subsequently fixed in formalin

labeled "rectosigmoid colon" is a 19 cm. long portion of
colon which is stapled at one end (possibly proximal) inked blue and
the opposite end is opened and inked black. Retroperitoneal
reflection is located 7.5 cm. from the distal end. The specimen is
otherwise covered with pink-tan, glistening serosa and abundant
yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened to show pink-tan
glistening mucosa with an average circumference of 5.4 cm. There is
a 4.5 x 3.8 x 1.0 cm. tumor coming to within 1.5 cm. from of the
distal margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows invasion into the
muscularis propria, coming to within 0.3 cm. of the radial margin.
This radial margin is inked orange. No other discrete gross lesions
are identified. Samples are taken for tissue procurement. Lymph
nodes are grossly identified in the fat, measuring up to 0.9 cm. in
greatest dimension. Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted as follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: #1 - Representative luminal margins; 2—5 —
representative sections of tumor which includes tumo umor
to radial margin; 6—15 - whole lymph nodes. RS-15.

B. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin,

labeled "proximal colon" is a 9.5 cm portion of colon,
which is opened at one end inked blue and the opposite end is inked
black and stapled. The serosa is pink-tan smooth glistening
partially covered with yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened
to show pink-tan smooth glistening mucosa, which is slightly
flattened, having an average circumference of 4.5 cm. No other
discrete gross lesions are identified. The specimen fat is palpated
to identify few lymph nodes. Representative sections of the
specimen are submitted as follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Representative luminal margins, 2 —
representative sections are remainder of the specimen; 3 - possible

. RS-3.

C. Received in formalin labeled "distal donut" is a 2.5 x

2.2 x 1.2 cm pink tan rubbery annular tissue fragment
partially covered by pink tan smooth glistening mucosa. The tissue
fragment shows no other discrete gross lesi ntified and is
entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
This tumor is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma
with quite extensive invasion. It extends through the

bowel wall and sends tongues of tumor into pericolonic fat and
incites a scirrhous reaction. Because of the propensity to send
these narrow tongues of infiltrating tumor out into the fat, there
is minimal extension to the radial margin. Also tumor nests are
present within soft tissue (blocks 11, 13). Lymphatic invasion is
noted in the pericolonic soft tissue (block number 11). Invasion of
an artery is also noted. Please see the template below

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): pT3

Proximal margin: Negative for tumor

Distal margin: Tumor for tumor

Circumferential (radial) margin: Minimally positive

Distance of tumor from closest margin: Tumor is present to within
1.5 cm. of the distal margin and is present at the radial margin
Vascular invasion: Rare lymphatic and arterial invasion noted
Regional lymph nodes (pN): 52 lymph nodes present, 2 of which are
positive for metastatic disease, 2/52, pN1b

Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: present

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed

Other findings: None

B and C. Microscopic examination performed.
5, 4, 3

DIAGNOSIS

A. Rectosigmoid colon, segmental resection - Segment of colon with

moderate differentiated adenocarcinoma extending into pericolonic
fat and minimally to radial margin of resection. Metastatic
disease present to 2 of 52 lymph nodes, 2/52. Lympho-vascular
space invasion present.

B. Proximal colon, segmental resection - Segment of colon, no

significant pathology.
Five additional lymph nodes all negative for metastatic
disease, 0/5.

C. Distal donut, excision - Stapled portion of colonic tissue, no

significant pathology.

——— End Of Report ---

