 

 

Chart JD:

 

 

 

 

MRN:
PHN:
ACB:
DOBlGender:
Telephone:
Encounter:
Location:
Orderlnc
- surgical Pathology Report
Accession Number: ;
Collected Date: 2 Received DatelTime:
Pathologist: ‘ - ’ i)

Specimen Desgli'lii'lfn

A. Gallbladder at

B. Common bile duo h node at -

C. Tissue from SMA . CGA - IB — 8125
D. Whipple‘s specimen

Clinicai Information
Pancreatic cancer.
infectious patient: No
lmmunocompromised: No
. History of neoplasm: NIA

 

Diagnosis
A: Gallbladder:

-= Chronic cholecystitis.
- Negative for malignancy or dysplasia.

B: Common Bile Duct Lymph Node:
- ' One reactive lymph node, negative for malignancy.

C: Tissue from SMA:
— Extensive metastatic adenocarcinoma.

D: Pancreas and Duoden‘um, Whipple Specimen:

 

Cc:

Chart Request "3:“
Print DatelTime:

Pathology: Provider - Permanent

Page 1 of 5

 

 

Location. -«
MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

 

 

 

--S'u'roic'al Pathology Report

 

Accession Number:
Collected Date: Received DatelTlme:
Pathologist: ‘. .

- Pancreatic invasive well-differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma
(~ 3.5 cm), involving common bile duct, peripancreatic fat and tissue
around superior mesentery vein.

- Multifocal PanlN (1- 3).

- Extensive perineural invasion.

- No lymph-vascular invasion identified.

- Pancreatic distal resection margin involved by carcinoma.

- Resection margin of peripancreatic fat is < 0.1 cm from tumor.

- Posterior (uncinate) margin of pancreas free of tumor: at least
1.2 cm away, and 0.6 cm distant from PanlN.

— Common bile duct resection margin free of tumor: ~ 1.3 cm away.

- Ampulla of Vater and duodenal mucosa not involved by tumor.

- Five of ten (5110) peripancreatic lymph nodes positive for metastatic
carcinoma with extranodal extension.

- AJCC Staging: pT4N'1illlx.

- See Synoptic Report.

Reported by:

Electronically signed by: .' '
Verified:

 

S no tic Re ort

D: Pancreas (Exocrine), Macroscopic
SPECIMEN:

Head of pancreas

Duodenum

Stomach

Common bile duct

Gailbladder

Superior mesenterlc vein

 

Cc:

Lu... _

Chart Request [0: 7 Pathology: Provider — Permanent
Print DatelTime. - Page 2 of 5

 

Location: __- .
MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

Surgical Pathblogy Report

 

 

 

 

Accession Number:
Coilected Date: Received DatelTlme:
Pathologist:

PROCEDURE:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial pancreatectomy
TUMOR SITE:
Pancreatic head
TUMOR SiZE:
Greatestdimension: 3.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.8 x 2.5 cm

D: Pancreas (Exocrine), Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Ductal adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
(31 : Weil differentiated
MlCROSCOPlC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissues
Tumor invades retroperitoneal soft tissue
Tumor invades mesenteric adipose tissue
MARGlNS:
Margin(s) invoived by invasive carcinoma
Distal pancreatic margin
Invasive carcinoma involves posterior retroperitoneal surface of pancreas
LYMPH-VASCULAR lNVASlON:
Not identified
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Present
PRiMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT4: Tumor involves the oeliac axis or the superior mesenteric artery
REGlONAL LYMPH NODES (pN);
pN’l: Regional lymph node metastasis
ADDlTiONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDlNGS:
Pancreatic intraepitheliel neoplasia (highest grade: PaniN PanlN 1—3 )
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Not specified

Gross Description

Received are specimens A to D. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient‘s name
The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelied with the Surgicat Number

 

Cc:
ChartRequestiD: . - ._
Print DateITime: .1“ Patho'ogy'va'de' Egg???

 

Location:
MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report ,

\

 

 

 

Accession Number:
Collected Date: Received DatelTime: _

Pathologist:

A. The specimen consists of an intact cholecystectomy specimen measuring 8.5 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm. The serosal surface
appears smooth. The cystic duct is patent. Upon opening, no gallstones are identified. The mucosa appears velvety and
unremarkable. The cystic wall measures 0.3 cm in maximum thickness. No evidence of tumor is identified.
Representative sections are submitted in one cassette.

B. The specimen consists of one pro-bisected lymph node measuring 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. Attached to the node
is a piece of membranous fibrous tissue. The specimen ls serially sectioned longitudinally and submitted in toto in four
casseue.

C. The specimen consists of a small nodule which is submitted in toto for Q8. -
The entire remnant of the frozen section block is submitted in CQS1. -

D. The specimen consists of a segment of duodenum and portion of gastric pylorus. measuring 19.0 cm long and 8.0 cm
in circumference. Attached to the duodenum is a portion of pancreas measuring 4.0 cm in length and 4.5 cm in width, and
2.5 cm in thickness. A minimal amount of fatty tissue is present. The ampulla region of the duodenal mucosa appears
prominent but without ulceration or obvious mass. The peripancreatic tissue appears unremarkable. A portion of distal
common bile duct is attached. 2.5 cm in length, and 2.0 cm in greatest diameter. The pancreatic resection margin is inked
blue and the posterior margin is inked orange. Serial cross—sections through the pancreas reveal an ill—defined whitish
solitary mass measuring 3.5 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm. The pancreatic resection margin seems to be involved.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows:
D1 — shave margin of common bile duct.
DZ and D3 — longitudinal section through common bile duct and adjacent pancreatic tumor.
D4 — cross-section through tumor and pancreatic duct.
D5 - crossusection through tumor and pancreatic duct.
D6 and D7 — longitudinal section through pancreatic duct and ampuiia.
D8 and D9 ~ pancreatic tumor with overlying duodenum.
D10 — additionai longitudinal section through ampuiia.
Dtl and D12 — single cross-section of pancreatic tumor.
D13 ~ additional cross-section of pancreatic tumor with surrounding tissue.
014 and D15 — tumor with pancreatic resection margin.
D16 and Di? - pancreas with posterior margin.
D18 - distai margin of duodenum.
D19 — perpendicuiar margin of proximal duodenum and gastric pylorus.
D20 — two peripancreatic lymph nodes with one bisected.
D21 and D22 — more putative lymph nodes.
Cc:

Chart REQUBSt ID: , - P in l ' Provider — Permanent
Print DateITime: . a 0 ogy. Page 4 of 5

 

Location: ,
MRN:
PHN:
ACB:

 

 

Surgical Patholcjgy Repna'

 

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date: Received DatelTime: 1.
Pathologist: i

D23 — cross—section of SMV and SMA with pancreas.

Frozen Section Diagnosis

C. Tissue from SMA:
— Metastatic adenocarcinoma.-(Conf it 17).

Reported by:

 

._____...__. m. .2:—

 

Chart Request ID:

Pathoio : Provider - Permanent
Print DatelTime: gy

Page 5 of 5

 

