Collection Date:
Hospital of Orioin:

Copy to. , , ‘ ' ‘ a» ,

QC Pathologist:

FINAL PATHOLOGEC DIAGNOSIS:

A. Lung, right upper iobe, excision:

Tumor Characteristics:

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

Histologic grade: 213 - moderately differentiated.

. Tumor site: Right upper iobe. '

. Tumor focallty: Unifocal.

Tumor size: 2.2 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm.

Visceral pleural invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.

. Tumor extension: Tumor remains isolated within iung
parenchyma. '

9. Treatment effect: Not identified.

Surgicai Margin Status:

1. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 4.? cm.

2. Tumor distance from parenchymai (stapled) margin: 5.0
cm.

3. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.3 cm.

Lymph Node Status:

1.. Total number of lymph nodes received: 1.

2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic
carcinoma: 0.

Other:

1. pTNM stage: pT1b N0

B. Level 7 lymph node, excision:

One lymph node, without evidence of metastatic disease.

mwewewwe

COMMENTS:

CLINICAL HiSTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: -male with right lung
mass

Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptomisadioiogic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Right upper iobe

B. Level71ymph node

CODES:

 

 

PROCEDURAL D CS;
Date of Procedure:
Accession Datel'fime:

GROSS DESCRlPTION:

A. The ﬁrst containerA is labeled . right
upper lobe. The specimen consists of a lung lobectomy
specimen measuring 110 x110 x 6.5 cm and weighs 211
grams. The pleural surface is gray to brown tan with
hemorrhage. The pleura has been inked. Sectioning reveals
a circumscribed gray ten to yellow tan slightiy anthracotic
mass measuring 2.2 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm that is 0.3 cm from the
pleural margin, 4.? cm from the bronchial margin of
resection and is within 5.0 cm of the closest staple line.

On sectioning through the mass there is focal areas of
purulent material exuding from the mass. The surrounding
lung tissue is red to orange tan spongy with hemorrhage.
Within the peribronchiai soft tissue there is a brown tan
anthracotic nodule consistent with a lymph node measuring
0.4 cm. Received with the specimen are We cassettes, one
green and one yellow. labeled _ Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes ~ as '
follows: mass-—1 to 4; bronchial and vascular margin-—5;
surrounding lung-6; shave section from stapled edge-J;
peribronchial lymph node—8.

B. The second container 8 is labeled level 7
lymph node. The specimen consists of a brown tan
anthracotic nodule consistent with a lymph node measuring
0.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in a
single cassette;__

1 u. mutt rmal Results Receiver!

11-.

 

