 

Git—A3433?)

 

 

 

DIABNOSlS:
Kidney r

 
 
 

. and without involvement of

 
   

the peri pelvic fat.
Ureter and renal vessels at surgical margin negative for malignanqr.
Inked sul‘gkal margin negative for malignancy.

Benign adrenal gland without pathologic ﬁndings.

Negative for lymphovaswlar invasion.

No lymph nodes submitted for evaluation.

AJCC cancer classiﬁcation: T2NXMX.

Electronic Signature:

    

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Right renal mass

Postoperative Diagnosis:

SgnnptomsIRadiologic ﬁndings: .

SPECIMENS: 1
Right kidney and adrenal gland

 

enoss DESCRIPTION:

Received in one container labele% right kidney and adrenal gland is a 597.5 gram tight nephrectomy specimen, 11.5 x 9-8 x 6.0 cm. The

specimen is covered by a gray capsu a minimal amount of penootonlc adipose tissue. A 5.5 x 0.4 cm long segment of ureter is identiﬁed at the
. ed

hilum On ope-ling it Is 9 b lesionﬁsegment of artery and vein is identified. Each has a patent grossly uninvolved lumen. Extending

      

m. The specimen is sectioned to display a focally hemorrhagic lobutarﬁnn yellow cut surface
Grossly the lesion pushes against the rena capsde and pelvis. Greedy it does not perforate into the surrounding adipose tissue.

The remainder of the cut surface displays a congested parenohyma with poorly deﬁned cortioomedullary junction The recognizable pelvis is lined by
gray mucosa.

A 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm partial adrenal gland is attached and is 6.4 cm from the aforementioned lesion. The specimen has a normal appearing bright yellow
cortex and red - brown medulla. It is grossly uninvolved by lesion. The perirenal adipose tissue is sectioned. Lymph nodes are not identiﬁed.

Separately submitted in the container is a 3.2 gram, 3.2 x 1.2 x 0.5 om partial adrenalectomy specimen partially covered by tabular yellow adipose
tissue. The specimen is inked and sectioned to display normal appearing cortex and medulla. Lesions are not identiﬁed.

Representative sections are submitted as follows. 1— ureteral and vascular margins;2 —lesion to pelvis: 3— lesion to inked margin; 4-7— lesion to
ﬁnvolved parenchvma' B~ uni yrna: 9— lesion to adrenal gland- to— separately submitted adrenal gland- The cassettes submitted for

_a. ...' "1» :. Jena ,3-"

 
 

 

