 

 

Pathologic interpretation:

A

lntra lobar lymph node #11:
- One lymph node with anthracosis.
- No tumor seen.

Right upper lobe. lobectomy for frozen section:

- Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. 6.2 cm. in greatest dimension.
- The tumor penetrates visceral pleura.

- Margins free of tumor.

- Four lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0M).

- AJCC pT2. N0. MX

— See Tumor Summary.

Parabronchial lymph node, biopsy:
- One lymph node, no malignancy seen (0/1).

Paraesophageal lymph node #8:
- One lymph node, no malignancy seen (011).

Visceral pleural nodule, biopsy:
- Lung parenchyrna with foot of bronchioloalveolar hyperplasia.
- No carcinoma seen.

Right tracheal angle lymph node #10:
- Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (BIZ).

Right superior lobe segment:
- Lung parenchyma with foot of bronchioloalveolar hyperplasia.
- No carcinoma seen.

Subcarinal lymph node #7:
- Two lymph nodes . no malignancy seen (012).

inferior pulmonary lymph node #9:
- Two lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0/2).

nght distal paratracheal lymph node #R4:
- Four lymph nodes, no malignancy seen (0M).

Tum—erx:
Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Laterality: Right

Tumor Site: Upper lobe

Tumor Size:

Greatest dimension: 6.2 cm.

Additional dimensions: 3 x 2.4 cm.

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma. not otherwise characterized

Histologic Grade. Poorly differentiated

Pathologic Staging:

 

RTZ: Tumor with any of the following features of size or extent: greater than 3cm in greatest dimension
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
pMX: Cannot be assessed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2 mm.
Specify margin: Soft tissue (chest wali)
Venous (Large Vessel) invasion (V): Absent

Arterial (Large Vessel) Invasion: Absent

Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent

Pathologic Staging: pT2, N0, MX

 

A's the attendingpathologist. I attest that I: (r) Examined the relevant preparationfs)
for the specimen (5}; and (it) Rendered the diognosisfes).

 

Amendments

 

Reason: Diagnosis editing/clariﬁcation

 

Addendum Diagnosis

This addendum is issued after a second review of the gross specimen and the pulmonary conference to clarify that there are
adhesions between the tumor and an attached fragment of membranous sotf tissue/parietal pleura? which measures approximately

7.5x2.0x0.4 cm. However the tumor does not penetrate through to reach into the soft tissue margin (section BS). This case was
reviewed with

lntraoperative Consultation

B. Right upper lobe, FS: Bronchial margin, tree of tumor.
Tumor: Carcinoma. favor adenocarcinoma.

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

   

iii

' Fearlymphmsctsa are

 

 

 

 

