UUID: 813(1D9F- 3602- 4138- 3211- -315E63C5C
TCGA- EM- A4FF- BIA- PR mgd

Ill lllllllll"Illllllllllllllllllllll
Ill lllllllllHlllllHllllllllllllllil{llllﬂllllllllllllﬂllllwill?!l lllllllal " mad

I”llllllllﬂlllllllllllllllllllHlllllHlllHllllllllllllilllll
LABORATORY MEDICINE PRObnnm

Surgical Pathology ConSultation Report

 

 

Patient Name: a . Amun‘ #: —
MRN: V . V Service: Collected:

DOB: Visittr: Received: '

Gender: l Location: " .. Reported:

HCNZ ?— Faciiity: *-

Ordering MD:

Copy To:

 

Smcimenls) Received

1. Lymph-Node: LEFT PARATRACHEAL LYMPH MODE
2. Rt. paratracheal tissue qs

3. Parametal lobe

4. Total thyroid (suture rt lobe)

5. Rt. paratracheal lymph node

n

Diagnosis
1. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node. 1 (left paratracheal) biopsy

2. No pathdlogical' diagnosis: Lymph node (right paratracheal) biopsy

3. No pathological diagnosis: Thyroid (pyramidal lobe) resection specimen

4. Multitocal papillary Carcinoma, dominant left 1.5 Cm involving resection margin: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroids, left 1, and right 1 .

No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, 1
- total thyroidectomy specimen

5. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node (right paratracheal) biopsy [Lb _ 0 , 3
(Lat/W 1911’” ““1, "ﬁlﬁ
U

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type: Total Thyroidectomy Slit, : Wd' m ‘ C7? ' 7

Tumour F ocality: Muttifocal

—-—-————-———-—Dominant Tumour—W 13/

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, classical type / 4;

Tumour Site: Left Lobe

Tumour Size: Greatest Dimension: 1.5 cm

Additional Dimensions:1.1 x 0.9 cm
Capsular Invasion: Unencapsulated

Locally invasive
Extrathyroidal Extension: Absent

Margins: Margin(s) involved by carcinoma
VenousILymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (VIL): Present
—-——-——-—-—-—-——Secondary Tumour——-——--———-—--

 

- Page 1 ofW

". Surgical Pathology Consultation Report w

 

 

“Historcgro type: Papillary carcinoma. follicular variant

Tumour Site: . Left Lobe

Tumour Size: Greatest Dimension:0.1cm

Capsular Invasion: Unencapsulated

Extrathyroidal Extension: Absent

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Paﬂrologic Staging (pTNM): pT1: Tumor size 2 cm or less, limited to thyroid

pN1a: Nodal metastases to Level Vl (pretracheal, paratracheal and
prelaryngeal/Delphian) lymph nodes
i Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 4
' , Number of regidl’iﬂilii’r’irp "'i‘iodesrihvolved: 1
’ pr: Distant metastasis g niiiitirk assessed *
Additioﬂat‘ﬁatltﬁmgic Findings: Other (spearmwénruss niitifocarinoma. left 0.1 cm

 

t

Electronicallv veriﬁed by;

Clinical Hrstog
THYROlD CA

Gross Description
1. The specimen labelled with the patients name and as “left paratracheal lymph node" consists of a piece of brown-tan

tissue that weighs 0.28 g and measures 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.3 cm.
1A submitted in

2.. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “right paratracheal tissue" consists of a tiny piece of tissue that
measures 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
2A frozen section block resubmitted .

3. The specimen labelled with the patients name and as “right parametal lobe " consists of a piece of brown-tan tissue
that weighs 0.32 g and measures 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm.
3A submitted in ‘

4. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "total thyroid suture right lobe" consists of a thyrold gland that is
oriented with stitch and weighs 19.0 g. The right lobe measures 5.0 cm 3! x 3.2 cm ML x 2.0 cm AP, the left lobe
measures 4.0 cm Sl x 2.5 cm ML x 2.0 cm AP and the isthmus measures 3.5 cm Si x 1.4 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP. The
external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly. The external
surface is painted with silver nitrate. The superior pole of the left lobe contains one nodule is well delineated and has
brownish tan solid cut surfaces. The nodule measures 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.9 cm. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is brown in
color, solid and homogeneous. Sections of left lobe nodule and normal tissue are stored frozen. A representative
section of the nodule is also ﬁxed for The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

4A-L right lobe, superior to inferior

4M-N isthmus

40-X left lobe. superior to inferior

5. The specimen labelled with the patients name and as “right paratracheal lymph node" consists of a piece of brown tan
tissue that weighs 0.36 g and measures 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. -
5A submitted in -

Quick Section Diagnosis
2A benign lymph node

 

—

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

‘3

 

 

PageSofS

