UUID. E1EA2668- CEEE— 4669- A2E7- D845153D316e7d
TCGA- 55-A4DG-91A- PR

|l||||l||||||||||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIEIIIIIaIllIted
IIIIIII IIIIIIIII I IIII IIII IIIIII III III IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY To: -. ﬂ

ICC—03
Pro-Op Diagnosis CKan‘OC MC t (WOW , ND 3
Right lung upper lobe nodule X (Li—OIP‘S
Post-Op Diagnosis 8i k \
Same as above 1 (A
Clinical History '8, Won I 051,
Nothing indicated ng. I
Gross Description: Ciel 243
Five parts {(0

Container labeled '“1 - level 9 lymph node" is 1.0 x 0.7
x 0.3 cm irregular fragment of soft gray yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue
entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled ‘~2 — level 10 lymph node" are 1.6 x
1.2 x 0.6 cm focally calciﬁed ﬂeshy gray black tissue fragments
which are sectioned and entirely submitted in two cassettes.

Container labeled ‘— 3 - right upper lobe" has a
previously partially sectioned recognizable portion of pulmonary
parenchyma consistent with right upper lobe. This weighs as received
190 grams and measures 15.0 x 13.4 x 3.9 cm. The margin of
resection has a stapled bifurcated tertiary bronchus with an

adjacent partially fragmented 0.8 cm fleshy mottled gray black
nodule. The pleura is wrinkled mottled gray pink with moderate
anthracotic streaking. Noted at the apex slightly posteriorly is a
previously sectioned region which exposes a marginal 2.5 x 2.3 x 1.6
cm roughly Wedge shaped gray tan ﬁrm ﬁbrotic lesion with mottled
gray tan ﬁbrotic cut surface. Noted at its nearest point 5.2 cm

from the bronchial margin a bronchial connection is grossly
identiﬁed. This lesion grossly extends to but not through the

pleura at the apex. The specimen is received after tissue harvest
for genomic study. Within the specimen container are two tissue

cassettes each labeled nmediately adjacent to
the lesion are areas of subpleurai honeycombing of the pleura which
is grossly consistent with paracicatrlcial emphysema. The remaining
parenchyma is spongy tan pink with moderate anthracotic streaking.
No significant fluid, honeycombing or additional lesions are

identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted labeled as

follows: A - shaved bronchial margin and peribronchiai nodule; B—F -
remaining lesion and surrounding tissue; 6 — random uninvolved
parenchyma.

Container labeled ‘Hti - 4R lymph node" are 4.2 x 3.3 x
1.2 cm of gray tan 0 yellow ﬁ roiatty tissue fragments which

scattered poorly deﬁned areas of gray ten to black ﬂeshy tissue.
The ﬂeshy tissue areas measure up to 1.0 cm. The specimen is
sectioned and the fleshy tissue regions are entirely submitted in
two cassettes. ‘

Container labeled " 5 ~ level 7 lymph node" is 3.2 x 2.0
x 1.0 cm of fragmented gray yellow to black ﬂeshy and fatty tissue
fragments which is sectioned and entirely submitted in three
cassettes.

Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Lymph node, thoracic, level 9. excision:

Negative for malignancy. one small node.
Lymph node. thoracic. level 10. excision:

Reactive hyperplasla; negative for malignancy, several lymph node
fragments.

inactive, dystrophically calciﬁed granulornas are present.
Lung, right upper lobe, lobec’tomy:

Tumor characteristics:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: ll (moderately differentiated).

Specimen integrity: Specimen intact; margins can be evaluated.

Tumor site: Posterior apex. subpleural.

Tumor locality: Unitocal.

Tumor size: 2.5 x 2.3 x 1.6 cm.

Visceral pleural invasion: Malignancy extends to. but not through,
the visceral pleura.

Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Tumor extension: Not applicable.

Treatment effect Not identiﬁed.

Surgical margin status:

Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 5.2 cm.

Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 1 mm.

Lymph node status:

Total number of lymph nodes received: At least 20 (includes two
hilar lymph nodes from

lobectomy specimen, as well as parts 1, 2. 4 and 5 - see

comment).

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
Other:

The malignancy has a prominent ﬁbrous stroma wind at central area
of scarring.

pTN stage: pT1b N0
Lymph nodes, thoracic, level 4R. excision:

 

Reactive hyperplasla and scattered noncaseeting granulomata.
Negative for malignancy, at least eight nodes.

Lymph nodes, thoracic, level 7. excision:

Reactive hyperplasia and scattered noncaseating granulomata.
Negative for malignancy. at least five nodes.

Comments

Several of the lymph nodes contain small noncaseating granulomas.
Two representative blocks from two separate specimens are each
stained for acid fast bacilli and fungi. in the presence of
appropriately staining positive and negative controls, both are
negative. Clinical correlation is suggested, however.

The total number of lymph nodes stated (20) represents a
conservative estimate, as the nature of the specimens submitted as
number two. tour and ﬁve do not permit an accurate counting of
total lymph nodes.

At the request of the undersigned patholo let, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. ‘ who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been ﬁnalized at the— campus.

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

 

