 

' CGA —A3-—3359 ‘
Physician Portal ., I Page 1 of 2

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology COPY TO:
COPY TO:

PrerOp Diagnosis
Left renal tumor
Post-0p Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Received in a single container labeled m — left kidney"

is a 222 gram previously partially sectioned left nephrectomy

specimen surrounded by a moderate amount of edematous perinephric

adipose tissue. The specimen as received measures 15.1 x 3.5 x 5.1

cm. The margins of resection include 2.0 cm of grossly patent renal

artery, 1.0 cm of grossly patent renal vein, and 5.5 cm of grossly

patent ureter. The capsule strips with moderate ease to reveal an

organ measuring 11.0 x 6.0 x 5.6 cm. The cortex is slightly pale,

lobulated, granular and tan brown. On the anterior aspect in the

upper pole extending toward the mid region is a 4.0 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm

lobulated tan gray to yellow Well circumscribed unencapsulated

nodular lesion which Extends beyond the plane of the kidney but

appears to be completely encased by the renal capsule. This has a

slightly bulging fleshy focally hemorrhagic tan yellow cut surface.

The lesion appears to compress the surrounding structures but does

not appear to grossly extend into them. The remaining cortex is up to

0.5 cm, homogeneous. slightly granular and tan brown. The cortical

medullary junction is poorly defined. The medulla is tan pink with

sharp papillae. The calyces and pelvis are lined by smooth gray white

mucosa extending into the ureter. The adrenal gland is not grossly

identified. Also received in the same container are three tissue

cassettes each labeled . Representative sections are

submitted labeled as follows: A — vascular and ureteral margins; B h

through F ~ representative lesion and surrounding tissue; G - random ‘ a

 

'uninvolved parenchyma.

Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled " are examined. See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Left kidney (nephrectomy):
Tumor:
Histologic type: Renal cell carcinoma (clear cell type).
Tumor site: Upper pole.
Tumor size: 4.0 cm in greatest diameter.
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney.
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 2/3
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivooal lymphovascular space
invasion identified.
Transcapsular invasion: No
Renal vein invasion: No
Vena caval invasion: Not resected
Adrenal gland: Not resected.
Surgical margin status:
Soft tissue margins: Not involved
Ureteral surgical_msrgins; Not involved
Vascular surgical margins: Not involﬁed
Lymph node status:r No lymph nodes resected. PAS 9
Other findings:
Interstitial chronic inflammation. PAS 5 SPC-A
CPT: 83307 x 1
Comments

 

 

 

Physician Portal

This test has been finalized at the
#

 

 

';- Campus .

Page 2 of2

 

 

