MA 4 3
mm,” 33252351523: MMW WW“ N“ ”W
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIIIIIIII“I m2,“
. 09/, / 4 a //
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII jib/”W H

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

SPECIMEN
The specimen is received in five parts, labeled as follows:
A. Uterus, cervix, ovaries, tubes, bilateral parametria, upper
vagina
B. Right pelvic lymph node
C Right periaortic lymph node
D. Left pelvic lymph node
B Left periaortic lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Endometrial cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh, labeled "uterus, cervix, ovaries,
tubes, bilateral parametria, upper vagina", is a 149 gram,
5.5 x 5.5 x 4.5 cm. symmetrical uterine corpus, with attached 3.5
cm. cervix and marked adnexa. The serosa is smooth tan-pink—red.
A
thin rim of wrinkled pale tan apparent vaginal mucosa
circumferences
the 4.2 x 3.8 cm. dusky tan—pink-red ectocervix. The patent os
measures 1 x 0.3 cm. The anterior paracervical surface is inked
blue and the posterior paracervical surface is inked black. On
opening, the cervical canal contains soft tan—white tumor, which
extends into and filled the distorted 4 x 2.5 cm. endometrial
cavity. Sectioning through the cervix and lower uterine segment
reveals glistening tan—white tumor, which measures up to 2 cm. in
thickness and extends to within 0.2 cm. of the inked paracervical
surface. The tumor throughout the endometrial cavity measures up
to
2.2 cm. in thickness, involving greater than 75% of the myometrium
grossly. The myometrium is tan-pink and measures up to 2 cm. in
thickness. The 2.4 x 2.2 x 1.6 cm., rubbery tan-gold left ovary
shows pale tan stroma on sectioning by identifiable corpora
albicantia. The discontinuous—appearing fimbriated pink—purple
left
fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm. in length and averages 0.5 cm. in
diameter, with a pinpoint to stellate lumen on sectioning.
Received

<9

GROSS DESCRI PTION

separately within the specimen container is a 4 x 3.4 x 2.5 cm.
attenuated tan—gold ovary and associated, fimbriated, 4 cm.
pink—purple fallopian tube segment. On sectioning, the ovary is
cystic, containing a copious amount of grumous, greasy tan-gold
debris and brown hair. A tubercle is not identified grossly.
Residual ovarian stroma is pale tan with identifiable corpora
albicantia. The fallopian tube segment averages 0.5 cm. in

diameter

to

with a pinpoint to stellate lumen on sectioning. Representative
sections are submitted in twenty~two blocks, as labeled. RS-22

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-4 - Vaginal margin sequentially beginning at 12

3 o'clock; 5,6 — anterior cervix/LUS (point of continuity inked
orange); 7-9 — representative cervix containing tumor from 2 to 5
o'clock; 10,11 « posterior cervix/LUS (point of continuity inked
green); 12,13 - representative cervix, including tumor from 7 to 11
o'clock; 14-16 — representative anterior endomyometrium with tumor
full thickness sequentially from fundus to LUS; 16-19 -
representative posterior endomyometrium, including tumor full
thickness sequentially from fundus to LUS; 20 - left tube and

ovary;

21,22 - separately received tube and ovary.
B. Received fresh, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", is

7.4 x 6.8 x 3.4 cm. aggregate of soft, lobulated
golden—yellow adipose tissue. A few soft to slightly rubbery
tan-pink-gold tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to
5.4 cm. in greatest dimension, are recovered. The lymphoid tissues
are entirely submitted in nine blocks, as labeled. RS-9

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Two whole nodes; 2,3; 4,5 — one bisected node
per pair of cassettes (one-half per cassette); 6-9 - quadrisected
largest node.

C. Received in formalin, labeled "right periaortic lymph

ﬁg,

GROSS DESCRIPTION

node", is a 6 x 3.6 x 1.7 cm. portion of soft, lobulated
golden—yellow adipose tissue. A few soft to rubbery, lobulated
tan-pink—gold tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to
3.2 cm. in greatest dimension, are recovered. The lymphoid tissues
are entirely submitted in five blocks, as labeled. RS-S

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Two whole nodes; 2,3 - one bisected node per
cassette; 4,5 - bisected largest node (one—half per cassette).

D. Received in formalin, labeled "left pelvic lymph

node",

is a 7.5 x 7.5 x 3.3 cm. aggregate of soft, lobulated
golden—yellow adipose tissue. Several soft to slightly rubbery
tan-pink—gold tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to
4.3 cm. in greatest dimension, are recovered. The lymphoid tissues
are entirely submitted in eight blocks, as labeled. RS—B

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Four whole lymph nodes; 2,3 - one bisected

lymph

node per cassette; 4,5 - one bisected lymph node (one—half per
cassette); 6—8 - trisected largest lymph node (one—third per
cassette).

E. Received in formalin, labeled "left periaortic lymph

node", is a 4.7 x 3.8 x 2.3 cm. portion of soft, lobulated
golden—yellow adipose tissue. A few soft to rubbery tan—pink—gold
tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to 4 cm. in
greatest dimension, are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are
entirely submitted in six blocks, as labeled. R846

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Two whole nodes; 2 - one bisected node; 3—6 —
quadrisected largest node (one—quarter per cassette).

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A. The following template applies to the hysterectomy
specimen.
Histologic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous
differentiation.
Histologic grade: 2
Myometrial invasion:
1.3 cm depth of invasion
1.7 cm depth of myometrial thickness
76% of myometrial wall
Cervix: Extensively involved by carcinoma replacing the stromal
connective
tissue.
Primary tumor (pT) TNM: pT2b (FIGO IIB)
Margins of resection: Uninvolved.
Vascular invasion: foci suspicious.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Positive as described below (le).
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by the specimen
(pMX).
Other findings: There is a mature cystic teratoma of the left
ovary.
B. The right pelvic lymph nodes demonstrate six lymph
nodes with no evidence of metastasis.
C. The right periaortic lymph nodes demonstrate

metastatic

disease in one of four lymph nodes.

D. The left pelvic lymph nodes demonstrate seven lymph
nodes with no evidence of metastasis.

E. The left periaortic lymph nodes demonstrate metastatic
disease in one of four lymph nodes.

5,4X4

DIAGNOSIS

A.

 

Uterus, cervix, resection:
- Adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, by direct

extension from the uterine corpus, extensively involving the
cervical

stroma.
Uterus, endomyometrium, resection
— Adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, grade 2 with squamous
differentiation.
- Depth of invasion 76% through myometrial wall.
Ovary, left, resection
- Mature cystic teratoma.
Ovary, right, resection
- No evidence of malignancy.
Fallopian tubes, right and left, resection
- No pathologic diagnosis.
Right pelvic lymph nodes, resection
- No evidence of metastasis in six lymph nodes (0/6).
Right periaortic lymph nodes, resection
— Metastatic carcinoma involving one of four lymph nodes (1/4).
Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection
— No evidence of metastasis in seven lymph nodes (0/7).
Left periaortic lymph nodes, resection
- Metastatic carcinoma involving one of four lymph nodes (1/4).

-—- End Of Report ———

Oilnrb ‘

lia‘nnsis Ui‘r'ept'cy
Pun-1y Tumn' S

 

     

 

