Results - j ‘ aroesv 0R SURGICAL SPECIMEN,IH

Patient Information ,
' 'entName _ - N Sex B .. .
Male

UUID : 40643C45 -D78F -4103-8E38-70763399611A
Result information . TCGA-GU-A767-l1A-PR Re cted
‘ Status . Provrder Status 1 l I"

da
”MIN,“ Reviewed liiHiiHHHill!lliliiiiiilililililliililiiliiiillillliiiiili
~ i

||||| ||||||| IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIII Illlllllil iiHilllIllli
Enti Date ”I

 

l
| |
l llllllllllllllllllillllHllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

Component Results
Component ‘ Lab
So i I Pathoi
\ 91512410123 (1 ‘~
Wmv Mi); 1!" 9 ‘QL a
Final Diagnosis @ﬁw? ML , MWUZJMﬂ
A Right distal ureter. excision: , _ 7 g/ﬁ’l I 3
- Segment of benign ureter »

-Norarcinomais seen \ N03 (7597 (i

 

- Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed on permanent sections at a \ N0 8 (3 {/7}? .
B. Left distal ureter. excision: . W1 ’ LL
- Segment of benign ureter n .-

" -Nooarcinomaisseen (3a) diS/Lﬁ

- Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed on permanent sections
C. Urinary bladder and prostate. radical cystoprostatectomy:

Urinary Bladder

- invasive high grade urotheiial carcinoma with prominent micropaplilary
features. extensively involving bladder wall and extending into prostatlc
urethra, in a background of In situ ﬂat and papillary urothelial carcinoma. see
note

- Urothellai carcinoma invades muscularis proprla and extends into perivesiml
adipose tissue (pT3)

~ Metastatic umthelial mrcinoma in three pelvic lymph nodes (see parts D and
E)

- Background urothelium with chronic inﬂammation and biopsy site changes

- Pathologic TNM stage: pT3b N2 MX

- See CAP template below for further details

Prostate:
- High grade prostatic intraepitheiial neoplasia (HG-PIN)
CAP Template for Carcinoma of the Urinary Bladder.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
Tumor Site: Anterior and posterior braddiar walls

Right and left lateral walls

Trigone
Dome

TumorSize: 'l ' ”VJ gil’gpﬂ :m A Ti

::_‘~;_Ts~~—WI;J
—

 
  
  

‘ —*'-——r-r . .V

r r , 7‘3 , —~ _____
12:3: WJ “j Vs
onlirrED, I DIS—(4.5 ““5, .__,.__
em Ddli‘Rsyfrf/"dz; “ 3-~——~-7
7 , _ ‘

  

Greatest dimension: 7.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 6.5 x 1.5 cm

Histologic Type: Urotheliai (transitional cell) carcinoma with mlcropapillary
features .

Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed
Histologlc Grade:

Urothellal Carcinoma (WHO 2004IlSUP): High-grade
Tumor Configuration: Papillary I micropapillary

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades perivesiml tissue. macroscopically
(extraveslcel mass)

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
. Margins uninvolved by carcinoma in situ

Lymph-Vascularinvaslon: Present

Pathologic Staging (pTN M):
Primary Tumor (pT): pT3b: Tumor invades perlveslcal tissue. macroscopically
(extraveeical mass)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastases in true
pelvis
Specify: Number
examined: 6
Specify: Number
involved: 3

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings:
Inﬂammation. regenerative and biopsy site changes

Ancillary Studies: Blocks CS and C10 an be used for additional studies, it
needed.

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP

Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCCIUICC TNM. 7th
edition.

D. Left pelvic lymph nodes. iymphadenectomy:
- Metastatic urotheliai carcinoma in one of three lymph nodes (1I3)

E. Right pelvic lymph nodes. lymphadenectomy:
- Metastatic urothellal carcinoma in two of three lymph nodes (213)

NotePart C: Sections show a large urothellal tumor extensively involving all
bladder walls and extending into the prostatic urethra. The tumor extends along
prostatic urethral urotheiium and shows areas of focal (urethral) lamina propria
invasion but no involvement of the prostatic stroma itself. Tumor invades
through the bladder muscularis propria into perivesical adipose tissue (pTa).

The tumor shows prominent micropapillary areas with back to back iacunar spaces
containing small tumor nests comprising
60% of tumor. Areas of vascular and

H . - Pagc20f6

perineurai invasion are seen.

Multiple deeper sections are obtained in the evaluation of this case.
Select slides from the case are reviewed with Dr.

Clinical History

Bladder cancer
Cystoprostatectomy with ureteroiieal conduct

Source:

A: Right distal ureter for margin
B: Left distal ureter for margin
C: Bladder and prostate

D: Left pelvic lymph node

E: Right pelvic lymph node

Gross Description

Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name
and designated "right distal ureter for margin". The specimen consists of a
pink-tan segment of ureter 0.2 cm in length. 0.4 cm in diameter.

Section key:

A1 - specimen entirely submitted

Specimen B Is received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient‘s name
and designated “left distal ureter for margin". The specimen consists of a
single pink-tan and segment of ureter 0.2 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter.
Section key:

B1 specimen entirely submitted

Specimen C
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder. prostate, seminal vesicles. and vas deferens

The patients name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.

Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

leatlve: Received fresh. subsequently placed in formalin (tissue procurement
retained a sample of tumor)

Dimensions:

Bladder: superior to interior 8.0 cm. left to right 7.0 cm. anterior to

posterior 4.5 cm. ureter stumps (left 1.0 cm in length. 0.8 cm in diameter.

right 1.0 cm in length. 0.7 cm in diameter. prostate (apex to base 3.6 cm,
anterior to posterior 3.0 cm. left to right 5.0 cm). lelt smashed seminal

vesicle 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm; right attached seminal vesicle 2.0 x 1.5 x 2.0 cm;
left attached vas deferens 4.0 cm in length. 0.3 cm in diameter. right attached
vas deferens 4.0 cm in length. 0.3 cm in diameter.

Description of ﬁndings:

Tumor. Large fungating, friable. pink-tan micropapillary mass invading the
entire bladder. no normal appearing bladder mucosa identiﬁed. The bladder mass
extends into the prostattc urethra to within 1.5 cm of the urethral margin. The
urethral margin is submitted en face. The bladder mass abuts both ureteral
orifices. The bladder mass measures 7.0 x 6.5 cm and up to 1.5 cm in thickness.
The mass invades the muscularls and into the posterior fat to within 0.5 cm of
the peritonealized posterior surface. The mass does not grossly involve the
seminal vesicles or vas deferens. or prostate.

Unlnvolved mucosa: The entire effacement of nonnai bladder.

Prostate. seminal vesicles and vase deferentia: The prostate parenchyma is
nodular yellow-tan. The seminal vesicles and vas deferentia are grossly

_ Page3of6

unremarkable.

ink code:

Bladder.

Anterior. blue

Posterior: orange

Prostate:

Len side: blue

Right side: orange

Anterior: green

Lymph nodes: No lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed.

Section key:

C1 urethral margin. submitted on face

C2. c3 longitudinal section of prostatlc urethra to prostatic apex. proximal
side

C4 left ureteral oriﬁce

C5 right ureteral orifice

CB left vas deferens margin

CT right vas deferens margin

C8. 09 posterior wall. deepest invasion of tumor

C10 bladder trigone

C11 bladder. lelt lateral wall

C12 bladder, right lateral wall

013 bladder dome

C14 anterior bladder

C15 (:18 representative sections from left side of prostate from apex to base
C19 022 representative sections of right side of prostate from apex to base

Specimen D is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and .
designated "left pelvic lymph nodes“. The specimen consists of three irregular
fragments of tibrofatty tissue 5.0 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Thorough
examination reveals three suspected lymph nodes ranging from 1.0 2.0 cm in

greatest dimension. Two of the lymph nodes are red-brown. One of the lymph nodes
is ﬂnn and oft-white.

Section key:
D1 D3 one bisected lymph node per cassette

Specimen E is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and
designated "right pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of three irregular
fragments of ﬁbrofatty tissue 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Thorough
examination reveals three suspected lymph nodes ranging from 1.5 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. One of the lymph nodes has a diffuse off-white appearance.
The second lymph node has multiple foci of off-white. ﬁrm nodularities.

Section key:

E1 E3 one bisected lymph node per cassette

Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.

A-E. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnoses rendered.
lntraoperative Diagnosis

Time in: I ime out:

QggignRight distal ureter margin: "Negative for invasive carcinoma. focal
BFS1. Left distal ureter margin: “Negative for invasive carcinoma. focal atypla"

Reported to Dr.

“‘Electronlcalli Slined Out By

_ Page 4 of 6
that 5* lo ”ﬁ‘ﬁiﬁwﬁ

