   

TCGA—AF ~2691

 

SPECIMEN

A.
B.
C.
D.

Ovary and fallopian tube, left, excision
Rectum and sigmoid colon

Additional distal margin of sigmoid colon
Appendix

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Rectal cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Left ovary and fallopian tube, excision: Hemorrhagic corpus
luteum cyst.
B. Rectum and sigmoid: Distal margin negative.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section

labeled "A. Left tube and ovary", and consists of a 28 gm,
6 x 3 x 2 cm. ovary and fallopian tube. The ovary contains a 4 cm.
hemorrhagic appearing cyst at one edge. The surface is smooth. It
varies from tan to purple. The attached fimbriated fallopian tube
measures 5 cm. x 1 cm. X 1 cm. and is unremarkable. The specimen is

sectioned and the cystic space contains approximately 5 cc of
hemorrhagic fluid. The cyst wall is lined by organized blood and
otherwise has a smooth lining with some orange areas most suggestive
of a hemorrhagic corpus luteum cyst. No solid areas are identified.
No papillations are identified. A representative portion of the
cyst wall and the adjacent ovary is submitted for frozen section.
Additional sections are submitted for permanent sections with
sections of ovary in 1 through 5 and sections of fallopian tube in
6. RS—G.

B. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"rectosigmoid colon" is a rectosigmoid colon measuring 22 cm in
length. The specimen is partially covered with pink tan smooth
glistening serosa and abundant yellow lobular fat. Retroperitoneal

GROSS DESCRIPTION ;
reflection is 14 cm from the proximal end which is stapled. The
proximal end is inked blue, distal is inked black and the specimen
is partially covered with pink tan smooth glistening serosa and
opened to show a large exophytic friable mass measuring 5.3 x 4.5 x
2 cm“ This comes within 0.1 cm from the distal margin. The distal
margin is submitted for frozen section as is a representative
section of radial margin. The remainder of the mucosa is pink tan
smooth glistening with an average circumference of 4.7 cm. The cut
surface of the tumor shows invasion into the muscularis propria

 

coming within 1.2 cm of the deep margin.. Lymph nodes are grossly
identified in the fat. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Proximal margin: 2 & 3 — representative sections
of tumor to deep margin; 5 — nine possible lymph nodes; 6 — eight
possible lymph node; 7 — three possible lymph nodes.

C. Received unfixed, labeled "additional margin of sigmoid

colon". It consists of a strip of soft pink mucosal
tissue, measuring 1.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. AS—l.
D. Received in formalin, labeled "appendix". it consists

of a vermiform appendix measuring 4.4 cm. in length and 0.6
cm. in diameter. The serosal surface is smooth, tan and glistening.
It has a pinpoint lumen and the wall appears intact. RSs2.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Micro A,C and D performed.

Micro B. The rectal tumor is an invasive moderately

differentiated adenocarcinoma arrising from.a villous
adenoma. The villus adenomoma component is close to the distal
margin. Please see the template below.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): Tumor extends and fills the submucosa without
invading the muscularis propria, pTl.

Proximal margin: Negative for tumomr.

Distal margin: Negative fro tumor.

Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative.

Distance of tumor from closest margin: Adenomatous proliferation is
present to within 0.1 cm. of the distal margin.

Vascular invasion: Negative.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): All 17 lymph nodes negative for
metastatic disease, 0/17, pNO.

Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: None.

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed.

14x2, 3x2, 5, l

DIAGNOSIS

A. Left ovary and fallopian tube, left salpingohoophorectomy 1
Ovary with hemorrhagic corpus luteum cyst.
Attached fallopian tube, no significant pathology.
B. Rectum and sigmoid colon, segmental resection —
Infiltrating moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the
rectum, arising from a villous adenoma. All margins and all 17
regional lymph nodes negative for tumor.
C. Additional distal margin of sigmoid colon, excision —
Anorectal tissue, negative for tumor.
D. Appendix, appendectomy H
Appendix, no significant pathology.

    

