UUID:0702773F-DD32-4CC2-A26C-EDCBB77A6673
TCGA- R—A703-B1A-PR R

Q edacted
lIlillllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllll||||||
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllll i

Ill |
llll ll
Illl lllllllll|Il|||ll||lllllllllllllllﬂllillll'lllliullllllllqIll

It Lbuwawe.so

 

 

l

K Surgical Pathology 1 Final Results]
Surgical Pathology Final

CASE NUMBER: .

DiAGNOSlS: Right adrenal mass (excision): Pheochromocytoma with areas

suggestive of diverged differentiation.

NOTE: lmmunohistochemistry studies were performed and were positive for
Chromogranin, Synaptophysin and 8-100 and negative for C-Kit and NFTP.

The case was reviewed by

The immunoperoxidase tests performed here were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the Specialized Diagnostics

Unit of the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been cleared or

approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has also

determined that suCh clearance or ‘approvai‘isnot-necessanyr—T-his——~~» - _. _ _
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement

Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity

clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL iNFORMATlON: Brief Clinical History: pt with VHL Requester
Name
Requester PhonelPager: Specimen Taken For
Protocol: 01 —Yes
Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: Large right renal mass Post-Operative
Diagnosis:
pheochromocytoma Pro-Operative Diagnosis: Pheochromocytoma

SPEClMENS SUBMlTTED: 1. ADRENAL MASS, RIGHT

GROSS DESCRiPTlON: Received is a single formalin tilled container
labeled with the patient's name. medical record number and “right
adrenal mass". The specimen consists of an 8.7 x 6.1 x 3.6 cm red/brown
nodular piece of tissue with a ribbon of golden-appearing tissue
measuring 2.2 x 0.4 cm, grossly consistent with normal adrenal. The
specimen weighs 90.5 grams. Further examination of the specimen reveals
that the main tumor mass is 6.7 x 6.0 x 3.5 cm with an additional rim of
tissue grossly resembling normal adrenal measuring 7.2 cm in length x
0.8 cm. The external surface is entirely inked in black and the
specimen is bisected to reveal a variegated brown. tan and yellow cut
surface with area of deep red measuring 2.8 cm in greatest dimensions.
Central portions of the tumor measuring 5.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm in aggregate
are procured for : A central portion of tumor, measuring
1.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, is procured for Small sections of grossly
normal-appearing adrenal measuring 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm are procured for

for The procurement was done by on
r. the specimen is received as noted above
and representative sections are submitted in white cassettes for
permanent processing as follows:

t'mitiiicniirii Patient 1min motion. illuminorigzczl ’list‘it'xiillis' :4 iixiwizihi'ud h?! the i Cindi llama. for or is‘ =‘

Requested By: ’ Do not file in Medical Record

 

 

; ' Surgical Pathologz Final Resulle

tumor with capsule
tumor with relation to normal
normal,
area of hemorrhage and firm white area

 

Gross dictated by

No consultants

 
 
  
  

Cr .1 em __

DMSUOQESDWUPVN’NM'V -

«WW...—

Pammy '(umor Ska Cucxepancv
W...— .W‘W‘

x‘ bawfszsigi M‘s-32:1 {Rik/ifaléﬁiwleh L‘nasmzorirmi oiwﬁoyx'c is pru‘nibtmf or ﬂu: iiﬁmm Nmixw V1.3: m1" z-‘J'Ziz

 

Requested By: ' ' 3 Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

