<

   

CGA —A3— 3347

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Kidney, right, radius! nephrectomy:
Rana! ceil carcinoma (see mmor characteristics).

Tumor chmamrisﬁcs:

Histologic type: Rem} ceil urcinoma, clear cell type
Tamar site: Right kidney, mid-podium

Tumor size: 6.5 x 4 x 3-5 cm.

ﬁacmscopic extent of tumor: Tumor minds into paradrenal adipose tissue.

Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes.

Transcapsular invasion: Na-

Rena! vein invasinn: No.

Venacaval invasion: Not messed. _
Adrenal giand: Not invoked by tumor however, the psﬁadmrsai adipase tissue demm entertains of mar.

1
2.
3
4.
5.. Nuciear grade: Fuhrman grade: 2 of 4.
6
7.
8.
9.
10.

Surgiml margin Stains:

1 . Sufi tissue margins: his evidence of maﬁgnancy.
2 . Uremrai margin: No evidence of malignancy.

3 in Vascular ﬁargins; No evidence of malignancy.
Lymph Node Slams:

I
1 . Tom number of lymph nods: examined: One {pmcavai - see part B}. 3

2. Number of lymph noda containing metastatic carcinoma: 1 of 1 (pmcav-al) -
Other Signiﬁcant Findings:

1. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings; Ln foca: areas, the tumor oelis demonstrate a spindlsd morphology, however, may still demonslnhe
cle_a_r cytoplasm and are mam natinterpreted as being sarcomatoiti.
r2. p‘lle stage: p’l‘Ba N1 MK .

‘1

x

i

Staging sheet #1 8

Mymph node, precaval, excision:
'“mﬂatasjaﬁc renal cell carcinoma ‘ ﬁilraﬁng of 1 of 1 lymph node.
/

 

 

 

 

o oonmrs with the diagnosis.

CDhﬁidEaiTS:
A. For quaii'iy assurance, this case is reviewed

  

B. Although a lymph node dissedion is not received, a single lymph node labeled ‘precaxral‘ is received if! surgical pathology. This demonstrates
metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

 

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperathre Diagnosis: Renal mass
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiolog’lc Findings:

SPECIPHEHS:
A. Rigid: kidney
3. Precaval lymph node

 

 

G DESCRI TION:
A. ConlainerA is labs - a ' I consisls of a 158 gram right kidney measuring 10 x 6 5 x 3. 8 om in greatest dimension. The capsule rs tawny,
glistening and displaying an abundant amount of adherent adipose ﬁssue as well as nodular mass in the mid-portion of the kidney The superior pole

also displays an orange brown ﬁrm adrenal gland, measuring 3.5 x 2. D x O. 8 cm as well as a 0 6 an firm grayish nodule adjacent to ll. “lire hilar region
displays abundant adipose ﬁgure with a pardon of ureter measuring 4 cm in length and 0.8 cm in rﬁameler. Bivalving the kidney reveals fat-ﬁlled calyoes
and blunted pyramids with a central tan yelow ﬁrm lobular mass. measuﬁng 6.5 x41) x3.5 cm in greatest dimension. This mass does not appear to

grossly invade the meter or surrounding ‘ o oiher gross lesions are noted. Samples are taken for genomic audios. Representative samples
are submitted in eight cassettes label- and are designated as follows:

 
 

 
 
 

Blood vessels and ureteral margin submitted as block 1; adrenal gland and adjacent grayish nodule 2; inked capsule 3; lesion 4—7; normal renal tissue
8.

B. Container 8 is labeled

ﬂ inhaocassettesla:

 

  

-. d consists of a tan yellow rubbery ﬁrm nodule, 2.0 x 1 .8 x 1.5 cm in'greatest dimension. Samples oflhis nodule are

l

 

 

