SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

Histologic tumor type/subtype: 3 separate tumors of renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, all of the tumors are at least partially cystic.
Sarcomatoid features: None identiﬁed

Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrman grade 2

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 4.0 cm, largest tumor

Tumor focality: Multifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or microscopic):
Capsular invas ion/perirenal adipose tissue: Not involved

Gerota' s fascia: Not involved

Renal sinus: Not involved

Major veins (renal vein or segmental breeches, IVC): Not involved
Ureter: Not involved

Venous (large vessel): Not involved

Lymphatic (small vessel): Not involved

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Gerota' s fascia (nephrectomy): Negative

Renal vein (nephrectomy): Negative

Ureter (nephrectomy): Negative

Adrenal gland: Not present in specimen

Lymph node: None present in specimen

Other significant findings: Moderate to severe arterionephrosclerosis
AJ CC Staging:

pT1a

pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

Clinical History:
left renal mass.

Gross Description:

Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Laparoscopic nephrectomy

Side of specimen: Left

Size and weight of specimen: 360 grams, 13.5 x 8.7 x 5.2 cm nephrectomy, kidney size 11.4 x 5.7 x 5.7 cm.
Orientation: Perinephric soft tissue blue

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Absent

Tumor description/site: Within the inferior pole of the cortex/medulla is a well-circumscribed variegated hemorrhagic and cystic
mass.

Tumor size: 4.0 x 3.3 x 3.3 cm

Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent

Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the kidney: Conﬁned, bulges the capsule but does not extend through it and is 1.0 cm to the perinephric
adipose tissue margin.

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Does not involve
Gerota' s fascia: Does not involve

Renal vein: Does not involve

Ureter: Does not involve

Other organs: Does not involve

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative, 1.0 cm from perirenal adipose tissue margin
Renal vein: Negative

Renal artery: Negative

Ureter: Negative

Description of kidney away from tumor: The remainder of the parenchyma is red/brown with a well-demarcated cortex medulla. Throughout
the cortex are six cysts ranging from 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm in greatest dimension up to 3.1 x 3.0 x 2.6 cm in greatest dimension. One of the
smaller cysts is simple and has an adherent orange material along the inner wall. This cyst is 2.6 cm from the inferior pole mass. The larger
cyst bulged the capsule, are multiloculated and have a wall thickness of 0.1 cm. The inner wall is white and smooth. The cysts

are filled with a scant amount of red/brown mucoid material. The renal pelvis and ureter are unremarkable.

Lymph nodes (hilar): None
Other significant findings: None

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Normal kidney away from tumor and tumor given to tissue procurement foundation.
Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

A1 - Ureter margin, renal artery margin and renal vein margin, en face
A2—A5 - Representative mass closest to the perinephric adipose tissue margin
A6 - Small simple cyst with orange discoloration along the inner wall

A7 - Representative largest cyst from superior pole

A8 - Hilum

A9 - Renal pelvis with normal kidney away from tumor

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by.

 

