UUID: DM437FC- 47(4- 4334- A39E-A13C7GBR0I29DBac
TCGA- 4X- A9FA- -91A- PR

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient: Accession #:
MR #: ‘ Taken.
DOB/Age/Sex: Accessioned:
Visit #: Adm-Disch Date:
Submitting Physician: Reported:

Clinical History and Impression:
Swelling, mass or lump in chest
Diabetes mellitus, myasthenia gravis. anterior mediastinal tumor

 

Specimen(s) Received:
THYMUS

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
THYMUS, THYMECTOMY:

— SPINDLE CELL THYMOMA (TYPE A)

- TUMOR SIZE: 4CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION

- SURGICAL MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR
- SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT

 

SYNOPTIC SUMMARY I03?) »0 , 3

Specimen: Thymus djtqum~7 il’; 74:
Procedure: Thymectomy 4%” if 5?! 3

Specimen Integrity: Intact

Specimen Weight: 140 grams _ _,
Tumor Size: Greatest dimensions: 4 cm 6h .. W706») Q 0 7-0,
+ Additional dimension: 3.2 x 2 cm '
Histologic Type: Spindle cell thymoma (Type A) .«
Tumor Extension: Not identiﬁed ’ y) (,7 /3 LII, L,
Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor

Distance of tumor from closest margin: <1 mm
Treatment Effect: Not applicable
Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Regional Lymph Nodes: No nodes submitted or found
Pathologic Staging for Thymomas: Stage 1:Grossly and microscopically encapsulated (includes

microscopic invasion into, but not through the capsule)

Additinal Pathologic Findings: Age-appropriate involution changes
Benign thymic cyst

Pathologist:

 

 

Printed by: Page 1 of 2

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

* Report Electronically Signed Out *

This electronic signature indicates that the pathologist has personally reviewed the available gross and/or microscopic material and has
based the diagnosis on that evaluation.

Gross Description: , ,

Received fresh, labeled with the patients name and "thymus, white stitch - right upper lobe, black stitch — surface near
pericardium" is an oriented thymectomy specimen oriented by the surgeon and weighing 140 grams. The left lobe
measures 24 x 4.5 x 2 cm. The right lobe measures 26 x 5 x 2 cm. The anterior surface of the specimen is inked blue the
posterior surface is inked black, the superior margin is inked orange the right marginis inked purple the left margin is inked
yellow and the inferior margin is inked red. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a tan-pink, gritty lesion with
lobulated cut surfaces measuring 4 x 3.2 x 2 cm that abuts the inked anterior and posterior margins and _1 cm from the right
margin. The tumor lies 3.5 cm from the superior tip of the right lobe and 17 cm from the inferior tip of the right lobe. The
superior aspect of the lesion shows solid cut surfaces. The inferior aspect of the lesion is cystic. Invasion into the fat is not
grossly identiﬁed. The adjacent thymic parenchyma is tan-yellow, lobulated. Serial sectioning of the specimen does not
reveal prominent lymph nodes. Portions of tissue are saved for future ancillary studies. Sections of the lesion are
submitted, per diagram, in cassettes 1-9. Random sections of the the uninvolved thymic parenchyma are submitted in
cassettes 10—1 1.

Summary of Tissue Submitted for Microscopic Examination Block Detail
# Blogks Designation 95 Description
Part 1] THYMUS 11 N (2) (No Description)
T (9) (No Description)

A} 17 (5

Printed by:
END OF REPORT

 

