[CA “-9" '3

Cwa‘mx tramwa- (24%,,ch 2070])
.9112: ﬁJNlﬂ QW" [m @311 ,Iw ”/9511;

 

 

 

 

....... i -_ i - M-..____.. _ ,_ , as-"

i

 

 

 

 

i UUID:0257F1CF-BEBC-‘BEE-BEEe-CSBBESUﬂJZS

 

 

 

:zPatient Name iMR# ' gObservation Date TCGA-Bs-ASBB-elA-PR Redacted
’ lll lllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE: lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll:llllllll”l:

Diagnosis lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllll l

A. Lymph node, level lX, excision: - No tumor identified (0/3).

B. Lymph node, level Vlll, excisionr— No tumor identified (011).

C. Lymph node. level lV, excision: - No tumor identiﬁed (0/1).

D. Lymph node, level Vl, excision: - No tumor identiﬁed (011). - Calcified hyalinized nodule.

E. Lymph node, level Xll, excision: - No tumor identified (0/1).

F. Lymph node, level Xlll‘, excisionz~ No tumor identified (0/1).

G. Lymph node, level‘Vll, excision:— No tumor identiﬁed (0/4).

H. Lymph node, level Xl, excisionz- No tumor identiﬁed (0/4).

I. Lung, left upper lobe, bronchial margin. excision: No tumor identified (7).

J. Lung, left upper lobe, excision:- Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated. - Tumor measures 7.0 cm in
greatest dimension. — No lymphovascular invasion identified. ~ Surgical bronchial and vascular margins are negative for
malignancy. — Two peribronchial lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2).- Pathologic staging: pT2bNOMx.

Pathologist Comments .
The lung parenchyma adjacent to the squamous cell carcinoma shows a few organizing pneumonia with' BOOP like

features. Review of the frozen section slides of specimen J show the BOOP-like features, but no tumor is identified in
that particular section.

Clinical information: The patient is a year old male with a history of lung cancer.

Frozen Section Diagnosis -
lFSt — Lung, left upper lobe, bronchial margin. excision: - No tumor seen.

JFSl - Lung, left upper lobe. excision: — Fibrotic lung with atypia, no definitive tumor. - Additional sampling on
permanent. (per

Gross Description . g

The Specimens are received in ten containers, each labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number. The
first specimen is further designated as "level lX lymph node". lt consist of two fragments of yellow/tan fibroadipose tissue
measuring 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.2 and 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. Blue surgical dye is noted in one of the tissue fragments. This tissue
fragment is submitted in its entirety in cassette A1, and the remaining tissue fragment is submitted in cassettes A2.

The second specimen is additionally designated as "level Vlll lymph node“. it consist of a fragment of yellow/tan,
fibroadipose tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. A second smaller apparent lymph node is included which measures 0.6
cm in greatest dimension. One dissection of the larger tissue fragment reveals a single possible anthracotic lymph node
measuring 0.6 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in cassette 81.

The third specimen is further designated as “level V lymph nodes". lt consist of a single possible lymph node
measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted whole in cassette C1.

The fourth specimen is additionally designated as "level Vl lymph node". lt consist ofa single gray/tan possible lymph
node measuring 1.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in its entirety in cassette Di.

The ﬁfth specimen is further designated as "level Xll lymph node". it consist of multiple possible gray/tan apparent
lymph node measuring from 0.5 to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted whole in cassette E1.

The sixth specimen is received in a container further designated as "level Xlll lymph node". It consist of single brown-
tan fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in cassette F1.

The seventh specimen is received in a container further designated as "level Vll lymph node". lt consist of multiple
fragments of brown/tan, fibrofatty soft tissue measuring 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm. Dissection reveals four possible lymph nodes
ranging in size from 0.5 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is submitted for microscopic examination.

The eighth specimen is received in a container further designated as "level XI lymph node". It consist of multiple
tan/brown fragments of soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm. Multiple small apparent lymph nodes are identified _
ranging in size from 0.3 to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is submitted for microscopic examination in
cassette H1.

The ninth specimen is received. in a single container further designated “bronchial margin". lt consist of a single
white/tan, fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. This tissue was previously submitted for frozen section
and will be resubmitted in its entirety for permanent section.

The tenth specimen is received in a container further designated as "left upper lobe". It consist of a lobe of lung
measuring 18.0 x 8.5 x 6.5 cm. Also included within the container is an orange cassette marked J1. lt consist of a frozen
section remnant measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm. The frozen section remnant is entirely resubmitted for permanent section
' examination. The specimen has been previously opened to reveal a heterogenous white/tan mass measuring 7.0 x 5.5 x
5.3 cm. The lesion appears to multi focally abut the surface; however, no gross invasion is identiﬁed. The mass shows
multi focal areas of apparent hemorrhage and necrosis. The white/tan mass grossly appears to approach within 0.3 cm of
the nearest stapled surgical resection margin. The staple line is inked blue and removed. Radial section demonstrating
the relationship of the mass to the inked resection margin is submitted in cassette J4. Sectioningthrough the mass
reveals multiple small cavities containing a yellow/brown purulent appearing ﬂuid. A single darkly pigmented apparent
lymph node is identiﬁed in the hilar region which measured approximately 2.1 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm.

Block Summary

A1, A2 - Level lX lymph node

B1 — Level Vlll lymph node

01 — Level V lymph node

D1 — Level Vl lymph node

E1 — Level Xll lymph. node

F1 - Level Xlll lymph node

G1 — Level Vll lymph node, multiple node submitted whole

G2 — Level Vll lymph node, single possible node bisected

G3 - Level Vll lymph node, single possible lymph node submitted whole
H1 - Level Xl lymph node

I1 - Bronchial margin, frozen section

J1 — Left upper lobe, frozen section

J2 - Shave of hilar resection margin

J3 ~ Shave of stapled surgical resection margin

J4—J8 - Representative sections of mass-

J9 — Representative sections of uninvolved lung parenchyma

J10 - Single and large anthracotic lymph node, serially sectioned and entirely submitted

. Microscopic Description: A microscopic examination has been performed.

SP Synoptic Report J: Thorax Lung
SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: left upper lobe
PROCEDURE: Lobectomy
SPECIMEN lNTEGRlTY: Intact
SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Left
TUMOR SlTE: Upper lobe
TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 7.0 cm
TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal
HlSTOLOGIC‘TYPE: Squamous cell carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE: (32: Moderately differentiated
VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION: Not identified
TUMOR EXTENSION: Not applicable
BRONCHIAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

VASCULAR MARGlN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARENCHYMAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARIETAL PLEURAL MARGIN: Not applicable
CHEST WALL MARGIN: Not applicable
TREATMENT EFFECT: Not applicable
LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION: Not identified
LYMPH NODES: Present ‘
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT2b: Tumor greater than 5 cm,
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNO: No regional lymph
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): Not applicable

but 7 cm or less in greatest dimension
node metastasis

   

  

HIPAA
Prim

Case is
Reviewer Initials

 

 
 
  
     

Date Reviewed:

\7

  

