UUID: 86235627- C3E3- 4698- A640- -2FBBCFCOB711d
TCGA- KP-A3WD-01A- PR

mnlmuumm
uummllluIIIIIIiIIIIlIiiIIIIIiIIiIIiIiIIIIIImIIiIWI”IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllIllIllllllllIllIllIlIll

Final Diagnosis:

A. Right upper quadrant biopsy:

Anatomical Pathology

Case:

MRN: '

PHN: I,
Ordering Physician

Fibrous adhesion.

B. Uterus (with cervix), ovaries and fallopian tubes:
1. High—grade serous carcinoma involving the endometrium and an

endometrial polyp.

a. Tumor invades into the outer half of the myometrium to within 3mm

of the uterine serosa.

b. Lymphatic invasion identified.

c. Detached clusters of serous carcinoma within the right tubal

lumen (see comment).

d. Cervix negative for tumour.

. Non—carcinomatous endometrium:
. Myometrial leiomyomas.

0"wa

atrophic.

. Bilateral small ovarian serous adenofibromas.
. Focus of endometriosis on surface of left ovary.

C. Omental biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

D. Pelvic washing:

Comment:

Positive for malignant cells.

One study of patients with endometrial serous carcinomas found a strong correlation
between tumour cells within the tubal lumina and the presence of peritoneal

metastases.

Snyder MJ et al. Transtubal spread of serous adenocarcinoma of the endometrium: An

underrecognized mechanism of metastasis.

. MD (Resident)
, MD (Pathologist)

Int J Gynecol Pathol 2006;25:155-160.

jLDOB

Ckmfnuma SUDM§ “303
mm l6

Clinical History as Provided by Submitting Physician:

Pap serous on endom biopsy

Gross Description:

Sikt—crxdomd'rim C5‘ivl

4/2512.
#0

Received are three containers, each labelled with the patient's name, ﬁﬂﬂlﬂweﬁlhlﬂﬂeer

and demographics.

Container A is labelled, RIGHT UPPER QUADRANT BIOPSY, and consists of an irregular

gray-tan tissue fragment,

0.3 cm in diameter, wrapped and submitted in toto as Al.

Container B is labelled, UTERUS + CERVIX + BIL TUBES + OVARIES, and consists of a
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen.

The specimen weighs 62.4 g.
is tan and smooth.

The uterus measures 8 x 4 x 3.5 cm.
The cervix is grossly unremarkable.

The right ovary measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.3 cm and the attached right fimbriated
The left ovary

fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter.

     
       
 

Primarylumor Site DlS crepa ncv
“1PM Discrepan y ...
Prior Malignancy Hismvy

Dual/Svnchvanou; ,IPr man! No

Casel am ircle): ‘- umnr -

‘01--

   
 
   
 
 

Di agnosi D erePam- ”‘1 -‘f

The serosal surface

measures 2.2 x 1.9 x 1.4 cm and the attached left fimbriated fallopian tube measures 5
cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter. Both ovaries and fallopian tubes are grossly
unremarkable.

On opening the uterine corpus, the endometrium is thickened and involved by tumor
measuring 2 cm in greatest dimension, involving both the anterior and posterior
aspects. The tumor does appear to invade the myometrium to a depth of 0.9 cm (0.3 cm
from the serosal surface of the uterus). A sample from the tumor is taken for
research.

The myometrium measures up to 1 cm in thickness and contains a solitary intramural,
0.3 cm in diameter firm well—circumscribed gray—white myomatous nodule located
anteriorly.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Bl — right fallopian tube fimbria

52 - right ovary

B3 — left fallopian tube fimbria

B4 — left ovary

BS - anterior cervix

B6 — posterior cervix

B7 — posterior cul—de-sac

BB—BlO — endometrial tumor from the anterior wall to show greatest
depth of invasion

Ell—813 — endometrial tumor from the posterior wall to show greatest

depth of invasion
Remainder of the specimen is saved.
Container C is labelled, OMENTAL BIOPSY, and consists of fatty tissue fragments

aggregating to 2.5 cm. Serial sectioning shows unremarkable lobules of adipose
tissue. The entire specimen is submitted as C1-C3.

This user-modiﬁable Microsoft Word document does not constitute a patient report.
It is provided as a tool for research purposes only.

