UUID: DBBHBSS- 72M- 4CDF- B7BE- DDBBlGDGBASeed
TCGA- PG- ASOF- 61A— PR

_...__.____-

Go to... '
Report form

TEST: Surgical Pathologv
Collected Datellllme: _ _ . _

Result Name ‘ Results Unlts Reference Range

Sumlcal Pathology SURGICAL P -
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 1-10 {J 3

See Addendmn ()CUACHI ’ I’M“ (lif‘f’zci

Patient Name: ‘ @

A ' ll '
“stat? #. F...— s a Mania Wh- Wm
Billing Type: 6L7”4;Z>
LO t1

Dog; Pm— (Agez Q“) 4/94/8

Service:F

Gender-

Billinc ﬂ
Taken

Physicienls):

Specimenlsl Received

A; rslciform ligament

B: Gallbladder

c: Tissue next to right common bile duct

D: Right adrenal cortical carcinoma intraceval thrombus
Eu Gorote's fascia

F: Liver

Pachologic Diagnosis

Falcitcrm ligament, biopsy (A):
— Benign tihrcsdipoee tissue.
Gallbladder. excision (B):
- chronic cholecyetitis.
- Chololithiesis.
Tissue next to right common bile duct, biopsy (c):

Benign fibroedipoae tissue.
Adrenal gland. right end intreosvsl thrombus. excision (D):
- Adrenocorticsl carcinoma, see note.
Note: The right adrenal gland weighs 277 grams and measures 10.5
cm in greatest dimension. The neoplasm demonstrates areas or
necrosis with focal venous invasion present. There is
signiticant nuclear atypis present with Irequent mitotic figures.
The lesion does not appear to invade the capsule o: the adrenal
gland. The capsular margins of excision appear free 0:
malignancy. There in thrombus present consisting c: admixed
tumor and hemorrhage This thrombus corresponds to the
clinically described. intracevel thrombus. The neoplastic cells
are immunoreactive to: inhibin, calrotinin, synaptcphysin, and
melsn A; and non-immunoreective for CD99. The
immunohistochemicsl ﬁindings support the above di-gncsis.
Gerots's fascia, biopsy (E):

Benign tibroadipose tissue.
Liver, biopsy (1"):

Hepatic parenchyms with mild macrovesicular steatoeis

' ‘ 3/15
_. - , .ragosuls

and suboapsulsr hemorrhage.

SURGICAL PREHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST:

Specimen: Adrenal gland, resection: received in formalin.
Procedure: Adrenalectomy, total.

specimen Integrity: Intact.

Specimen Size: Greatest dimension 10.5 x 9.5 x 5.0 cm.

Specimen Laterality). Right. '

Tumor Size: 10.5 cm.

Tumor Gland Weight: 277 g.

Histologic Type: Adrenooortical csrcinoma.

Margins: Capsular margins are negative, neoplasm involves
inferior vens cave.

Treatment Effect: Not identified.

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present, large and small vessel.
Perineural Incasionl Not identified.

PATHOLOGIC STAGE: Primary tumor: pTi. Region lymph nodes:

pﬂx. Distal metastasis: Not applicable.

NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution' 5 Cancer Registry as required
tor accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage
is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorpdrste other relevant data. Pathology stage is
only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.

The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon' s
operative report.

Primary Pathologist:

Addendum .
The modified Weiss score of the neoplasm is s. Modified Weiss
scores of greater than 3 suggest malignancy (353? 3002: 26:1612).

Electronically signed Out by

Clinical History
Right adrenal cortical carcinoma.
Intrsopsrutivs Consultation

A: Falciform ligament: Benign (microscopic).
c: Tissue next to right common bile duct: Benign
fibrovascular and adipose tissue (microscopic).

Gross Description

A: Received fresh for frozen section labeled 'fslciform
ligament“ is a 6.5 x 5.5 x 1.5 cm glistening yellow. lobulated
adipose tissue partly surfaced by glistening tan-blue, possible
peritoneum. Sectioning reveals a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm gray-tan
fibrous area. No other suspicious areas are grossly identified.
No discrete masses are grossly identified. The remainder of the
specimen consists of unremarkable yellow-tan fibrofetty tissue.
Representative sections are submitted as labeled: “FS-Al'
suspiciOus fibrous area in total, "Fa-A2" possible peritoneum,
"FE-A3" random sections (three cassettes).

BI Received in formalin labeled "gallbladder" is an intact
8.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm gallbladder with a 1 cm cystic duct. Within
the cystic duct and gallbladder lumen is a 6.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm

. "nun-u...

4/15
rage J 01 .1

aggregate of multiple yellow-green. multifaceted stones ranging
from 0.2 cm to 2.0 cm. The screen is glistening tan—blue. The
adventitia is shaggy, tan-yellow. The walls have uniform
thickness and average 0.1 cm. The mucosa is heterogenous,
green-yellow and varies from granular to flattened. The lumen

margin inked blue (one cassette).

c: Received fresh for frozen section labeled "tissue next to
right common bile duct" is a 2.0 x 1.0 a 0.3 cm aggregate of a
few irregular fragments of yellow-tan fibrofatty tissues. The
specimen is submitted in tote for frozen section in "FB~C1".

D: Received in formalin labeled "right adrenal cortical
carcinoma intracavai‘thrombus" is a disrupted 277 g, 10.5 x 9.5 x
5.0 cm soft mass and a 5.0 x 5.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan
fibrofatty tissue. The mass is focally disrupted and previously
incised. The external surface is predominantly smooth,
heterogenous. yellow-pink. and multifooally shaggy. red-pink.
The mass is inked black and serially sectioned revealing a
heterogenous tan-red. slightly gritty cut surface. On the
surface of the mass is a 5.5 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm remnant of adrenal
gland with a heterogenous golden-yellow cut surface. Within the
adrenal remnant is a 0.4 cm diameter, well-circumscribed rubbery
nodule with a homogsnous tan-pink cut surface. Sectioning
through the separate aggregate of fibrofatty tissue reveals a
homogenous yellow, lobulated cut surface. and a moderate amount
of admixed blood clot. No discrete masses are grossly
identified. Representative sections are submitted as labeled:
“Dlﬂ-"Dﬁ" mass periphery and adrenal gland remnant, "D7'
remainder of adrenal gland remnant and nodule in toto, "DE"
separate aggregate of fibrofatty tissue, "D5'-"Dl0' blood clots
{ten cassettes). The specimen is reviewed by

E: Received in formalin labeled nGerota's fascia" is an 11.0
x 10.5 x 2.5 on aggregate of multiple fragments of yellow.
lobulated adipose tissue, admixed with a minimal amount of blood
clot. Sectioning reveals a homogenous yellow. lcbulated cut
surface. No discrete masses or suspicious areas are grossly
identified. Representative sections are submitted (two
cassettes).

F: Received in formalin labeled "liver" is a 26 g, 7.0 x 6.5
x 1.5 on aggregate of several fragments of disrupted and
hemorrhagic hepatic tissue and yellow, lobulated adipose tissue.
The specimen is serially sectioned. The hepatic tissue has a
heterogenous, tan-green cut surface. The adipose tissue has a
homogenous yellow. lobulated cut surface. No discrete masses are
grossly identified. Representative sections are submitted as
labeled: “Fl"-'F2" hepatic tissue. “so“ adipose tissue (three
cassettes).

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic
findings of this case.

Interpretation performed at

 

, . I . V'

_33a_r_13__ {a /if [3 xx: (' No .‘

niannosis Duvspanq _ _—‘- I“ f"
c a .

 

 

 

 

