can—554769

Material examined:

Left upper lobe, among others

 

Clinical diagnosis and question

Squamous ceE! carcinoma, left upper lobe, asbestos.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Pteura (according to sample vessel received squamous epithelium): ﬂat tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.8 cm, up to
0.2 cm thick, surface predominantiy shiny and red in patches.

2.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed resected left upper lobe measuring 2i x 10 x 6 cm, central bronchus resection plane located
0.5 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the lingular bronchus. At the hilus are 5 partly lesioned grayish-black
nodes between 0.4 and 1.7 cm in size. The lateral region over segments 1 and 2 and also adjacent sections of S3
Show an area of parietal pleura measuring 13 x 11.5 cm that is extensively adhesive in most parts, loosely
attached in other parts and shows plate—like thickening up to 0.3 cm at the caudal margin in an area of max. 2
cm. At the upper margin of the adhesion zone are two interlinked costal segments 6 and 8.5 cm long,
respectively, each clearly resected, and adhesive soft tissue up to 0.5 cm thick. Below the pleural adhesion is a
soft to moderately ﬁrm, pale brown to whitish and centrally markedly soﬁ tumor, max. 6 cm in size, with
unclear demarcation and the main mass iocated in segment 2 and adjacent sections of S1 and S3, extending to
the pleura in the region of the adhesion zone. Truncation of peripheral branches of B2 in the tumor. Section
surfaces of the intercostal soﬁ tissue at the area of site with the lung show a grayish—white area of 1.3 cm; costal
segments do not show macroscopic inﬁltration by the tumor tissue. Tumor spread right up to the caudal margin
of the adhesive part of the pleura. Dorsal pleura over segment 1 at the junction with segment 2 shows patchy
whitish discoloration and thickening in an area of 6.5 cm, where there are isolated metal staples. Rest of
parenchyma inconspicuous. At the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus are three grayish-black nodes
between 1.6 and 2.1 cm. In the subpleurai region of segment 3 is a 3 cm grayish—black node.

3.) Visceral pleura left lower lobe: nine flat or membranous specimens between 0.5 and 3.8 x 2 cm and up to 0.2
cm thick with a partly shiny, partly roughened or vaguely tubercular surface.

4.) Lobar LN (station 12) left: lingula: 2.2 cm lesioned grayish—black node or node part.

5.) Lobar LN (station 12) left lower lobe: 0.5 cm lesioned grayish—black node.

6.) Interlobar LN (station 1 l) Ieﬁ: 0.5 cm lesioned grayish—black node with some surrounding tissue.

7.) Hilar LN (station 10) leftl cm lesioned grayish-black node.

8.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) left: 0.8 cm grayish—black node.

9.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 1.5 cm node with some surrounding tissue, containing further 0.1 cm node.

10.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5) leﬁ: 0.9 cm lesioned grayish—black node.

11.) Lobar LN (station 10) right: 1.5 cm lesioned grayish—black node or node.

Examined:

1.) Rapid section remains,

2.) 2 sections of tumor with remaining parenchyma, 3 sections with pleura in region of adhesion zone (1d
ventral resection margin of pleural tissue color—marked), 2 sections of caudal margin of parietal pleura (color-
marked), 2 sections of plate—like pleura thickening, Sl/2 with whitish pleura, S2 dorsal, node at bifurcation of
bronchus (partly halved, in 2i + j), subpleural nodes in 83 + central bronchus resection line and resection

 

margins of vessels, hilar nodes (2 larger ones mold—segmented + each separate in 2m + n, second~largest halved
in 21), 2 sections of costal segments with grayish-white area,

3.) — 11.) All material (in 3. preparation Iamellated, in 4., 10. + 11. nodes halved in each casc, in 9. larger node
multi-segmented, smaller node isolated),

27 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS, iron staining, decalcification.

Microscopy

Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation -: marked inﬂammation, blood pigment deposit,
individual marked larger cells, but no evidence of carcinoma.

Alter paraffin embedding:

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Locally advanced, peripheral bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated nonkeratinizing squamous
cell carcinoma of the upper lobe of the left lung mainly located in S2. TNM classiﬁcation according to this
picture pT4 pNO pMX R1, IHB. 034.1 M80706.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Pleural tissue with marked chronic inﬂammation, blood pigment deposit and fibrous thickening (sample 1.)).
Extensive tumor necroses. Active chronic organizing pneumonia in the tumor environment. Moderate to marked
active chronic peripheral bronchitis and bronchiolitis. Feel of ﬁbrin-rich and chronic granulating visceral
neuritis over 81. Hypocellular ﬁbrosis zone of the adherent part of the parietal pleura (sample 2.)). Lymph
nodes with uncharacteristic reactive lesions, anthracotic pigment deposits and sclerosis zenes (samples 2.) and
4.) -11.)).

Remark/addendum:

The tumor extends to the adherent part of the parietal pleura and the soft portions of the co-resected parts of the
chest wall. With regard to the localization data, sample 3.) shows a discontinuous spread of the carcinoma
within pleura enlarged by ﬁbrosis and showing ﬁbrinous chronic inﬂammation, although no conclusion can be
drawn as to whether this is a visceral or parietal layer. The resection margins of bronchus and vessels of the
main preparation, the costal segments of the chest wall tissue, the repeat resection material ﬁ‘om the pleura in
sample 1.) and all excised lymph nodes are tumor~free The R1 category is explained by the fact that the tumor
has spread focally as far as resection surface of the adherent part of the parietal pleura adjacent to the chest wall.
No asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes, but much timber-reaching investigations,
especially dust analyses, are needed to determine the asbestos exposure of the lung.

 

