 

 

l
|
|

uuxu: 9517Fa1s- 4ECE- 459D- sasa- E57C26990865d
TCGA- F2- 7273- BlA- PR acted

mwmmmmwmmmmmm
|wmwmmmmhmmlmHmmmmum

Hi |
IMII mnmmmmuulu ||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number :

Diagnosis:

FSA: Liver, biopsy

— Cholestasis, mesothelial lined cyst, no metastatic carcinoma
identified

FSB: Common bile duct margin, excision
— No carcinoma identified

FSC: Pancreatic duct margin, excision
— No carcinoma identified

D: Portal lymph nodes, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/9)

E: Hepatic artery lymph nodes, dissection
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/12 lymph nodes and lymph
node fragments)

F: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy
— Chronic cholecystitis, no stones identified

G: Pancreaticoduodenectomy, Whipple procedure

Tumor Histologic Type: invasive ductal adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: moderate to poorly differentiated
Tumor size: 4.2 cm

Extent of invasion:

Peripancreatic soft tissues: involved (G9)
Duodenum: involved (G14)

Ampulla: involved (G7)

Lymphatic Invasion: present (G12)

Venous Invasion: not identified
Perineural Invasion: present

Surgical Margins:

Pancreatic neck: not involved

Bile duct: not involved

Posterior pancreatic surface (deep radial margin): positive at
site of SMA (G9) and site of portal vein (G11)

Peripancreatic soft tissues: involved posteriorly, see above

 

Proximal (gastric): not involved
Distal (duodenal): not involved

Regional lymph nodes:
Total number with metastasis: 3
Total number examined: 32

Additional pathologic findings: none

AJCC Stage: pT3 le pr

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by at

FSAl: Liver, biopsy
- Liver with bile stasis, mild inflammation and detached
peritoneum versus mesothelial cyst. No malignancy identified.

FSBl: Bile duct margin, excision
— No carcinoma identified

FSCl: Pancreatic duct margin, excision
— Chronic pancreatitis with fibrosis; no carcinoma identified

Drs. at
Drs. at

Frozen Section Pathologist: M.D., Ph.D.

Clinical History:
year—old male with a mass in the pancreatic head and
obstructive jaundice. The mass was not previously biopsied.

Gross Description:
Received are seven appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled “liver biopsy.” The
container holds three beige/tan soft tissue fragments measuring
in aggregate 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm frozen and totally submitted as
FSAl,

Container B is additionally labeled "common bile duct margin.”

 

 

The container holds a 1.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red/beige/tan soft
tissue fragment frozen and totally submitted as FSBl,

Container C is additionally labeled "pancreatic duct margin."
The container holds a 0.9 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red/beige/tan soft
tissue fragment frozen and totally submitted as FSCl,

Container D is additionally labeled ”portal lymph nodes.” The
container holds a 3.5 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm tan fibroadipose soft
tissue fragment with several small lymph node candidates
palpated within ranging in size from 0.2 to 0.6 cm. The
specimen is totally submitted in blocks D1 and D2,

Container E is additionally labeled ”hepatic artery lymph
nodes.” The container holds an aggregate of tan fibroadipose
soft tissue fragments loosely measuring 3 X 2 x 0.7 cm. Several
firm lymph node fragments are palpated within the specimen. The
specimen is totally submitted in blocks E1 and E2,

Container F is additionally labeled "gallbladder." The container
holds a cholecystectomy specimen measuring 8 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. The
serosal surface is pink/tan and smooth with a rough liver bed
resection surface. The mucosa is hemorrhagic, velvety and finely
trabeculated. The wall is uniform 0.2 to 0.4 cm in thickness.
There are no stones. There are scant hemorrhagic luminal
contents. No mucosal or mural lesions are noted.

Block summary:

F1 - resection margin with cystic duct and artery and
representative section from fundus
F2 — representative sections from mid body and neck

Container G is additionally labeled "pancreaticoduodenectomy
with short stitch at uncinate, long stitch at SMA." The
container holds a standard Whipple specimen with the following
measurements: distal stomach 7.5 x 5 cm; portion of greater
omentum attached to stomach 11 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm; duodenum 24 cm in
length x 2.5 cm in average diameter (after fixation); pancreatic
head and neck 6 x 4.5 x 4.5 cm. A long stitch marks the
pancreatic margin at the SMA and a short stitch marks the
uncinate process margin. Inking: common bile duct=yellow,
resection margin at pancreatic neck=blue, uncinate
process=black, peripancreatic soft tissue=green.

The serosal surface of the stomach and duodenum is tan and
smooth. The pancreatic head is very firm. Opening the duodenum
reveals erythematous coarse and thickened mucosa at the ampulla.

 

The remainder of the stomach and duodenal mucosa is beige/tan,
unremarkable, and appropriately folded. The pancreas is
sectioned revealing a 4.2 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm white/tan/yellow solid
firm mass occupying most of the pancreatic parenchyma in the
specimen. The mass has areas of necrotic cystic change along the
dorsal pancreatic surface. The tumor constricts the common bile
duct to lumen diameter of 1—2 mm. It comes up into the ampulla
and undermines the duodenal mucosa. The tumor infiltrates into
the duodenal wall proximal to the ampulla as well, extending up
to and possibly into the submucosa. The tumor does not involve
the pylorus. There is relatively poor demarcation between the
mass and the pancreatic neck. To assess distance to pancreatic
neck margin the resection surface of the neck is inked blue and
sections are taken perpendicular to this surface (true surgical
margin at the neck is superseded by the en face G2 section). The
mass extends to the inked uncinate margin at short stitch and
the margin at the SMA at long stitch. It also abuts
peripancreatic soft tissue. Distance to mucosal margins: stomach
margin 16 cm, duodenal margin 13 cm, common bile duct margin 1.5
cm

A number of firm lymph nodes are identified in the
peripancreatic soft tissue ranging in size from 0.2 to 0.6 cm,
submitted per block summary. Tumor was collected by Tissue
Procurement.

Block Summary:

G1 - common bile duct margin, en face
G2 — pancreatic neck margin, en face
G3 — gastric mucosal margin, en face
G4 — duodenal mucosal margin, en face

G5 — lymph node candidate at the common bile duct, bisected

G6 — perpendicular sections to the pancreatic neck (inked blue)
G7 — ampulla section

G8 - perpendicular margin at uncinate at the surgeon' s short
stitch (black ink)

G9 - perpendicular section at the SMA margin at long stitch
(green ink)

G10—G11 representative sections to green inked pancreatic
surface, G10 near common bile duct, G11

near the portal vein groove

G12 - ulcerated duodenal mucosa at ampulla

G13 — tumor in relation to the common bile duct, two sections
G14 — tumor undermining duodenal wall

G15 — pylorus, representative section

G16 - representative sections of stomach and duodenum

G17 - multiple peripancreatic lymph node candidates
G18 — multiple peripancreatic lymph node candidates at base of
common bile duct

 

 

619 — multiple peripancreatic lymph node candidates
G20~G22 multiple perigastric lymph nodes candidates, each
cassette, greater omentum

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by The frozen
section diagnoses are confirmed.

Permanent sections show invasive ductal adenocarcinoma with mucinous
features within pancreatic head, extending into peripancreatic fat,
extending through the duodenal wall to undermine the mucosa, and
extending posteriorly to the pancreatic posterior soft tissue margin
at the site of the SMA and the portal vein. Definite nodal metastasis
is identified in block G18. Two soft tissue nodules in block G17 are

interpreted as most consistent with complete effacement by metastatic
carcinoma.

