SW... 612. W Mad
Gender: Female V I M QéZ‘ﬂ

DOB:
Race: White %3 7M/5

Report Date:
Pathology Report:

UUID : 835FO0F9-984B-4628-8293-04C1E3219C90
TCGA- FD-A6TC-81A

mIn”:uuuuuuumuuIumu{IliilmmIull'iiﬁl‘liiilte“l

lllllllllllllll|lllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Surgical Pathology Report I“ llllllllllllllllllllllllHllllHlllllllllllllllllllllillilllllilll

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Urinary bladder; radical cystectomy, anterior vaginectomy and right
salphingo-oophorectomy:

- Bladder with invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma, invading through the
muscularis propria, and into the perivesicular fat and vaginal wall, see
pathologic parameters.

- Urothelialcarcinoma in-situ involving bladder dome and posterior wall
mucosa.

- Ovary with age-related changes.

- Fallopian tube, no tumor.

- Margins, free of tumor.

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/8).

C. Leﬁ pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/8).

D. Left distal uretheral margin; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

E. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

,2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Adjacent organ: Vaginal wall.

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 2.5 cm, posterior bladder wall extending to
perivesical fat and vaginal wall.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/ 16). .
9. pTNM: pT4a,N0,MX

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, H, MD, PhD
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old female clinical history of bladder cancer who undergoes
cystectomy, ileo conduit N. retroperitoneal lymph node dissection.

Specimens Received:

A: Bladder

B: Right pelvic lymph nodes
C: Left pelvic lymph nodes

D: Left distal uretheral margin
E: Right distal ureter

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record nLunber.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder". Received fresh

and place in formalin is a 145.08 g cystectomy specimen with overall
measurements of 12.5 x 11.0 x 3.7 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 3 cm in
length and 0.4 cm in diameter, and the leﬁ measures 2.5 cm in length and 0.7 cm
in diameter, and both demonstrate intact patent lumens. The serosal surface
shows yellow, lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact. There

is a 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm matted area on left posterior bladder held together by a
suture which is removed to reveal a 1.6 x 0.9 cm defect and a 4.0 x 3.5 cm area
of peritoneal discoloration on the right side adjacent to the dome. There is a

7.4 x 7.0 cm portion of tan-pink vaginal mucosa ﬁxed on the posterior aspect of
the bladder. The urethral margin is inked black, and the bladder is inked blue

on the right half and black on the left half. The bladder measures 6.0 x 5.5 x

2.5 cm. The specimen is opened anteriorly to reveal a 2.5 x 1.7 cm red-tan,
hemorrhagic, friable, ulceration located in posterior wall within an ill-deﬁned

4.1 x 3 cm area of intimation. On cut section, the mass is white-tan,

indurated, and extends through the muscularis propria and pericystic adipose
tissue and abuts the deep surgical margin (i.e. 2.5 cm of 2.6 cm of the total
thickness of the specimen). Inferiorly, the intimation also appears to abut the
vaginal wall. The surrounding bladder mucosa is wrinkled, congested, pink-tan
with a uniform 0.5-0.9 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent
to the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
A1: Leﬁ ureter

A2: Right ureter

A3: Urethral margin

A4: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
A5: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall
A6: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
A7—A10: Bladder mass/Ulceration

Al 1—A13: Bladder mass abutting the vaginal wall
A14 Fallopian tube

A1 5-A16 Ovary

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.0 x 4.5 x 0.9 cm aggregate
of soft, rubbery, yellow-tan tissue fragments that are dissected for
approximately 10 lymph node candidates are submitted as follows

Bl: Two lymph node candidates

BZ: One lymph node candidates, bisected

B3 B4: One lymph node candidates, bisected, one half in each cassette

B5: Five lymph node candidates

B6: One lymph node candidates, bisected

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.0 x 3.5 x 1.1 cm aggregate
of soft, rubbery, yellow-tan tissue fragments that are dissected for
approximately 9 lymph node candidates are submitted as follows

C1: Five lymph node candidates

C2: One lymph node candidates, bisected

C3: One lymph node candidates

C4: One lymph node candidates, bisected

C5—C6: One lymph node candidates, bisected, one half in each cassette

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "leﬁ distal ureteral
margin stitch on margin side ". Received in formalin is a 2.3 cm in length by
0.9 cm in external diameter segment of ureter. There is a stitch on the
non-margin side. The serosal surface of the margin side is inked black. The

margin side of the ureter and a representative section are submitted in cassette
D1.

E. The ﬁﬁh container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right distal ureter,

stitch on margin side". Received in formalin is a 2.9 cm in length by 0.5 cm in
external diameter segment of ureter. The non—margin side is indicated with a
suture. The margin side is inked black and is submitted with a representative

section of the ureter in cassette E1.

    
 
   
 
 

49M magnify

 

wrest-"5L!

 

