UUID: F475FD14-8983-4137-951E-CAE6C2AC8873
TCGA- 26- AAKD- 01A-

IIIIII IllIIIII'I'I'Il II

II ll“"""'III"llllleil'ﬁl'te"

£62593“;th
’“ 0,43 gale/126: m

Concerning

Summary pathology report

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (EC 70%. YST 30%, trophoblastic giant cells); diameter 5.5
cm; angio—invasion present; invasion of rete testis unknown; tumor conﬁned to testis.

Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy):

pathologist

professor of pathology

m 755 dz mommy 1"“
71:9» Maw 4““
no (”a m "L11,

    

i931

Prior

Reviewer initials Date Reviewed:

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4. {)0

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T85): T53 Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: __
Completed By (Interviewer Name Completed Date: _ __
Diagnosis Information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis / histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis EC (7 0 is ) ' YST (3 0 3;) the initial pathology report for this case. lithe histology for
1 Provided on Initial this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
. . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
EC 1
HIStomglc featuﬁes 0f ( O 0 %) Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 the sample provrded
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 Provide the reason for Due to the histological heterogeneous Provideareason describingwhythe diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy constitution of non-seminars! the Eligiiisysﬁ‘éfgﬂrntl‘ii“$2.15é‘é‘JS’JSlflye'Eiﬂilim
between the pathology representation of the different .
report and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected
C359 Quality Control to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form. samples of the same case.

However, the components are monoclonal
in origin.
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case

4 Pathologist or forTCGA'

Biorepository Director

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. TheAttending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

