Page 1 of 3

SURGICAL PAT‘

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PATIENT:

Hospital No.:
Date of Birt
Soc. Sec. No.
Location:

Pathologist:
Assistant:

Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS:

l: UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:
—Cervix:
—Chronic endocervicitis
—Nabothian cysts
—Negative for malignancy
~Endometrium:
-Non~phasic atrophic endometrium
—Endometrial polyp with complex hyperplasia and focal high
grade and anaplastic mullerian-derived adenocarcinoma (see
Comment)
—Focal metastatic nodules on the posterior serosal aspect
~Myometrium:
—Adenomyosis
-Leiomyoma

2: OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, LEFT, SALPINGOMOOPHORECTOMY:
—High grade mullerian~derived adenooarcinoma involving the ovary
and fallopian tube

3: OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, RIGHT, SALPINGO—OOPHORECTOMY:
—High grade mullerian—derived adenocarcinoma, (see Microscopic
Description and Comment) involving the ovary and fallopian tube

4: OMENTUM, NUMBER 1, PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:
«Metastatic mullerian—derived adenocarcinoma

5: LYMPH NODE, PELVIC, LEFT, EXCISION:
—Five (5) lymph nodes with reactive follicular hyperplasia, sinus
histiocytosis and focal caloifications
—Negative for malignancy

5: LYMPH NODE, RIGHT EXTERNAL ILIAC, EXCISION:
"One {1) lymph node with reactive follicular hyperplasia
~Negative for malignancy

7: OMENTUM, NUMBER 2, PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:
~Metastatic mullerianwderived adenooarcinoma

MICROSCOPIC:
The tumor shows features of a high grade mullerian—derived
adenocarcinoma, papillary serous type. The possibilities that this

 

Page2of3

represents primary uterine papillary serous adenocarcinoma with
metastases, or multifocal papillary serous adenocarcinoma with
involvement of the bilateral ovaries, endometrium, and right
fallopian tube should be considered. The latter scenario is

favored. Selected slides were reviewed by —

concurs with the interpretation.

GROSS:

l: UTERUS

Labeled “uterus" and received in formalin is a 410 gram enlarged
uterus without attached bilateral adnexa. The uterus is 9.0 cm fundus
to cervix, 6.0 cm cornu to cornu, and 4.5 cm anterior to posterior.
The serosa is diffusely congested with numerous dark red fibrous
adhesions. The cervix is 3.5 x 3.0 cm with a small attached vaginal
cuff ranging from 0.5 cm posteriorly to 1.0 cm anteriorly. The mucosa
is smooth focally hyperemic and surrounds a patent 0.1 cm os. The
squamo-columnar junction is ill—defined. The endocervical canal is
2.5 cm in length, tan and rugose with numerous nabothian cysts
measuring up to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The endometrial cavity
is 4.0 cm superior to inferior, and 3.0 cm laterally. The endometrium
is tan, smooth up to 0.1 cm in thickness with two, pink-tan friable
polypoid lesions on the left lateral aspect of both the anterior and
posterior walls which are 0.5 and 1.0 cm in greatest dimensions
respectively. There is a also a firm 1.0 x 0.5 cm sessile polypoid
lesion on the fundus. The coarsely trabecular pinkvtan myometrium is
up to 1.7 cm in thickness. There is a single 1.3 cm in diameter
subserosal leiomyoma which has a typical grey—white whorled
appearance. Representative sections are submitted.

A. Anterior cervix — 1

B. Posterior cervix - 1

C. Anterior uterine corpus, full thickness including serosal :
adhesions - l E

D. Posterior uterine corpus, including serosal adhesions ~ 1 i

E. Anterior uterine fundus with polypoid lesion — 1 i

F. Posterior uterine fundus with polypoid lesion — 1

G. Fundic endometrium nodule — l

H.

2: LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled “left tube and ovary", received fresh in the Operating Room
and subsequently fixed in formalin is an enlarged 8.5 cm long
fimbriated fallopian tube with a maximum diameter of 3.0 cm. The
serosa is red—tan with numerous fibrous adhesions. Upon sectioning,
the lumen is filled with tan, friable lobulated tumor. The fimbriated
end is tan—red and is also involved by tumor. There is an underlying
5.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm disrupted friable tumor mass which has numerous
fibrous adhesions. Upon sectioning in this region, the mass is
predominantly solid, homogeneous and lobulated with a few cystic
spaces measuring up to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. The cysts are
thin and smooth and predominantly thin walled with a 0.6 cm
excrescence and contain a small amount of bloody fluid. There is no
grossly identifiable residual ovarian parenchyma remaining.
Representative sections are submitted.

Fundic subserosal nodule and adhesions — 3

I,J. Fallopian tube with tumor — 1 each

K. Underlying mass with cystic spaces — 2 I
L. l l
3: RIGHT OVARY i
Labeled “right ovary" and received in formalin is a 480 gram, 13.0 x ‘
10.5 x 8.0 cm fluctuant bosselated ovary. The external surface is I
covered by numerous red—tan tumor implants and fibrous adhesions as !
well as a 6.5 x 1.0 cm convoluted fimbriated fallopian tube. The
external surface of the fallopian tube also is covered by tan—red ,
tumor. There is an adjacent 2.0 cm smooth thin walled paratubal cyst.
Upon sectioning, the fallopian tube has a stellate patent lumen. \

 

Page 3 of3

The cut surface consists of approximately 70% solid tan lobulated
tumor with multifocal areas of hemorrhage and necrosis and 30% is
cystic. The cysts are filled with a red tinged serous fluid. There
is also a small amount of gelatinous matrix in both the solid and
cystic components. Representative sections are submitted.

M. Fallopian tube with paratubal cyst and tumor — 2

N,O. Solid and cystic component — 2 each

9,9. Solid and cystic component in relation with external tumor
nodules — 2 each

4: OMENTUM no.1

Labeled Romentum no.1“ and received in formalin is a 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.0
cm aggregate of tanuyellow lobulated fat. Upon sectioning, the cut
surfaces are tan-yellow lobulated and fatty with a single 0.4 cm
segment of firm tan—grey tumor.

Representative sections are submitted.

R. Multiple

5: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled "left pelvic lymph node“ and received in formalin is a 3.0 x
2.0 x 0.5 cm aggregate of tan—yellow lobulated fat containing four,
firm, tan—red lymph nodes ranging from 1.0 to 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

S. 5

6: RIGHT EXTERNAL ILIAC NODE

Labeled “right external iliac node" and received in formalin is a 2.0
x 1.7 x 1.0 cm aggregate of tan-yellow lobulated fat containing a
single 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm congested lymph node.

All embedded.

T. 1

7: OMENTUM No.2

Labeled "omentum no. 2" and received in formalin is a 15.0 x 12.0 x
2.0 on aggregate of multiple fragments of omentum. Upon sectioning,
the cut surface is tan—yellow, lobulated and fatty with five, firm,
tan tumor nodules ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension

which involve approximately 10% of the cut surface.

Representative sections are submitted.

U. 4

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
Bilateral ovarian, left ovarian tumor

M‘dem‘i

1 n

 

 

