UUID: 9CD8EA72- 6DF6— 4DDG- 5F32- 610A897C9EOeD
TCGA- FD- ASBV- 01A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItad
IllIIIIllIllIlIIlIIIIlIlIllIllIlIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||||||||||||||I||||||||I|||||||||||

Gender: Female
Race: White

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- Seventeen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/17).

B. Leﬁ pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/8).

ZC;D'O“~3

(jam/norviac, arm ﬁle/ma.) Aé/Ofo)5

PaﬂS 77:: Bladder Allan} (1)40],
Posh; ”>0" wad/anal)" 7717051L

‘ €57?
CQCF $171; Bladder, 7;,90né Cé7‘ZD

9b.), 5/24}! Z

C. Urinary bladder; robotic-assisted laparoscopic cystectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma invading thru the bladder wall
and into the perivesical tissue, see pathologic parameters.

D. Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries; total
abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:

- Uterus with atrophic endometn'um, no tumor.

- Bilateral ovaries with age related changes, no tumor.

- Bilateral fallopian tubes, no tumor.
- Cervix, no tumor.

E. Vermiform appendix; appendectomy:
- Appendix, no tumor.

F. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

G. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 6.0 cm, mass at left lateral wall, trigone and
posterior wall with focal extensions to dome and right lateral wall.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/25).

9. pTNM: pT3b,N0,MX.

Effective ‘ . , . .‘his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging

system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (U ICC).

xx

[1 MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD

Electronically Signed Out by [], MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a . year-old female with invasive hi gh- grade urothelial carcinoma of
the bladder undergoing robotic assisted laparoscopic cystectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph node

B: Left pelvic lymph node

C: Bladder

D: Uterus, cervix, and fallopian tubes
E: Appendix

F: Leﬁ distal ureter

G: Right distal ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in seven containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "1. Right pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate
oflobulated yellow tibrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph
nodes to reveal 17 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5-1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Al: 4 candidate lymph nodes

A2: 4 candidate lymph nodes

A3: 4 candidate lymph nodes

A4: 5 candidate lymph nodes

B. The second container is additionally identified as, "2. Left pelvic lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4 x 4 by 2.5 cm aggregate of
lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes

to reveal 9 apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.4—1.8 cm in greatest dimension.
All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

B1: One candidate lymph node, bisected

BIZ: 4 candidate lymph nodes

B3: 4 candidate lymph nodes

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "3. Bladder ". Received
fresh and place in formalin is a 214.8 g cystectomy and urethrectomy specimen
with overall measurements of 13 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm. The bladder measures 7 x 6.5 x
4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.4 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter,
and the left measures 1.2 cm in length by 0.8 cm in diameter, and each
demonstrates an intact patent lumen, although the left ureter demonstrates
resistance to probing. The attached urethra measures 4.6 cm in length by 0.7 cm
in diameter with a 7.5 x 2.5 cm portion of tan-pink skin anteriorly and tan-pink
vaginal mucosa posteriorly. The serosal surface shows yellow lobulated
ﬁbroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact. The bladder is inked blue on

the right half and black on the left half. The specimen is opened anteriorly to
reveal a 6 x 5.2 cm area of induration with partially ulcerated and heaped up,
hemorrhagic mucosa involving the entire left lateral wall, posterior wall, and
trigone and surrounding both right and left ureters. On cut section, the
induration extends through the muscularis propria and into the perivesical
adipose tissue, where it abuts the deep margin. The surrounding bladder mucosa
is granular and pink-tan with a uniform 1 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral
oriﬁces, adjacent to the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent, although the
left ureter demonstrates resistance to probing. The urethral mucosa is tan-pink
and glistening, with no lesions. Photographs are taken.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

C1: Left ureter resection margin

C2: Right ureter resection margin

C3: Distal urethral margin

C4-C6: Representative sections of urethra, ﬁill thickness to anterior
vaginal wall

C7—C8: lnduration, posterior wall, tandem sections, with closest
approach to deep margin (C8)

C9: lnduration, posterior wall

C 10: lnduration, left lateral wall

Cl 1: lnduration, trigone

C12: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome

C13: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall

C14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa right lateral wall

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4. Uterus, cervix,

tubes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 42.9 gm hysterectomy specimen
with attached bilateral adnexa. The uterus measures 3.2 cm from fundus to lower
uterine segment by 3.2 cm from cornu to cornu by 2.3 cm from anterior to
posterior. The serosal surface is red-tan and glistening. The cervical face is
pink-tan, glistening and measures 2 x 1.9 cm with a 1 cm slitlike 05. The

anterior surface is inked black and the posterior surface is inked blue. The
specimen is opened revealing a 2.7 cm endocervical canal lined with tan-pink
mucosa a triangular endometrial cavity measuring 0.7 cm from cornu to cornu by
1.2 cm in length and lined with tan-pink, endometrium measuring 0.1 cm in
thickness. The specimen is sectioned reveal pink-tan myometrium which is up to
0.7 cm in greatest thickness.

The left adnexa structure consists of an 8 cm long and 0.4 cm diameter
ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink—red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2 x 1.6 x 0.8 cm and is
sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan, ovarian stroma.

The right adnexa structure consists of a 6 cm long and 0.5 cm diameter
ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2.3 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm and is
sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan ovarian stroma.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1: Anterior cervix

D2: Posterior cervix

D3: Anterior endomyometrium

D4: Posterior endomyometrium

D5-D6: Sections of left ovary and fallopian tube
D7: Section of right ovary and fallopian tube

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "5. Appendix". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 7 cm in length by 0.6 cm in external diameter
verrniform appendix. The resection margin is inked blue. The serosal surface is
tan-pink and smooth. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a wall
thickness of 0.1 cm. The lumen is patent with soft tan-brown material.
Representative sections of the body, resection margin, and longitudinal
appendiceal tip are submitted in E1.

F. The sixth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "6. Left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a tan, soft portion of ureter measuring
0.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is oriented with a stitch
on the non—margin side. The margin is inked black and the specimen is bisected
and entirely submitted as F1.

G. The seventh container is additionally identiﬁed as, "7. Right distal
ureter". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft, tan portion of ureter
measuring 2.5 cm in length by 0.6 cm in diameter. The specimen is oriented with

a stitch on the non-margin side. The margin is inked black and the specimen is
serially sectioned and entirely submitted as G1.

xx
UshAD

Nu

 

 

Criwla \N‘) \2’\}$\_\:_I ‘5'

Diagnosis Discrepancy

 

Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy

 

 

HIPM Discrepancy I

 

Prior Malignancy Hlslory

 

 

 

Dual/Synchronous Pﬁllvlm

 

§\'\'\\

 

 

 
  

Caiei ti 1:): QUALIr-IED
Review ni‘

 
   

 

 

 

 

