 

 

S ecimen 3 Received ,

1. Soft-Tissue: left lateral tongue margin Quick section
2. Soft-Tissue: left anterior tongue margin

3. Soft-Tissue: left posterior tongue margin

4. Soft-Tissue: deep margin

5. Soft-Tissue: left alveolar margin

6. Soft Tissue: Contents of leftneck I

7. Oral Cavity: Left subtingual gland

8. Oral Cavity. Contents left tongue & ﬂoor of mouth short suture anterior long suture posterior nylon double long suture inferior
9 Soft Tissue. Revised: Deep margin single chip anterior double chip posterior triple chip inferior

 

Diagnosis
1. Left lateral margin.
Negative for malignancy.

2. Left anterior margin.
Negative for malignancy.

3. Left posterior margin. .
Negative for malignancy.

4. Deep margin.
Negative for malignancy.

5. Left alveolar margin.
Negative for malignancy.

6. Left neck contents:
Twenty nine lymph nodes negative for tumour (0/29).
Submandibufar gland with no pathologic changes.

7. Left sublingual gland.
Salivary gland tissue with mild chronic sialadenitis.
Negative for malignancy.

8. Oral cavity' left tongue and floor of mouth.
Squamous cell carcinoma. poorly differentiated.
a. Maximal tumour dimension 2.8 cm.

b. Tumour thickness 0.9 cm.

 

 

Page 1 of 3

 

 

c. No perineurai invasion.

cl. No vascular/lymphatic invasion.

e. Moderate to severe squamous dysplasia is present.

f. All margins negative for tumour. a

9. Revised deep margin.
Negative for malignancy.

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type: ' ResectionzPartial glossectomy
Tumor Site:. Tongue
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.8 cm

Tumor thickness: 0.9 cm
Histologic Grade: (32: Moderately differentiated
Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion NIL): Absent
Perineural Invasion. Absent
Additional Palhologic Findlngs:- None identified
Margins. Margins uninvolved by tumor

Margins uninvolved by tumor— Distance of tumor from closest margin: 0.4 cm
_ - Margins: deep
Pathologlc Staging (pTNM): pT2: Tumor of lip or oral cavity more than 2 em but not more than 4 cm in
. greatest dimension

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis for aerodigestive sites
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 29
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0

pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

 

 

Gross Description . . . . ..
t. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Soft-Tissue: Left lateral tongue margin qmck sectIon . It

consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in into for frozen
section.
1A frozen section control

2. The Specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Soft-Tissue: Left anterior tongue margin”. It consists of a
fragment of tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen sectIon.
2A frozen section control

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Soft-Tissue: Left posterior tongue margin". it consists of a
fragment of tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
3A frozen section control

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Soft-Tissue: Deep margin". it consists of a fragment of tissue
measuring 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
4A frozen section control

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Soft Tissue: Left alveolar margin". it consists of a fragment of
cm. The specimen is submitted In toto for frozen section.

 

Page 2 of3

 

 

5A frozen section control

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “Soft Tissue: Contents of left neck". it consists of an oriented
left neck dissection with dimensions of 10.7 x 11.0 x 1.5 cm. Two portions of unremarkable muscle are identified and
measure 2.4 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm and 2.8 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm. The submandibular gland measures 3.8 x 2.9 x 1.4 cm and is
unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 to 2.5 cm are identified in multiple levels. Representative sectIons
are submitted as follows: ' .

6A one lymph node. level IA

SB one lymph node, level IA

SC one lymph node. level lA

SD submandibular gland

(SE-66 one lymph node per block, level 13

SH two lymph nodes, level llB

6| one lymph node. level “3

6J one lymph node, level llA

6K one lymph node. level ilA

6L one lymph node, level tlA

6M multiple lymph nodes, level lll

6N two lymph nodes. level Ill

60-6P one lymph node per block, level lll

ESQ-SR multiple lymph nodes per block, level IV .

as one lymph node. level IV t

6T _ one lymph node, level IV

7. The specimen is labeledwith the‘pallent's name and as "Oral Cavity: Left sublingual gland". it consists of one piece of
tissue measuring 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm.’
7A specimen in toto

8. The specimen is labeled the patient's name and as "Oral'Cavity: Contents left tongue & floor of mouth short suture
anterior, long suture posterior. nylon double long suture inferior'. It consists of an oriented portion of left lateral tongue
measuring 3.0 cm SI x 1.0 cm ML x 4.7 cm AP. There is a well-circumscribed tumor involving the left lateral surface of the
tongue. The tumor measures 2.1 cm SI x 1.2 cm ML x 2.8 cm AP. The tumor is solid and firm and is located at the lateral
margin, 0.2 cm from the medlalldeep margin, 0.6 cm from the superior margin, 0.4 cm from the inferior margIn. 0.6 cm
from the anterior margin. and 0.5 cm from the supero-posterlor margin. Cross sections reveal a portion of left subllngual
gland, measuring 1.4 cm St x 0.6 cm Mt. x 2.0 cm AP. All the margins of the specimen are painted with Silver nitrate.
The superior aspect is also painted green. Two pieces of tumor and one piece of normal tongue are taken for the issue
bank. Representative sections are submitted.

8A anterior margin and tumor

86-8C one full thicknesssectlon of tumor

8D-8E one full thickness section of tumor

8F-8G tumor

8H supero-posterior margin and tumor

9. The specimen is labeled the patient's name and as "Soft Tissue: Revised: Deep margin single clip anterior, double clip
posterior, triple clip inferior". it consists of an unremarkable portion of tongue measuring 2.5 cm SI x 0.9 cm ML x 4.0 cm
- AP. The margins of the specimen have been painted with Silver nitrate. The specimen is submitted in toto.

9A anterior margin, en lace

98-96 remaining specimen. anterior to posterior

9H posterior margin, en face

 

 

Page 3 of 3

 

 

