t

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

  

w.

-.£ara-aonic lymph nodes: 0/3 lymph nodes with metastatic tumor.

l
, . SURGICAL PATHoLozY REPORT ”“m‘iéésffﬁﬁl‘féiei’ﬁg‘iff'“‘°9“““§‘;dacted
- Ill II II i III I II I Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I lllllll III III III
Service Date: , Sex: Female Received: ||||||l|||l||||l|||||||||||ll||||ll||||lllll||llllllllllll
lllllllllllllllllllllllll||||lll|ll||l|||||||||||l|l||l|||||||||
A. Left ovary, oophorectomy: Papillary serous carcinoma, poorly differentiated with focal
sarcoma pattern (carcinosarcoma), see comment.
Left fallopian tube, salpingectomy: Serous carcinoma, poorly differentiated, surface
implant.
B. Right ovary, 'oophorectomy: Serous carcinoma, poorly differentiated, see comment.
C. Left periaortic lymph node, excision: Metastatic carcinoma identified in one of three
nodes (1/3).
D. Uterus, hysterectomy:
Endometrium:
1. Inactive endometrium.
2. Benign endometrial polyp.
Myometrium: Leiomyomata.
Serosa: Metastatic serous carcinoma.
Cervix: Metastatic serous carcinoma in paracervical tissue.
Right fallopian tube, salpingectomy: Metastatic serous carcinoma.
E. Sigmoid colon, biopsy: Metastatic serous carcinoma.
F. Omentum, omentectomy: Metastatic serous carcinoma.

G. Periaortic lymph nodes, excision: No carcinoma identified in two nodes (0/2).
Page 1 of4

" . Left pelvic lymph node, excision: Metastatic carcinoma identified in one node (1/1).

1. Right periaortic lymph nodes, excision: No carcinoma identified in two nodes (0/2).

J. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision: Metastatic carcinoma identified in one of two
nodes (1/2).

COMMENT:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

Type of tumor: The tumor is predominantly serous carcinoma; however, extensive areas of solid growth
are present and areas of endometrioid and clear cell patterns are noted. Additionally a focal 1.1 cm
sarcomatous area (slides, A4,A5) is noted (see below for further discussion of this focus).

Grade of tumor: III. ‘

Site of tumor: Bilateral.

Location of tumor: Intraovarian.

Condition of capsule: Indeterminate (the capsule of both ovaries arrived ruptured; it is not clear if the
capsule was transected in the OR or if the capsule was ruptured).

Cut surface: Solid and cystic.

Necrosis: Moderate.

Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Lymphatic space invasion present.

Sites of metastasis in pelvis: Right and left fallopian tube, uterine serosal surface, paracervical soft
tissue, sigmoid colon; maximum diameter of largest pelvic metastasis = 2.0 cm (adherent to right
fallopian

tube).

Pelvic lymph nodes: 2/3 lymph nodes with metastatic tumor.

Sites of metastasis in abdomen: Omentum; maximum diameter of largest abdominal metastasis = 8.0
cm.

‘~ 3/ eritoneal cytology: (Ascitic fluid : Metastatic adenocarcinoma).

SURGICAL PATHOLUEY REPORT ,

Other abnormalities: None.
FIGO stage: IIIc.
SQI'NM stage: pT3cN1Mx.
wComment: Immunoperoxidase stains were performed on the sarcomatous element. This focus stains
strongly for vimentin and shows only focal staining for keratin. This staining pattern supports an
interpretation of sarcoma rather than sarcomatoid carcinoma, thus a small (1.1 cm) sarcomatoid focus is
present (carcinosarcoma). Given the small Size of this focus, it will likely have little effect on the overall
prognosis. has reviewed this slide (A5) in the immunohistochemical results and concurs with
this interpretation.
Specimen(s) Received
A:Left ovary (FS)
BzRight ovary
CzPeriaortic lymph nodes, left (FS)
D:Uterus
E:Sigmoid Colon
F:Omentum
G:Peri—Aortic Lymph Nodes
H:Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes
I:Right Peri-Aortic Lymph Nodes
I:Right Pelvic Lymph Nodes
K:Ovary Blocks-

Intraoperative Diagnosis
Page 2 of 4

F51 (A) Left ovary, oophorectomy: Poorly-differentiated carcinoma consistent with ovarian primary.
concurs.
FSZ (C) Periaortic lymph nodes, left, excision: Metastatic carcinoma in one of two identified lymph nodes

 

Clinical History
-year-old woman with ovarian carcinoma. TAH/BSO, lymph nodes, omentectomy.

Gross Description
Part A is received fresh and labeled "left ovary" and consists of a 14.0 x 12.0 x 5.5 cm Iobulated, tan-
white,
purple solid and cystic mass with generally smooth external surface, but rare surface nodules which are
white-tan-yellow and focally confluent, up to 2.5 cm in aggregate, covering approximately 5% of the
external
surface. A 9.5 cm irregular rupture or incision exposes soft, lobulated tan-red interior, focally cystic but
generally solid. Additionally, there is an attached 7.5 x 1.0 cm diameter fallopian tube with fimbria which
IS
grossly unremarkable. Although the mass has been previously ruptured, an attempt is made to ink the
surface. The cut surface reveals a proliferation with friable papillary areas, light tan necrotic areas, myxoid
and yellow degenerate areas, multiple cystic cavities and occasional hemorrhagic foci. Tissue was removed
for research. Sections:
Cassettes A1-A10: Sixteen sections of tumor including ovarian surface in A5-A9 and two cross-sections
of fallopian tube in A7. Remainder from frozen section in A1.
Part B is submitted fresh and labeled "right ovary" and consists of a 12.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm semi-solid and
cystic mass which has been opened by previously incision/rupture. The serosal surface is white, smooth,
fibrous and Shiny without grossly evident papillary lesions on the surface. The surface is inked black. The
mass is solid and cystic with light tan papillary, friable areas of solid tumor, white light—tan fleshy areas
and hemorrhagic and myxoid areas of necrosis. No fallopian tube is identified on the specimen. Sections:
Cassettes 31-86: Ten sections of tumor.
' art C is received fresh and labeled "periaortic lymph node" and consists of an elongate fragment of
tan—yellow soft tissue measuring 6.2 x 1.4 x 1.1 cm. This specimen contains two tan—brown lymph nodes

 

 

{‘3

TURGICAL PATHOLO Y REPORT

measuring 3.2 and 2.8 cm. The larger node contains an 0.8 cm white nodule. The smaller lymph node is
unremarkable on sectioning. Sections:

assette C1: Part of the large node remaining from frozen section.

Cassette C2: Remainder from large node.
Cassette C3: Smaller lymph node remaining from frozen section.
Cassette C4: Remainder of tissue from small node (entire specimen submitted in C1—C4).
Part D is received in formalin and labeled "uterus" and consists of a 5.0 x 5.0 cm uterus with a 3.0 x 3.5
cm attached cervix. Additionally, an 8.0 x 1.0 cm right fallopian tube with markedly dilated, edematous
1.5
cm distal fallopian tube is noted. Adherent to the right fallopian tube is a 9.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm mass of
papillary white, friable tumor. The fimbriated end of the fallopian tube is partially effaced by the carcinoma
which forms an encasement around the fimbriated end. The anterior serosal surface of the uterus is
granular with fine, micropapillary growth confluent over the entire anterior serosal uterine surface.
Additionally, the white carcinomatous growth extends into the paracervical tissues bilaterally. The
myometrium is 1.2 cm in thickness and the endometrial stripe is 0.1 cm in thickness. Near the cornu is a
1.0 x 1.2 x 0.2 cm polypoid, white whorling probable myoma extending into the endometrium.
Additionally
a polyp is present in the cornu. A 3.5 cm diameter hard, calcified myoma is present on the right lateral
myometrial wall and a 1.1 cm diameter pedunculated, subserosal leiomyoma is present on the posterior
surface of the uterus. Additionally, an intramural 1.5 cm leiomyoma is present in the posterior myometrial
wall. Sections:
Cassette D1: Cervix @ 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock.
Cassette D2: Paracervical tissues.
Cassette D3: Complete cross—section of myometrial wall, including sub endometrial leiomyoma.
Cassette D4: Endometrial Strips.
Cassette D5: Cross—sections from two posterior wall myomas.

Cassette D6: Anterior serosal surface and fallopian tube.
age 3 of 4

  

 

Cassette D7: Two cross-sections of fallopian tube, including one with fimbriated end involved by tumor.
Cassette DB: Cross-section of tumor at right fallopian tube.
Part E is received in formalin and labeled "sigmoid colon" and consists of a 5.0 x 5.0 0.9, a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0
cm, a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm fragments of soft tissue, including peritoneal surface and adipose tissue with
white nodular tumor growth. Multiple cross-sections ae submitted in cassette E1.
Part F is submitted in formalin and labeled "omentum" and consists of a 45.0 x 20.0 x 2.0 cm sheet of
fibroadipose tissue with lobulated fat. At one edge of the omentum is an 8.0 x 5.0 x 2.5 cm area of firm
induration and thickening with white nodular infiltration by carcinoma. A separate 0.7 cm discreet nodule,
as well as a second 0.3 cm discreet nodule are identified. Sections from two discreet nodules and one
section from larger nodule are submitted in cassette F1.
Part G is submitted in formalin and labeled "periaortic lymph node" and consists of a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm
fragment of fibroadipose tissue, submitted entirely in cassette G1.
Part H is submitted in formalin and labeled "pelvic lymph node - left" and consists of a 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm
mass of fibrofatty tissue, entirely submitted in cassette H1.
Part I is submitted in formalin and labeled "aortic nodes, right" and consists of a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm light
tan mass of ﬁbrofatty tissue, entirely submitted in cassette 11.
Part J is submitted in formalin and labeled "pelvic lymph node, right" and consists of a 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm
mass of fibrofatty tissue and lymph nodes, entirely bisected and submitted in cassette Jl -2.
Part K, received for the 7 , consists of three tan blocks, labeled "341-1, 341—2, and
341—3". All subsequently submitted as blocks
"K1, K2, and K3".
The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be

egarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of
: " 988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high—complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending

 

W . w emerges”

iURGICAL PATHOLOEY REPORT

pathologist following review of all pathology slides.

lectronically signed out on

 

 

 

