 

Collected Date &Time:_ , 7 , ——— _. ..._......-CGA “A3 3373

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology COPY TO:
COPY TO:

Pre—Op Diagnosis

Gallstones, right renal mass

Post-0p Diagnosis

Nothing indicated

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Two parts

Container labeled g i.“*'"“ V-u=“m:e l — gallbladder" has an 8.0 x 3.0
x 2 5 cm previously partially opened gallbladder having a smooth
gray— pink serosa. The wall measures up to 0.1 cm and is fibrotic.

The lumen is lined by finely trabeculated hyperemic mucosa. Within
the lumen is a moderate amount of viscid green bile, as well as
several firm friable granular green—black calculi measuring
individually up to 0.2 cm and measuring in aggregate 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.2
cm. Representative sections are submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled m 2 — right kidney" has a 530 gram
previously partially sectioned right nephrectomy specimen surrounded
by a moderate amount of perinephric adipose tissue and faced
anteriorly by a small amount of Gerota‘s fascia. The specimen overall
as received is 22.8 x 11.5 x 5.1 cm. In the upper anterior medial
aspect is a 2.1 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm area of fragmented chalky tan—yellow
tissue grossly consistent with fragmented adrenal gland. The renal
margins of resection include 1.1 cm of grossly patent renal artery,
1.3 cm of grossly patent renal vein and 5.? cm of grossly patent
ureter. The capsule strips with ease to reveal an organ measuring
11.0 x 7.9 x 6.0 cm. Extending from the upper to mid poie on the
lateral aspect is a 6.5 x 5.5 x 5.4 cm lobulated well circumscribed
apparent unencapsulated lesion having a red-brown to chalky yellow
moderately hemorrhagic cut surface. This extends beyond the plane of
the renal cortex into the surrounding adipose tissue; however. it
appears to be completely covered by an intact layer of attenuated
cortical parenchyma. The lesion grossly appears to compress the
surrounding structures and grossly approaches vascular structures
near the hilus; however, the lesion does not grossly appear to extend
into these structures. The remaining renal parenchyma shows a cortex
measuring up to 0.7 cm which is slightly edematous but homogeneous
and red—brown. The corticomedullary junction is poorly defined. The
medulla is homogeneous red—brown with sharp papillae. The calyces and
pelvis are lined by smooth tan—white mucosa extending into the
ureter. Also received i tainer are three tissue
cassettes each labeled " Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A — vascular and ureteral margins; B—G

 

 

- lesion and surrounding tissue; H — random uninvolved parenchyma; I
— adrenal gland.

  

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled
Final Diagnosis
Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:
Chronic cholecystitis.
Cholelithiasis.
No evidence of malignancy.
Kidney, right, radical nephrectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Conventional (clear cell) renal carcinoma
Tumor site: Upper to mid pole lateral right kidney
Tumor size: 6.5 x 5.5 x 5.4 cm
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 3/4
Lympbovascular space invasion: Present
Transcapsular invasion:_Not identified
Renal vein invasion: Not identified
Vena caval invasion: Not identified
0. Adrenal gland: Not involved by tumor
Surgical margin status:

 

l-JKDCDNJCSNU'll-bWNP-J

1. Soft tissue margins: Free of malignancy in sections examined
2. Ureteral margin: Free of malignancy in sections examined
3. Vascular margins: Free of malignancy in sections examined
Lymph node status:
Not applicable {no lymph nodes submitted for evaluation}.
Stage:
ple Nx Mx PAS 9 SPC-A
CPT: 88304, 88307 '
Comments

— has reviewed this case and concurs with the die nosis.
This test has been finalized at. the—

Electronically Signed by: # r

 

