SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
/cA-o'3

LIWW, WW1: “”5
9580/3
Case Number: Sin: WW 0541
4/1!”

Ar

Diagnosis:
A: Omentum, omentectomy
- Involved by high grade endometrioid adenocarcinoma.

 

B: Uterus and cervix, hysterectomy:
Location of tumor: uterine fundus

Histologic type: endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium with extensive eosinophilic change, 3.5 cm in

greatest dimension Isee comment).

Histologic grade (FIGO): FIGO grade 3 (architectural grade 3, nuclear grade 3)

 

Extent Of invaSIon: Myometrlum uum: szczsaae saas-ues- ACDF-ADSGEA1E7D7Fd
TCGA- EY- A1Gw- o1A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII [III II III
II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllIIlllIIIIIlI

Myometrial invasion: outer half “H
Depth: 1.3 Wall thickness: 2.1 Percent: 62% IIII

Serosal involvement: none identified

Lower uterine segment involvement: none identified

Cervical involvement: none identified

Adnexal involvement (see below): none identified

Other sites: omentum, pelvic gutter, and bowel serosa invoived by endometrioid adenocarcinoma (see parts A, C and D)
Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: widely free of tumor

Lymphovascular Space invasion: none identified (see comment)

Regional lymph nodes: not applicable

Other Pathologic findings:

Cervix
- Chronic cervicitis with cystically dilated endocervical glands and a tunnel cluster.

Endometrium
- Atrophic endometrium.

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry results:
Estrogen receptor Positive 1 to 2+, 60%
Progesterone receptor Positive 1 to 2+, 30%

AJCC Pathologic stage: pT1b pNx pM1
FlGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: IVB

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- Epithelial inclusion cyst.
- Physiologic changes.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
— Epithelial inclusion cysts.
- Physiologic changes.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- No specific pathologic abnormality.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- No specific pathologic abnormality.

C: Soft tissue, gutter implant, removal
- Involved by high grade endometrioid adenocarcinoma.

D: Colon, right hemicolectomy
- Appendiceal and bowel serosa involved by high grade endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
— Surgical resection margins free of tumor.

Comment:

Histologic examination reveals tumor with solid and cribriform growth patterns. Cells show enlarged nuclei with
markedly prominent nucleoli and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. Immunohistochemical stains were performed and
tumor cells are positive for CK 7 and show patchy positivity for p53. lmmunostains for CK 20, p16, and p63 are negative.
Morphology and immunoprofile support the above diagnosis. Findings in one area raised the possibility of
lymphovascular space invasion. However, immunostains for CD31 and CD34 do not convincingly show intravascular
tumor.

Clinical History:
with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:

0

Received are four appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "omentum." It holds a 43 x 13 x 2.0 cm fragment of omentum. Within the omentum
there are multiple white, soft, well circumscribed nodules ranging from 0.5 to 14.5 cm. Sections of the nodules are
submitted in blocks A1-A3 with the remaining tissue retained in formalin.

Container B:

Adnexa: present

Weight: 118 grams

Shapezpearshaped

Dimensions:

height: 11.2 cm

anterior to posterior width: 5.0 cm

breadth at fundus: 6.0 cm

Serosa: tan/pink, focally erythematous with a 1.1 x 0.6 cm tan, slightly nodular area on the left anterior wall
Cervix: 2.1 x 2.0 cm with a 0.4 cm patent 05

length of endocervical canal: 1.7 cm

ectocervix: tan/pink and focally erythematous

endocervix: tan and trabeculated

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 4.5 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 4.5 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 3.5 x 3.3 x 2.9 cm

appearance: tan/white, soft, exophytic

location and extent: attached to the dome extending into the myometrium

myometrial invasion: yes; outer one half

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.7 cm (mass comes to within 0.5 cm of the serosal surface)
other findings or comments: none

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm

external surface: tan and smooth

cut surface: tan/yellow and unremarkable

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 4.2 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter

other findings: the outer surface is tan/red and glistening; the cut surface reveals a pinpoint patent lumen

Left ovary:

dimensions: 1.3 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm

external surface: the outer surface is tan and smooth
cut surface: tan, firm and unremarkable

Left fallopian tube:
dimensions: 3.5 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter

other findings: the outer surface is tan/red and glistening; the cut surface reveals a pinpoint patent lumen
Lymph nodes: n/a

Other comments: none
Digital photograph taken: no
Tissue submitted for special investigations: tumor submitted to Tissue Procurement

Block Summary:

81 - anterior cervix, lower uterine segment, bisected section
82 - posterior cervix, lower uterine segment, bisected section
83 - tumor with respect to serosal surface, perpendicular
84,85 — tumor and adjacent myometrium

86 - abnormality on anterior serosal wall

87 - additional section of anterior endomyometrium

88 - additional section of posterior endomyometrium

89 - right ovary (entirely submitted)

810 - right fallopian tube

811 - left ovary (entirely submitted)

812 - left fallopian tube

Container C is additionally labeled "right gutter implant." It holds a triangular shaped piece of red/brown firm tissue, 9.0
x 7.5 x 1.5 cm. Within the tissue there are multiple white soft, ill-deﬁned nodules. The specimen is sampled in blocks C1—
C3, with the remaining tissue retained in formalin.

Container D is additionally labeled "cecum, distal ileum, ascending colon and appendix." It holds a right hemicolectomy.
The segment of terminal ileum measures 2.5 cm in length x 3.5 cm in circumference and is contiguous with the
cecum/ascending colon, part of the transverse colon (33 cm in length x up to 6 cm in circumference). The attached
appendix is 4.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter. On the outer surface of the appendix there is a red/brown ﬁrm
nodule, 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The nodule comes to within 1.5 cm of the proximal aspect of the appendix. On section, the
appendix has a patent unremarkable lumen. The serosal surface on the ascending colon just past the cecum is covered
with red/brown, firm tissue approximately 10.0 x 5.0 cm. On section, this tissue has a white creamy cut surface and does
not appear to invade into the bowel wall. The terminal ileum, cecum, ascending colon, and part of the transverse colon
tan/pink and glistening mucosa. No mucosal based masses are noted. A 2.5 cm in greatest dimension tan firm, creamy
lymph node is present at the mesenteric vascular pedicle margin.

Also within the specimen container there is an additional segment of small bowel, 5.5 cm in length x 1.5 cm in diameter.
The bowel is received stapled. The serosal surface at one of the stapled margins is discolored red/brown. The
remainder of the serosa is tan/pink and glistening. Opening reveals tan/pink folded, unremarkable mucosa.

Also present within the specimen container are two fragments of red/brown ﬁrm tissue, 11.0 x 7.5 x 2.5 cm in
aggregate. On section the cut surface is tan/red and soft. The specimen is sampled per block summary.

Block summary:
D1 - proximal and distal mucosal margins (right hemicolectomy)

D2 - appendix

D3 - serosal implant

D4,D5 — serosal implant and bowel wall

D6 - additionally submitted fragment of small bowel margin with red/brown ﬁrm tissue, en face
D7 - opposite margin

D8 — section of additionally submitted red/brown firm tissue

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be

classified as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by
the . l ' . These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval Is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for

research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as
qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

