 

WID:2DESSD75-073E-MCA-MOB-619961565040
TCGA-XU -A92V-01A-PR

MM

 

Patient Name

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report m0 5
W 5852/3

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

1. Thymus: GLAND AND THYMOMA 5k (xi/am €574

2. Lymph node: Inferior cervical lymph node (;¥.E)I¢7él/IL/

DIAGNOSIS

1. Thymus, thymectomy:
a. Thymoma, WHO type AB, with (see Comment):
1. Maximum tumor dimension: 5.0 cm
ii. Microscopic tran3capsu1ar invasion present (Masaoka—Koga
stage IIA)
b. Hen—tumor involved thymic tissue with involutional changes

2. Lymph node, resection (inferior cervical):
— Two lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2)

COMMENT

1. Sections of the thymic resection show a lobulated tumor demonstrating
multiple internal fibrous septations and a biphasic pattern consisting of
areas of bland spindled cells, interspersed with areas composed
predominantly of small lymphocytes admixed with bland epithelioid cells.
The tumor appears completely encapsulated. There are several foci of
microscopic transcapsular invasion with extension of tumour cells into
surrounding fat. microscopically, the tumor capsule is present less than
1 mm from multiple painted surfaces of the specimen. However, as noted
above, the tumor appears encapsulated, and these surfaces likely do not
represent true surgical resection margins; the tumor with its capsule
appears to have been completely excised in the sections examined.

By immunohistochemistry, the tumor epithelial cells show strong positive
staining for pankeratin (AEl/AE3), CK5 and p63, and are negative for CD5.
Many of the background lymphocytes stain positive for TdT, CD3, CD5 and
CD1a. Overall, the features are of a thymoma showing morphologic
features of both medullary and cortical differentiation, consistent with

status: complete Page: 1 of 3

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: ’Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

WHO type AB, Masaoka—Koga stage IIA.

SYNQPTIC DATA

Specimen: Thymus
Procedure: Thymectomy
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Weight: 106 g
Histologic Type: Type AB thymoma
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.0 cm
Tumor Extension: Not applicable: .
Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor

DiStance of tumor from closest‘
margin: 1 mm

Treatment Effect: Not applicable: .
Lymph-vascular Invasion: not identified: .
Regional Lymph Nodes: No regional lymph node metastases

Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

Number of lymph nodes involved: 0
Immunohistochemical Staining: Results: Epithelial cells positive
for AE1/3, 0K5, P63, negative for CD5
Pathologic Staging (Modified Masaoka):

Stage IIa: Microscopic transcapsular

invasion
Implants / Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed .
Additional Pathblogic Findings: Age—appropriate involution changes

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "thymus: gland and
thymoma".. It consists of an unoriented piece of fibroadipose soft tissue
weighing 106 g and containing a partly cystic, tan, solid, firm, somewhat
lobulated mass measuring 5.0 x 4.3 x 3.5 cm. The tumor appears to be
encapsulated. The specimen has overall measurements of 12.0 x 6.0 x 3.5
cm. The cystic component is filled with yellow fluid. The largest cyst

Status: complete Page: 2 of 3

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name.

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F ' Location: ’

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

measures 3.1 cm in greatest dimension. The outer aspect of the specimen
is painted with silver nitrate. Elongated strips of fibroadipose tissue
are attached to the mass. No lymph nodes are grossly seen in the
fibroadipose tissue Multiple tissue pieces are frozen. Representative
sections submitted as follows:

lA—lE tumor with capsule
1F fragments of tumor
1G-H adjacent fibroadipose tissue

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and “inferior cervical
lymph node" consists of a piece of soft tissue measuring 1. 7 x 0.6 x 0.4
cm. A single lymph node measuring 0. 4 x 0. 4 x.0. 3 cm is identified. The
specimen is serially sectioned and submitted in toto in block 2A.

 

Status: complete Page: 3 of 3

