    

4._k _l ._

   
 

- . «rm-:uazmwznﬁemgéaiyan~:: -fin—Zi ,, .. .. . . r": -. 11.x»; » t|-1"-!:-a’_|:lT‘-v-

Accession Number: M- Report Status: Amend/Adds
Type: Surgical Pathology

Specimen Type: ' artial or total resection
Procedure Date:

dne , p
Ordering Provide

CASE: gw.lagﬂ
PATIENT: K

   
  

 

.TCGA—CZ—5459

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

SPECIMEN DESEGNATED “RIGHT KIDNEY":

RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, clear cell by (4.5 cm},
Fuhrman nuclear grade 3 (of 4).
Vascular and ureteral margins are negative for tumor.
The tumor does not invade the renal capsule or into

the sinus adipose tissue. [_’,//l
The tumor invades into the main renal vein.

No lymphovascular invasion identified.
RJCC Classification (6th Edition}: T3b Nx MX.
The nonvneoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the

findings will he reported in an addendum.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Right renal mass.

Operation: Right radical nephrectomy with vena cava resectio
Operative Findings: None given.
Clinical Diagnosis: Right renal mass with IVC extension.
ORGAN / TISSUE SUBMITTED:

All. Right kidney.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient‘s name, unit number,

and “ﬁlr Right renal mass with tumor of thrombus", and consists of a radical
nephrectomy specimen measuring 19.5 x 2.0 x 4.5 cm. The ureter measures 1.0 cm
in length x 0.5 cm in diameter, renal artery measures 0.9 cm in length x 0.5 cm

in diameter, and renal vein measures 1.1 cm in length and 2.2 cm in diameter.
There is an adherent yellow/black/red thrombus clogging the renal vein.
Bisecting the kidney along the ureter reveals a well-circumscribed but
multinodular and focally cystic orange/yellowftan tumor mass measuring 4.5 cm x
2.5 cm x 2.4 cm. Tumor is seen to abut the renal vein in close association
with the thrombus. There are foci suspicious for invasion of tumor in to the
renal pelvis adipose tissue. Grossly the tumor does not invade through the
renal capsule and the Gerota's fascia and perirenal fat are freely mobile. The
Gerota's fascia is inked black. Representative sections of tumor are submitted
to tissue hank, cytogenetics. Representative sections of normal kidney are
submitted to tissue bank, electron microscopy and immunofluorescence.
Sectioning through the perirenal fat reveals an absence of lymph nodes or

adrenal gland. Gross photographs are taken.

Micro A1: Vascular and ureteral margins, 4 frags total, -
Micro A2: Tumor and renal pelvis, 1 frag,—

Micro A3: Tumor, renal vein, and thrombus, 1 rag, -
Micro A4: Tumor and adjacent normal kidney, 1 frag,

Micro A5: Tumor, perirenal Eat, and Gerota's fascia, 1 frag,“
Micro A6 and A7: Additional representative sections of tumor, ags per

cassette,
Micro A8: Normal kidney, 1 frag, - .
Micro A9: Ureteral margin and additional vascular margins, 3 frags, -

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she

personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
‘ -~rﬂ\ «as rendered or confirmed the diagnosis£es)

 

   

atrophy.

  

Approximately lﬁﬂiﬁt of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular atrophy

and interstitial fibrosis. Arteries and arterioles exhibit moderate degree of
sclerosis.

 

 

lam-024459

 

 

 

Accession Number: Report Status: Final

Type: Cytogenetics .
CASE: ~s

PATIENT:
Cytogenetf-_pt:

 

       

KARYOTYPE: 44,x, —Y, —3 ,der(17) t (3,-17} (q1?1;p1?3) [101
METAPHASES COUNTED: 10 ANALYZED: 5 SCORED: 5 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

All metaphases contained clonal aberrations that included loss of the short arm
of chromosome 3, which is a characteristic finding in renal cell carcinoma,

clear cell type.

COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the

standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of
bands or greater.

400

INDICATION FOR TEST:
RCC

 

 

