{if

 

 

UUID: 4E7BED88- FF1B-496C-9838-A83606AEA1EeQd '
TCGA- DK- AZIl- 01A- PR ________

IIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||I|IIIIIIIIIII
IIIIII III|| IIHIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

PA I HULUU Y REFUK I

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med. Rec. #: Date of Procedure:

DOB: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: F Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: ' Billing Type: lNPATlENT

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

High grade UCC with focal superﬁcial lamina propria invasion and CIS status post TURBT and

Specimens Submitted:

1: SP: Lymph nodes, right distal pelvic; dissection

2: SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic, dissection

3: SP: Bladder, uterus, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral tubes and ovaries and urethra; radical cystectomy and hysterectomy
4: SP: Distal left ureter

5: SP: Distal right ureter

 

 

DIAGNOSIS: ”5 D 0 5
1. SP: Lymph nodes, right distal pelvic; dissection: 3W PD“ ”#147 WMJ ””5
Lymph Node Dissection: 8/30/3
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 21 5/4‘; ; 6/“(44 M A”; C (,7_ 4
W Way/Ii

 
 
   

'critcri. .
2. SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic, dissection: f—‘Jymm-k

      

Pwnary Tumor 3.1: Discr regency

%_

    

Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 9

  

 

3. SP: Bladder, uterus, anterior vaginal wall. bilateral tubes and ovaries and urethra; radical cystectomy and
hysterectomy:

Tumor Type:

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:
gal-imam ﬂat

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
"inﬁltrating

Tumor Multicentricity:
identiﬁed

Bladder Local Invasion:
Deep half of muscularis propria

..~—-...,.._

Extravesical Tumor Extension:

 

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Ureters involved by carcinoma in situ

Vascular invasion:
identiﬁed

Perineural invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Carcinoma in situ present at left ureteral margin. Section from right ureteral margin shows total denudation with
rare, markeiy atypical cells ﬂoating free in the lumen. For ﬁnal ureteral margins, see also parts 4 and 5.

Non—Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn's nests, cystitis cystica, cystitis glandularis)

Female Genital Organs:
The cervix shows chronic inﬂammation
The endometrium shows atrophy
Remaining genital organs are unremarkable

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002): p , _
pTZb (invadesdecp half of musoulerls propria');
L , . .. . _ _ /-.

 

4. Ureter, left distal; segmental resection:
Benign segment of ureter

5. Ureter, right distal; segmental resection:
Benign segment of ureter

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT,

*" Report Electronically Signed Out *‘*

 

Special Studies:
Result Speci ai Stain Comment
RECUT

Gross Description:

1). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Right distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.2 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - two bisected lymph nodes

 

Page 2 of 4

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

2). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.3 to 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN - lymph nodes

BLN - bisected lymph node

BLN2 - two bisected lymph nodes

3. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "bladder, uterus, anterior marginal wall, bilateral tubes and ovaries and urethra“. it
consists of a pelvic en-block resection comprising urinary bladder, uterus with adnexa, portion of vagina, and urethra. The bladder
measures 8 x 7 x 4 cm, the uterus measures 8 x 4 x 3 cm, the right ovary measures 2 x 1.5 x 1 cm, the right fallopian tube
measures 6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm, the leﬁ ovary measures 2 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm, and the leﬂ fallopian tube measures 6.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. The
portion of vaginal cuff measures 7 x 2.2 cm. The distal urethra and the vaginal cuff margin are shaved and submitted. The ureteric
stumps measure 1.5 cm. The specimen is inked as follows: right resection margin = black and left resection margin = blue and the
bladder is opened anteriorly to reveal 2 masses. The larger mass occupies the right anterior wall and measures 2.2 x 2 x 0.8 cm,
and the smaller is located on posterior wall and measures 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm. The remaining mucosa show diffuse granular
appearance. The uterus is bivalved to reveal smooth and thin endometrium. The ovaries and fallopian tubes show no
abnormalities. Tissue is submitted for TPS (solid mass #1, solid mass #2, diffuse granular mucosa). Representative sections are
submitted.

Summary of sections:

UTHM - distal urethra

RUM - right ureter margin
LUM - left ureter margin

RAM - right anterior wall solid mass
PM — posterior wall solid mass
GM - granular mucosa

RUO - right ureteric oriﬁce
LUO - left ureteric oriﬁce

LP- left posterior wall

LA - left anterior wall

RP- right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall

TRl - trigone

DOME - dome

EMM - endomyometrium

CX - cervix

DVM - distal vaginal margin
RTO - right tube and ovary
LTO - left tube and ovary

4). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal left ureter unclipped end is margin" and consists of a tubular segment of
tan elastic tissue with attached small amount of unremarkable fat, measuring 4.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in average diameter.
There is a clip demarcating the opposite site as the margin. The specimen is serially submitted from the unclipped end to the
opposite and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
UE — unclipped end
CE - clipped end

RT — remaining tissue

5). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal right ureter unclipped end is margin" and consists of a tubular segment of
tan elastic tissue with attached small amount of unremarkable fat, measuring 4.6 cm in length and 0.4 cm in average diameter.
There is a clip demarcating the opposite site as the margin. The specimen is serially submitted from the unclipped end to the
opposite and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
UE - unclipped end
CE — clipped end

 

Page 3 of 4

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

RT - remaining tissue

Summagy of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Lymph nodes, right distal pelvic; dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 BLN 12
3 LN 15

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic, dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BLN 2

3 bln2 12
1 LN 2
Part 3: SP: Bladder. uterus, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral tubes and ovaries and urethra;
hysterectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 ex 1

1 dome 1

1 dvm 1

2 emm 2

4 gm 4

1 la 1

1 lp 1

1 lto 1

1 lum 1

1 iuo 1

2 pm 2

1 re 1

6 ram 6

1 rp 1

1 rto 1

1 rum 1

1 rue 1

1 trl 1

1 uthm 1
Part 4: SP: Distal left ureter

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 CE 1

3 RT 9

1 UE 1
Part 5: SP: Distal right ureter

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 CE 1

3 RT 12

1 UE 1

radical cystectomy and

 

Page 4 of 4

END OF REPORT

