UUID:7531D241-8782-4947-A4A5-E78F4D821A84
TCGA-HZ-A4BH-01A-PR Re
If Ill"!

f Ill
llll lllllllllll lllll II
III llllllHIIHIIHIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

h Sex:M 80: we”

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

SURGERY CASE #: - FINAL

DATE OF SURGERY:

SURGEON: a

SPECIMEN: - A. Whipple with margins.
B. Gallbladder and contents.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: A. Common bile duct surgical margin free of

tumor.
Pancreatic margin focally involved by

tumor.
’OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Whipple procedure.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: None given.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: None given.

***********DIAGNOSIS***********
A, B.
1. Type of specimen: .
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection) and cholecystectomy.

2. Tumor type:
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

3. Histologic grade:
Moderately to poorly differentiated.

4. Tumor size:
2.5 cm, extending into peripancreatic soft tissue.

5. Surgical margins:
Pancreatic surgical involved by tumor.
Tumor extends to inked soft tissue margin.
All other surgical margins free of tumor.

6. Venous (large vessel) invasion: [LA - 0 ' 3 .~
Absent. . W! club?" 3500/5
7. gyzggzzic (small vessel) invasion: .Jrfki f9b14¢L¢G,A1¢4( ¢.;520
8. Perineural invasion: /hj
Present. 7/3A’II”
9. Lymph nodes:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 10.
Number of lymph nodes involved: 4 (4/10).
Focal extracapsular extension identified.

10. Additional pathologic findings:
Chronic pancreatitis.
Acute and chronic cholecystitis.
Cholelithiasis.

l"I[Illﬂllllllﬂllllllllﬂlllll III" I ll llllll‘ljllzlllilltemI
| llllllllllllllllllll‘lllllllllllll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.

TNM STAGING:
pTB, leb, pMX

(See previous

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

A.

B.

GROSS:

A.

Multiple sections are examined and sections of the
grossly described demonStrates an invasive maligna

Page 2 of 3

I v ‘ V
pancregtid mass
nt epit dlial

neoplasm. The tumor demonstrates medium size to small glands as well
as small nests of cells that are lined by cells containing a moderate

amount of cytoplasm with enlarged pleomorphic nucl

ei with prominent

nucleoli. A desmoplaetic stromal response surrOunds the tumor. The

neoplasm is seen involving the pancreatic surgical
sections immediately taken adjacent to the margin
involved by tumor. The tumor is also seen involvi

margin:with the
extensively;
ng the

peripancreatio soft tissue and involving the inked uncinate

(retroperitoneal) soft tissue margin. There is pa
and a focus of lymphatic invasion is noted. There
venous (large vessel) invasion. The adjacent pane
chronic inflammation and fibrosis. The common bil

rineural invasion
is no definite

reas demonstrates
a duct margin is

free of tumor. No involvement of the overlying small bowel or

ampulla of Vater is seen, the latter demonstrating
with acute and chronic inflammation and hemorrhage
multinucleated giant cell reaction. Sections take

mucosal ulceration
with foreign body
n from the gastric

and small bowel mucosal surgical margins are unremarkable, with no

malignancy. Random sections of the stomach demons
significant distortion of the overall glandular ar
Helicobacter pylori identified on special stain (G
sections taken from the stomach, pylorus and small
unremarkable. There are a total of ten lymph node
of which (peripancreatic) are involved by metastat
with focal extracapsular extension identified.

Sections are of gallbladder with mild acute and oh
There is no malignancy.

trate no ,
chitecture with no
iemsa). Random
bowel are also

5 identified, four
ic adenocarcinoma

ronic inflammation.

Received labeled "Whipple“ is a 13 cm segment of stomach in

continuity with small bowel measuring 14 cm and he
measuring 5 cm, with surrounding soft tissue. Pre
the pancreas is a firm mass measuring 2.5 cm maxim
appears to closely approach the pancreatic margin,

ad of pancreas

sent on the head of
ally. The tumor

and grossly is

also seen involving the uncinate (retroperitoneal/mesopancreatic)
soft tissue margin. The stomach is opened along the greater

curvature and small bowel along the antimesenteric

side. The ampulla

of Vater is erythematous with metal clips present on the mucosa. The
tumor does not grossly involve the ampulla or small bowel mucosa.

The gastric mucosa and small bowel mucosa appear unremarkable and the
pylorus also appears unremarkable. The remainder of the pancreas
demonstrates a lobulated, yellow parenchyma. Representative section
of the tumor is submitted for Genomics Project. The pancreatic duct
and parenchymal surgical margin are submitted for frozen section and
frozen section diagnosis in block #1, and the common bile duct margin

is submitted for frozen section and frozen section

diagnosis in block

#2. Representative section of the tumor is also submitted for
chemosensitivity assay. Sections are then submitted for permanent as
follows: Cassette #3 - Sections immediately adjacent to the

Page 3 of 3

pancreatic duct surgical margin. #4 through #8 — Additional sections
of tumor with #5, #6, and #7 containing inked soft tissue margin. #9
~ Pancreas and overlying small bowel. #10 - Immediately adjacent
pancreas. #11 and #12 - Sections of ampulla of Vater. #13 - Small
peripancreatic lymph nodes. #14 - Proximal and distal mucosal
(gastric and small bowel) margins. #15 — Random sections of stomach.
#16 ~ Sections of stomach, pylorus and small bowel. #17 and #18 -
Additional peripancreatic lymph nodes. #19 — Lymph nodes from lesser
curvature. #20 and #21 - Lymph nodes from greater curvature. -

 

 

 

B. Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "gallbladder and contents" is a gallbladder measuring 7 cm in
length x 4 cm in maximum diameter. The serosal surface is pink—tan
and diffusely hemorrhagic. The cystic duct is patent. A cystic duct
lymph node is not identified. The specimen is opened to reveal a
large amount of green~tan bile and two bile stones ranging in size
from 0.4 to 0.5 cm maximally. The mucosal surface is pale tan,
emceth and velvety. The wall measures 0.3 cm thick. Representative
sections are submitted in a single cassette.

 

 

Electronically Signed by

 

 

Dictated: Job# I

Transcribed: Doc# M
cc: IlllllllllI-III MD

/ MD
IIIIIIIIIIIIII"' ‘"‘
mm

 

 

 

 

 

