  

%with history of right supraglottic T4N2CMO squamous cell
carcinoma. Total laryngectomy. €33 '

GROSS:

1. “Left level I lymph node' Received in formalin in a small container is a
0.4 cm bit.

Frozen section control'

2. aRight tracheal esopha eal groove" A 0.2 cm red bit.
Frozen section control. '

3. “Right paratracheal node" A 0.2 cm, soft tissue fragment.
Frozen section control. _

4. “Right pyriform" A 1.1 x 0.4 cm red soft tissue fragment.
Frozen section control. _

5. "Left pyriform! A 0.5 cm tan bit.

Frozen section control.

6. “Pesterior cricoid“ A 0.7 cm tan soft tissue fragment.

Frozen section control.
7. uBase of tongue” A 0.6 cm tan soft tissue fragment.

Frozen section control.

8. "Total laryngectomy Wide field laryngectomy' Received in formalin in a
medium container is an 8.3 x 5.9 x 5.1 cm laryngectomy with attached anterior
Strap muscles. The right pyriform mucosa is inked green and the left side is
inked blue. The previouSIy opened larynx has an ulcerating 1.6 x 1 cm tumor
which involves the right supraglottic mucosa, comes to within 1.5 cm of the
right pyriform mucosal margin and 1.2 cm from the edematous right vocal cord.
The ulcerating tumor also comes to within 4.8 cm of the tracheal margin. The
cut surface into this ulcerating tumor shows diffuse submucosal penetration,
enlarging the greatest dimension of this tumor to 2.7 cm. The maximum
thickness is 1.8 cm, and it comes to within less than 0.1 cm of the thyroid
cartilage and also within 0.1 cm of the hyoid bone. The gray—white, focally
hyperemic tumor penetrates under the epiglottis and the anterior strap muscle.
The tumor does not appear to extend to the left vocal cord, commissure or
pyriform sinus. The right true vocal fold has an ill~defined, black area that
appears to be 0.7 cm in greatest dimensions. No other mass nor lesion is

readily seen.

8A. Right mucosal margin. )

8B. Left mucosal margin. )

8C}. Tracheal margin. -}

BD—G. Sections of tumor to riform sinus, vocal cord, thyroid cartilage and
hyoid bone respectively. a

(F and G after decal)

BH. Section of tumor involving epiglottis and anterior strap muscle. -
BI. Unremarkable left pyriform sinus.

BJ. Left vocal cord. - ,
9. I'Left selective neck-level II Received in formalin in a small container

is a 5.1 x 3.3 x 1.6 cm irregular ovoid portion of focally nodular fatty
tissue. Within the fat are lymph node candidates up to 2.1 cm in greatest
dimensions. The cut surface of the two largest cysts are pinkntan and focally
hyperemic. I

9A. Four whole lymph node candidates.

9B. One bisected lymph node candidate

BC. One bisected lymph node candidate.
10. “Left selective neck level III" Received in formalin in a Small container

 

 
   

 

 

is a 4.7 x 2.7 x 1.4 cm irregular ovoid portion of focally nodular skeletal
muscle and fatty tissue. Small lymph node candidates are retrieved from the
irregularly shaped portion, and no evidence of mass nor lesion is readily seen
in the skeletal or fatty tissue. ,

10A. Five whole lymph node candidates. -

10B. Skeletal muscle. .
11. ”Left selective neck level IV“ Received in formalin in a small container

is a 4.1 x 2.8 x 1.4 Cm irregular ovoid portion of fatty and soft tissue. A
metal staple is attached without designation, and no evidence of lymph node
candidates are readily seen nor palpated in the portion.

11A—C. Level Iv tissue. -)
12. "Right selective neck level II“ Received in formalin in a small container

is a 6 x 3.2 x 1.3 cm irregular ovoid portion of fatty tissue. Multiple
staples are attached without designation. Multiple lymph node candidates
within the fatty tiSSue are retrieved up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimensions.
12A, Five whole lymph Bede candidates.

12B. Three whole lymph node candidates. —)
13. "Right selective neck level III“ Received in formalin in a small

container is 3.7-3 x 3.5 x 1.2 cm irregular ovoid portion of fibromembranous
tissue that is focally nodular. Multiple staples are attached without
designation, and the nodular portions between the fibromembranous tissue
appear consistent with skeletal muscle that is unremarkable. No evidence of
lymph node candidates are readily seen. «

13A—D. Right level III. -)
14. "Right selective neck level IV“ Received in formalin in a small container

is a 4.7 x 3.1 X 1.3 cm focally nodular portion of fatty tissue. Within the
fatty tissue are multiple lymph node candidates up to 1.9 cm in greatest
dimensions. . I

14A. Ten whole lymph node candidates.

14B. Three whole lymph node candidates. _}
15. “Right paratracheal nodes and pretracheal nodesll Received in formalin in

a small container are two irregular ovoid portions of fatty and soft tissue.
The smaller is 4.1 x 2. 7 x 1. 4 cm and the larger is 4.7 x 2.3 x 1. 2 cm. Within
the cut surface of the smaller portion is a 3.6 X 2.2 x 0.9 cm portion of
red—brown soft tissue that appears consistent with thyroid. No lymph node
candidates are readily seen or palpable in the portion, as the remainder of
the tissue is unremarkable skeletal muscle. The larger portion has multiple
lymph node candidates up to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension.

15A. Skeletal muscle from smaller portion. -)

15B. Possible‘thyroid tissue from smaller portion.
150. Nine lymph node candidates from larger portion. , fat retained and

soft tissue retained)

F

FROZEN SECTION REPORT

1. One lymph node negative for malignancy )
2 . One lymph node negative for malignancy. )
3~7. Negative for malignancyl

I; -, have reviewed and interpreted the frozen section
material at the time it was requested.

3: — have reviewed and interpreted the frozen section

material at the time it was requested.

Permanent sections confirm frozen section reports.

F - _
MICROSCOPIC :

SQUAMOUS LESIONS OF HEAD Sc NECK: RESECTION

 

 

 

Site: Supraglottic larynx”
Findings: Squamous carcinoma.

Differentiation: Moderate.

Subtype: N.A.
Gross: Ulcerating Size 2.7 cm (largest dimension).
Invasion: Present If present: depth 1.2 cm.

Tumor border: Infiltrative.
Perineural invasion: Present.
Vascular invasion: Absent.
Bone/Cartilage invasion: Absent.
Lymphocyte infiltration: Absent.

Margins: Negative.

SQUAMOUS LESIONS OF HEAD & NECK: LYMPH NODE DISSECTIONS-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RIGHT

LEVEL . _ Extracapsular
(or site} #Positive #Negative extension
II ' 1 - '1 No

III 0 0 N.A

IV ' 1 12 No
Paratracheal

and

pretracheal 0 11 N.A.
TOTAL 2 30

LEFT

LEVEL Extracapsular
(or site) #PositiVe #Negative ‘ extension

I O l N A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I: 0 5 N.A
Ill 0 5 FLA
IV 0 3 N.A
TOTAL ' o. 15

 

MICROSCOPIC DIAGNOSIS : ‘
1. Left level I lymph node, resection: One lymph node, negative for

malignancy.

2. Right tracheal esophageal groove, resection. One lymph node, negative for
malignancy.

3. Right paratracheal lymph node, resection: One lymph node, negative for
malignancy.

4—5. Right and left pyriform, resection: Negative for malignancy.
6. Posterior cricoiﬂ, resection: Negative for malignancy.
7. Base of tongue, resection: Negative for malignancy.

8. Larynx, total laryngectomy: Invasiva, moderateldeifferentiated squamous
cell carcinoma (2.7 cm diameter; 1.2 cm depth)'arising in right supraglottis
and involving paraglottic and pre—epiglottic spaces. No cartilage invasion or
left vocal chord involvement. Perineural invasion identified. Margins free.

See'template.

9. Left neck, level II lymph nodes, resection: Six lymph nodes, negative for
malignancy.

10. Left neck, level III lymph nodes, resection: Five lymph nodes, negative
for malignancy. '

11. Left neck, level IV lymph nodes, resection: Three lymph nodes, negative
for malignancy.

12. Right neck, level II lymph nodes, resection: Metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma involving one of eight lymph nodes. No extranodal extension

identified.

13. Right neck, level III lymph nodes, resection: Skeletal muscle anﬁ
fibroadipose tissue, negative for malignancy. No lymphoid tissue identified.
Entire tissue submitted for evaluation.

14. Right neck, level IV lymph nodes, resection: Metastatic squamous cell
carCinOma involving one of thirteen lymph nodes. No extranodal extension
identified.

15. Right paratracheal and pretracheal lymph nodes, resection: Nine lymph
nodes, negative for malignancy; Unremarkable thyroid tissue.

 

 

 

I, _ I - - the signing staff pathologist, have personally

examined and interpreted the slides from this case.

Code:r

 

F-

 

 

 

 

