Page 1 of 4

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

SMALL BOWEL ADHESION, LYSIS:

—Fibrous adhesion
—Necrotic cellular debris with fragments of high—grade
adenocarcinoma

OMENTUM, PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY AND FROZEN SECTION #1:
—Adenocarcinoma, high nuclear grade, consistent with mullerian
origin

OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
—Left ovary:

—Papillary adenocarcinoma, high nuclear grade (nuclear grade
grade 3), consistent with mullerian—derived adenocarcinoma,
papillary serous type

—Left fallopian tube:

—Papillary adenocarcinoma on the serosal aSpect of the
fallopian tube

~The rest of the wall of the fallopian tube is not involved
with the tumor

DIAPHRAGM #1 , BIOPSY:
—Papillary adenocarcinoma, mullerian—derived, papillary serous
type

RIGHT SIDEWALL, BIOPSY:
—Papillary adenocarcinoma, mullerian-derived, papillary serous
type

BLADDER PERITONEUM, BIOPSY:
—Adenocarcinoma, papillary serous type, mullerian—derived

OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, RIGHT, SALPINGO—OOPHORECTOMY:
-Right ovary:
~Papillary adenocarcinoma, mullerianuderived. papillary
serous type
~The tumor shows solid and cystic architectural configuration
—Right fallopian tube:
~Adenocarcinoma is present on the serosal aspect of the
fallopian tube
-The rest of the wall is not involved with the tumor

UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

—Uterine anterior surface (corpus):
—Tumor implants are present on the anterior peritoneal
surface of the uterus

 

 

Page 2 of 4

—Endometrium:
~Mildly disordered inactive endometrium
~Negative for malignancy
~Myometrium:
-Adenomyosis
—Right mesosalpinx/right parametrial soft tissue with
adenocarcinoma, papillary serous type, mullerian—derived

9. LYMPH NODE, LEFT EXTERNAL ILIAC, EXCISION:
“Five (5) lymph nodes with reactive follicular hyperplasia
and sinus histiocytosis
—Negative for malignancy

10. APPENDIX, APPENDECTOMY:
—Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present on the serosal and
subserosal aspect of the appendix
-The remainder of the wall of the appendix is negative for
malignancy

ll. DIAPHRAGM TUMOR #2, BIOPSY:
~Adenocarcinoma, papillary serous type, mullerian-derived

HISTORY: Ovarian carcinoma

MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l: SMALL BOWEL ADHESION

Labeled “small bowel adhesion" and received in formalin is an 8.4 x
0.4 x 0.3 cm serpiginous, tan—brown, membranous portion of tissue.

A. All embedded - l

2: OMENTUM FROZEN SECTION NO. 1

Labeled "omentum, Fs#l“, received fresh in the Operating Room, a
portion utilized for frozen section diagnosis and subsequently fixed
in formalin, is an 11.4 x 9.3 x 4.3 cm portion of focally indurated
and dull, tan—red omentum which on sectioning has a diffusely
indurated tan—yellow cut surface, consistent with tumor.
Representative sections.

B. Frozen section #1 remnant — 2
C. l

3: LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled “left tube and ovary" and received in formalin is a 7.7 x 4.8
x 4.4 cm markedly enlarged ovary. The external surface is tan~pink
and almost entirely surfaced with abundant friable excrescences. On
sectioning, cut surfaces range from solid to focally cystic with
cystic locules ranging from 0.6 up to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension.
There is no recognizable ovarian parenchyma. There is an attached
4.4 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm segment of fimbriated fallopian tube which is
surrounded by the friable tumor mass. On section, cut surfaces are
edematous. There is a 0.2 cm patent lumen. Representative sections.

D—G. Ovarian mass — 1 each
H. Fallopian tube — 2

4: DIAPHRAGM TUMOR N0. 1

Labeled "diaphragm tumor #1“ and received in formalin, are three
irregular, soft, tanwgrey tissue fragments ranging from 0.5 to
1.7 cm in greatest dimension.

 

Page 3 of 4

I. All embedded — 3

5: RIGHT SIDE WALL TUMOR

Labeled “right sidewall tumor“ and received in formalin is an
irregular fragment of tissue, measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm in
greatest dimension.

J. Representative section _ 1

6: BLADDER PERITONEUM

Labeled “bladder peritoneumH and received in formalin is a 1.7 x 1.3
x 1.2 cm irregular, soft, friable, tan—brown, hemorrhagic tissue
fragment which is bisected.

K. All embedded — 2

7: RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled “right tube and ovary“ and received in formalin is a 4.8 x
4.6 x 3.2 cm enlarged, firm ovary. The external surface is almost
entirely covered by friable, tan—red, granular and hemorrhagic
excrescences. On sectioning, the out surfaces vary from solid to
cystic with a 1.7 cm cystic locule containing abundant blood clot.
There is a 2.5 cm foci of friable tissue. No residual ovarian
parenchyma is identified. Adherent to the external surface of the
ovary is a 4.4 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm fimbriated length of fallopian tube.
On sectioning, cut surfaces are markedly edematous with a 0.1 cm
patent lumen. Representative sections.

L,M. Solid portion of mass — 1 each
N,O. Cystic portion of mass — 1 each
P. Fallopian tube — 2

8: UTERUS

Labeled “uterus", received fresh in the Operating Room for
intraoperative consultation and subsequently fixed in formalin, is a
75 gram supracervical hysterectomy without attached adnexa. The
serosa is shaggy and focally torn, tan—red, with abundant foci of
hemorrhage. There is abundant attached right mesosalpinx. The
uterine body is 3.9 cm superior to inferior, 4.2 cm cornu to cornu
and 2.4 cm anterior to posterior. The myometrium measures up to
1.4 cm and is firm, tan—pink and trabeculated without intramural
lesions. The endometrial canal is 2.7 cm in length and 1.7 cm in
width. The endometrium is smooth and tan—pink, measuring up to
0.2 cm in thickness. No endometrial lesions are identified.
Representative sections.

Q. Anterior uterine corpus — 1
R. Posterior uterine corpus - 1
S. Right mesosalpinx — 2

9: LEFT EXTERNAL ILIAC LYMPH NODE

Labeled "left external iliac lymph node” and received in formalin is
a 3.2 x 1.4 x 0.4 cm firm, tan-red lymph node which on sectioning has
a homogeneous, tanwpink cut surface. No obvious tumor is identified.

T,U. All embedded — 1 each

10: APPENDIX

Labeled I'appendix“ and received in formalin, is a 4.7 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm
vermiform appendix with a moderate amount of adherent, focally
indurated adipose tissue. The serosa is tannwhite and smooth with
focal adherent granularity and hemorrhage. No obvious area of
perforation is identified. On sectioning, the lumen contains minimal
hemorrhagic material. The wall thickness averages 0.2 cm throughout
and the lumen averages 0.1 cm throughout. No fecalith is identified.

V. Representative sections — 3

 

Page 4 of 4

ll: DIAPHRAGM TUMOR N0. 2
Labeled "diaphragm tumor #2“ and received in formalin is a 2.6 x 2.3
x 1.3 cm aggregate of soft, tan—white, granular tissue and blood

clot.

w Representative sections — Multiple

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):
#8: Uterus (supracervical hysterectomy} and endometrium without

' ' 'cant gross pathology

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):
FS#l: Adenocarcinoma consistent with mullerian origin

 

