LABORATORY MEDICINE PROGRAM

uu1u:aoeoatsu-7679-aucs-srar-86319314213E
EM ?edacted

Ill IIniIliﬁﬁililuliﬁiiﬁiﬁiiiiiﬁmuunmu mum Ill
III|||||||||||||||||||||||||||i|||llI||l||l|||||||IHIIIIIIIIIII ,
Iiillllilililililiilllililliilliliililllliillililllllil

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

  

 

Sp_e_cimen(s) Received | C, 9,0 )3 .

1. Melt: right neck content; single stitch posterior; double stitch superior. r .

2. Lymph node: Rt paratracheal nodes COMO 7" 0m , WP] ) ‘6‘ {q Wro’é
3. Parathyroid: Rt upper parathyroid OS

4. Lymph nodeth paratracheal node <5 BU OI 3

5. Thyroid: Total thyroid stitch- upper pole right . '

. 6. Parathyroid: Rt upper parathyroid #2 OS ' S ) 4C, ~H’TqYO i d , NO 5

C73. 6i qxs IL
‘0

Diagnosis
1. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes. 2 of 25 (right neck) dissection specimen

2. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 6 (right paratracheal) dissection specimen
., 3. No patholdgical diagnosis: Soft tissue (listed as “right upper parathyroid”) biopsy
4. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes. 2 (left paratracheal) dissection specimen

5. Multifocal angioinvasive papillary carcinoma, dominant widely—invasive classical variant with focal Warthin-Iikeareas
and tall cell change (<5°/o), 2.1 cm, right lobe; underlying chronic iymphocytic thyroiditis and mild follicular nodular
disease: Thyroid ' -
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroids. 2, right and left pen'thyro'idal
— Total thyroidectomy specimen

6. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right upper) biopsy

Synoptic Data

Procedure: OthenTotal thyroidectomy with right neck and bilateral paratracheal dissection
Received: Fresh
Specimen integrity: Intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
6.0 cm
2.3 cm
1.4 cm
Left lobe: _ ounurleu
3.7 cm
1.7 cm

— _ Page 1 of4

 

 

Specimen Weight
Tumor Focality:

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

0.8 cm

Isthmus +I— pyramidal lobe:
4.0 cm

0.9 cm

0.5 cm

Right neck dissection:

12.2 cm

4.5 cm

1.5 cm

Additional specimen: right paratracheal dissection
3,5 cm

1.7 cm , ”a

'1.0cm

23.6 g
Multifocal. bilateral
Multlfocal, midline (isthmus)

--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR---~-—------

Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Margins:

Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perineural Invasion:
Extrathyroidal. Extension:

Right lobe
Greatest dimension: 2.1cm
Additional dimension: 2.0 cm
Additional dimension: 1.5 cm
Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)
Papillary carcinoma. other variant: with focal Warthin-like areas (10%) and tall cell
change (<5%)
Classical (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Not applicable
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.1mm
Totally encapsulated
Present, extent widely invasive
Indeterminate '
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed

--------------- SECONDTUMOR-——--~---—--—-—
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 1 .4cm
Additional dimensions: 1.3 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant
Papillary carcinoma, other: with focal'talI—cell change (<5%)
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.1 mm
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Perineural Invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Present, extent widely invasive
Present, focal extent (less than 4 vessels)

Not identiﬁed

Not identiﬁed

m (multiple primary tumors)

pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm, but not more than 4 cm. limited to thyroid
pN1b: Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervial or superior

medastinal lymph nodes

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 33

Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 3

Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Not identiﬁed

Not applicable

 

Adenomatoid nodule(s) or Nodular follicular disease

Page20f4

_ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ' ‘

Thyroiditis
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits
Othen additional papillary microcarcinomas: 0.1 cm (isthmus) and 0.3 cm (left lobe)

 

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, . Edition

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical History
Papillary thyroid carcinoma

Gross Description
- 1. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as “RT neck content. Single stitch posterior colon double stitch

superior”, consists of a functional right neck dissection oriented with sutures as indicated. The specimen measures 12.2
cm Sl x 4.5 cm AP x 1.5 cm in depth. Within the tissue are multiple lymph nodes that range, from 0.2 to 1.6 cm. Lymph
nodes submitted in toto as they occur from superior to inferior.

1A—C multiple lymph nodes, per block

1D—E 1 lymph node, multiple pieces

1F multiple lymph nodes

1G-H 1 lymph node, 3 pieces

1| multiple lymph nodes

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "RT paratracheal nodes“ consists of a piece of ﬁbroadipose
tissue that measures 3.5 by 1.7 x 1 .0 cm. Vlﬁthin the tissue are multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.5 to 1.7 cm.

2A multiple lymph nodes

23 slice from largest lymph node

3. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "RT upper parathyroid QS", consists of a piece of tissue that
measures 0.2 x 0.1 x 0.10m. It is frozen for intraoperative consultation and submitted in toto.
, 3A frozen tissue resubmitted

4. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "LT paratracheal node", consists of a ﬁbroadipose tissue that
measures 1.7 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. Within the tissue at 2 lymph nodes that measure 0.4 and 1.0 cm.
4A submitted in toto

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Total thyroid stitch-upper pole right lobe" consists of a thyroid

gland that is received oriented with a suture and weighs 23.6 g. The right lobe measures 6.0 cm SI x 2.3 cm ML x 1.4 cm
. AP, the left lobe measures 3.7 cm SI x 1.7 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP and the isthmus measures 4.0 cm SI x 0.9 cm ML x 0.5 cm

AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid glands or no lymph

nodes are identiﬁed grossly. The right lobe contains 2 delineated, encapsulated nodules that measure 1.4 cm SI x 1.3 cm

ML x 1.1 cm AP and 2.1 cm SI x 2.0 cm Ml. x 1.5 cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is red-brown with possible

colloidal nodules. Sections of each of the nodules and normal tissue are stored frozen. Representative sections of the

remainder of the specimen are submitted:

5A-G right lobe, superior to inferior with small nodule in B and C and large nodule and E-G

5H isthmus

5|-N left lobe in toto, superior to inferior

6. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "RT upper parathyroid #2 08", consists of a piece of tissue that
measures 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. It is frozen for intraoperative consultation. '
6A frozen tissue resubmitted

Quick Section Diagnosis
3. Right upper parathyroid: Fibroadipose tissue. No evidence of thyroid or parathyroid tissue identiﬁed.

.. . , I! I P3993014

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Called at '

6. Right upper parathyroid #2: Parathyroid tissue present.
Called at

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4

