UUID: FB7CF869-AA16- 4C3E- BBDA- 568613BDBAEead

--01A PR

Gender: Male

DOB: 1a a - o "3 ’

Race: White Gama/kw. W4 ,mu

Report Date: (46" Qtlﬂc .1 “WI LMDL , ld’M
p9)“; “de041. MM Q’L'7' 9

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:

- Six of twenty three lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(6/23).

- Largest nodal tumor focus measures 3 mm, with extranodal tumor extension.

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:

- One of ten lymph nodes with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (1/10).
- Largest nodal tumor focus measures 1.4 cm, with extranodal tumor
extension.

C. Urinary bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia;
cystoprostatectomy:

- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, see pathologic parameters.
— Tumor invades thru the bladder wall and into the perivesical fat,
periprostatic tissue and focally the prostate.

— Tumor involves the right periprostatic soft tissue margin.

- One perivesical lymph node, no tumor (0/1).

D. Left distal ureter; resection:
- Segment of ureteral wall, no tumor.

E. Distal right ureter; resection
- Segment of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: High grade

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue, periprostatic tissue and
prostate.

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 3.5 cm, mass involves bladder posterior, left

Shoo/3

C(11)»

,w
a/avl”

 

and right lateral, anterior and trigone walls and prostate.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Positive for tumor (at right periprostatic soft
tissue margin, 5 mm [slide C23]).

8. Lymph nodes: Positive for tumor (7/34).

9. pTNM: pT4a,N2,MX, R1.

this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xx
I] MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, []M.D.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:

This is a year-old man with history of urothelial carcinoma, high grade
invasive into the prostatic stroma and lamina propria. He now undergoes
cystoprostatectomy and lymph node dissection.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph nodes

B: Left pelvic lymph nodes

C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicales & vas deferens
D: Left distal ureter

E: Distal right ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "1. Right pelvic lymph

node". Received fresh and placed in formalin IS a 7.5 x 6 x 2 5 cm aggregate of
yellow-brown lobular tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates measuring
0.3—1.1 cm are identiﬁed.

Al-A2: 5 candidate lymph nodes

A3-A4: 6 candidate lymph nodes

A5: One candidate lymph node, bisected
A6: One candidate lymph node, sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "2. Left pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 7 x 4.5 x 3 cm aggregate of
yellow-brown lobular tissue from which multiple lymph node candidates measuring
0.3-3.5 cm are identiﬁed.

B1: 4 candidate lymph nodes

B2: 5 candidate lymph nodes

B3: 3 candidate lymph nodes

B4: One candidate lymph node, bisected

BS-B8: One candidate lymph node, sectioned

B9-B1 1: One candidate lymph node, grossly involved by tumor, representative
sections

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "3. Bladder, prostate,

seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 17.5
x 9 x 6 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 0.2 x 6 x 4.5 cm bladder
with attached mesenteric fat and an approximately 5 x 4 x 3 cm prostate. The
right seminal vesicles measure 4.5 x 3 x 1 cm and right vas deferens measures 8
x 0.6 cm. The left seminal vesicles measures 4 x 3.1 x 1.3 cm and left vas
deferens measures 2.5 x 0.6 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 3 x 0.6 cm,
the left measures 2.2 x 0.6 cm, and both demonstrate intact, patent lumens.

The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is

inked black. The outer surface of the bladder is inked black. The bladder and
prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra. The capsule is absent and the
apex of the prostate is disrupted. Sectioning demonstrates ill-deﬁned broad

areas of ﬁrm, yellow-tan indurations throughout the prostate parenchyma focally
extending to ink. The seminal vesicles demonstrate cystic cut surface with
gold—brown thick secretion. The left seminal vesicle is focally grossly involved
by the lesion.

The opened bladder reveals a red—brown lesion with shaggy and ulcerated surface
involving the entire posterior wall extending to the left and right lateral

walls as well as the inferior anterior wall. The lesion measures 3.5 x 1.5 cm.
On cut section, the bladder demonstrates ﬁrm yellow-tan cut surface grossly
consistent with tumor involvement/possible ﬁbrosis with maximal thickness of
2.2 cm. The lesion extends through the lamina propria into the perivesicular
fat to within 0.2 cm of the ink. On one section it surrounds the right ureter.

The surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, wrinkled, tan-brown with wall
thickness of 1.3 cm. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent to the trigone, are
identiﬁed and probe patent. Received separately in the same container is a 3 x
3 x 1 cm aggregate of yellow lobular adipose tissue from which one candidate
lymph node measuring 0.2 cm identiﬁed.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
C1: Distal prostatic urethral margin (apex)
C2: Right ureter resection margin

C3: Left ureter resection margin

C4: Prostatic apical margin

C5-C6: Lesion, left lateral wall, closest extension to ink
C7: Lesion, anterior wall, closest extension to ink
C8-C10: Lesion, posterior wall,

C1 1: Lesion, trigone

C 12: Lesion, right lateral wall

C13: Lesion, surrounding right ureter

C14: Uninvolved dome

C l 5-C19: Left prostate, apex to base

C20: Left seminal vesicle and vas deferens

C2 1 -C25: Right prostate, apex to base

C26-C27: Right seminal vesicle and vas deferens
C28: One candidate lymph node

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4. Distal left ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft and rubbery, tan-pink, and
oriented, 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm tissue grossly consistent with mucosa with minimal
attached adipose tissue. A lumen is not identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted in
toto as E1

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "5. Distal right ureter,

stitch on non—margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a soft and
rubbery, 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm tissue containing a segment of ureter with wall
thickness of 0.1 cm and a patent lumen of 0.2 cm. B. margins side is trimmed and
submitted as El.

XX
[], M.D.

