  

my. maltose
A) Left Inferior parathyroid, biopsy: Benign adipose and atrophic thymlc
tissue.

£57,141 9——

‘I
‘3‘
:1-
Q
g
\x

m
—2
§
2

wt
“7 wax”

:Lmvpm/

Lll

N)

\

Q
i

4
U
\

\

i
a"
$55
0");
20

/

UUID: FCD2C9C3- BGBA- 4051A BGBRC- B7
TCGA- 38- 4302-06 ”Humid

lHlllHllH
muiuimaii'u’iii'iu'u’iifi’iiHiii'a'imi'i’mm”'""“'””'"

Ill lllllllllHlHllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I'llllll

at. .,

COMMENT: CD3 and TdT stains are positive.

B) Thyroid gland with central compartment nodes, excision: Well
differentiated papillary adenocarcinoma (3.5 cm in diameter), left lobe of
thyroid, focally extending to involved inked surgical margin and beyond
the capsule of the thyroid into adjacent adipose tissue. Sections of the
right thyroid gland show multiple foci of adenocarcinoma which
measure up to 0.3 cm in maximum dimension. Thirteen of fourteen
central compartment lymph nodes show metastatic tumor and measure
up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.

C) Tumor left Berry's ligament, biopsy: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma.

D) Right paratracheal lymph nodes, excision: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma in three of three lymph nodes.

E) Anterior mediastinal contents: Metastatic well differentiated
adenocarcinoma involving one of one lymph node, measuring 1.5 cm in
diameter. The rest of the specimen consists of fat replaced, atrophic
thymus gland.

F) Thymus, excision: Atrophic thymus.

6) Right neck contents, anterior, excision: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma in one of seven lymph nodes, measuring 2.0
cm in maximum dimension.

H) Right posterior neck contents, excision: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma in one of 48 lymph nodes. measuring up to
1.0 cm in diameter.

I) Left anterior neck contents, excision: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma in two of 25 lymph nodes, measuring up to
2.5 cm in greatest dimension.

    

J) Left posterior neck contents, excision: Metastatic well differentiated
papillary adenocarcinoma In two of 8 lymph nodes forming 4.0 and 3.5
cm in diameter masses.

‘
B: Thyroid Gland
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Papillary carcinoma
Classical (usual)
TUMOR FOCALITY:
Multifocal (specify):

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest Dimension: 3.5 cm
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

G1: Well differentiated

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid or with minimal
extrathyroidal extension (eg, extension to stemothyroid muscle or
perlthyroid soft tissues)

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pN1 szetastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervical (Levels
I, II, iii. W, V) or retropharyngeal or superior mediastinal lymph nodes
(Level Vll).

NUMBER OF LYMPH NODE(S) INVOLVED: 23

NUMBER OF LYMPH NODE(S) EXAMINED: 106
LYMPH NODE, EXTRANODAL EXTENSION:

Present
EXTRATHYROIDAL EXTENSION:
Present
Minimal
“ ~
~ ~electronic signature~

SPECIMEN RECEIVED

   

  

33,563 3 E2964:

’ L» V Milk . i
A) RULE OUT LEFT INFERIOR PARATHYROID, F/S
B) THYROID GLAND WITH CENTRAL COMPARTMENT NODES, F/S
C) TUMOR LEFT BERRY'S LIGAMENT
D) RIGHT PARATRACHEAL LYMPH NODES
E) VANTERIOR MEDIASTINUM CONTENTS
F) THYMUS
G) RIGHT ANTERIOR NECK CONTENTS
H) RIGHT POSTERIOR NECK CONTENTS
I) LEFT ANTERIOR NECK CONTENTS
J) LEFT POSTERIOR NECK CONTENTS

FROZEN SECTION
A) Rule out left inferior parathyroid, biopsy: Lymphoid tissue with squamous
epithelial rest; atrophic thymus not excluded.
B) Thyroid gland with central compartment lymph nodes, excision: Papillary
thyroid adenocarcinoma (3.5 cm in diameter), with metastasis and
replacement of multiple adjacent lymph nodes.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A) Received fresh for frozen section labeled “rule out left inferior parathyroid" is an
irregular portion of red/tan soft tissue weighing 30 mg and measuring 0.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section as A1.

B) Received fresh for frozen section labeled "thyroid gland with central
compartment lymph nodes” is a thyroidectomy specimen with attached fatty soft
tissue weighing 38.0 grams and measuring 10.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm overall. The .
specimen is inked with black ink. The thyroid is serially sectioned to reveal a 3.5 cm
in greatest dimension white/tan tumor mass. which focally extends to the inked
surgical margins. This mass is located within the left lobe of the thyroid. The
remaining thyroid parenchyma is beefy red/tan. Multiple enlarged indurated lymph
nodes are identified within the surrounding fatty soft tissue measuring up to 1.5 cm
in greatest dimension. On transection. these lymph nodes appear grossly replaced
by tumor. Touch preps are made of the lesion. A representative section of the
largest lymph node is submitted for frozen section as B1. A representative section
of the tumor mass within the left lobe of the thyroid is submitted for frozen section as
82. BS through 86 additional sections of tumor mass within left lobe, B7
representative uninvolved left lobe, BB and 89 representative sections right lobe,
B10 bisected lymph node. 811 bisected lymph node, B12 bisected lymph node, B13
bisected lymph node. B14 bisected lymph node, 815 bisected lymph node, 816
bisected lymph node. B17 bisected lymph node, B18 additional lymph nodes, B19

    

 

portions of fatty softqtlssue With possible smalleragm

C) Received in formalin labeled “tumor left Berry's ligament" is an ovoid portion of
white/tan soft tissue measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
submitted in cassette C1.

D) Received in formalin labeled “right paratracheal lymph nodes” are three portions
of yellow lobulated node-bearing adipose tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm.
Dissection yields three indurated lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. These are submitted in cassette 01.

E) Received in fonnaiin labeled ”anterior mediastinum contents” is an irregular
portion of yellow lobulated soft tissue measuring 5.0 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. Dissection
yields a 1.5 cm in greatest dimension apparent lymph node. which has been grossly
replaced by tumor. This lymph node is divided and submitted in cassette E1.
Additional portions of the sun'ounding soft tissue are submitted in E2 and E3.

ii) Received in formalin labeled “thymus" is an unoriented portion of yellow
lobulated soft tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is divided and
submitted in F1 to F3.

G) Received in formalin labeled “right neck contents anterior” is an irregular portion
of yellow lobulated node-bearing adipose tissue measuring 7.0 x 6.5 x 3.0 cm.
Dissection yields a 2.4 cm in greatest dimension nodule. which displays a white/tan
to tan/brown cut surface. A 4.0 cm in greatest dimension portion of
stemocleidomastoid muscle is attached to the specimen. Multiple additional smaller
lymph nodes are identified. A portion of internal vein is identiﬁed and appears
unremarkable. The remainder of the specimen displays yellow lobulated adipose
tissue. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 61 sections of nodule,
GZ sections of muscle and internal vein, GS bisected lymph node, G4 additional
lymph nodes, G5 to G8 additional sections of adipose tissue with possible smaller
embedded lymph nodes.

H) Received in formalin labeled "right posterior neck contents" are three unoriented
irregular portions of yellow lobulated node-bearing adipose tissue measuring 11.5 x
10.5 x 2.0 cm. Dissection yields multiple lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 cm in
greatest dimension. The largest lymph node is replaced by tumor. The remainder
of the specimen displays a large amount of yellow lobulated adipose tissue.
Representative sections are submitted as follows: H1 largest tumor replaced lymph
node trisected, H2 trisected lymph node, H3 through H5 additional possible lymph
nodes, H6 through H9 additional portions of adipose tissue with possible smaller

 

  

embedded ymp'ia‘aadgs.

I) Received In formalin labeled ”left anterior neck contents" are two irregular
portions of yellow lobulated node-bearing adipose tissue measuring 10.0 x 7.5 x 3.0
cm in aggregate. Dissection yields a 2.5 cm in greatest dimension tumor mass.
Multiple additional possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed. The remainder displays a
large amount of yellow lobulated adipose tissue. A portion of skeletal muscle is also
received with the specimen. Representative sections are submitted as follows: l1
sections of largest tumor mass, K2 bisected lymph node, l3 bisected lymph node, l4
bisected lymph node. l5 pieces of skeletal muscle, l6 and I7 additional lymph nodes,
l8 through no sections of adipose tissue with possible smaller embedded lymph
nodes.

J) Received in formalin labeled ”left posterior neck contents" are two irregular
portions of yellow lobulated node-bearing adipose tissue measuring 10.0 x 10.0 x
4.0 cm. Dissection yields two large tumor masses measuring 4.0 and 3.5 cm in
greatest dimension, respectively. Sectioning through the remainder of the specimen
reveals multiple additional possible lymph nodes. A portion of beefy red/tan skeletal
muscle is also received with the specimen. The remainder of the specimen displays
a large amount of yellow lobulated adipose tissue. Representative sections are
submitted as follows: J1 and J2 representative sections from largest tumor mass, J3
and J4 representative sections from second tumor mass, J5 bisected lymph node,
J6 representative sections of skeletal muscle, J7 through J11 additional lymph ‘
nodes, J12 and J13 adipose tissue with possible smaller embedded lymph nodes.

CLINICAL INFORMATION
PAPILLARY CANCER THYROID AND NECK

:rlterla
)iagnosi'. Discrepancy
'rimary Tumor Site Dlszrenancy

 

ieviewer

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
  
 

    

ill}

