ARM

UUID:139E5F15 -19M-451A-83D7 -919C657C08A3
TCGA-UY-ATBO-alA-PR Redacted
Illllllllllllll

Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllIllllllIllllllllllllll 125003
I |ll||||||||||| W W M35

Anatomic Site:Right Ureter (E‘S) y/QO/B
Left Ureter (ES)

Bladder (as on urethra) Q S ﬁxmw MOS
Distal right ureter (PS) @979
Right pelvic lymph nodes (FS)

Final urethral margin WQ/QO/LB’

Left pelvic lymph nodes
Final left ureter

Clinical Diagnosis/History:

The patient is a ﬁﬂ-year-old woman. No further clinical history is provided.
A recent consult report

indicates a transurethral bladder tumor resection showing invasive high-grade
urothelial carcinoma with invasion of the

muscularis propria.

Gross Description:

The specimen is received in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name
and medical record number. Parts A through E are

received fresh. Parts F-H are received in formalin.

Part A is additionally labeled "right ureter (frozen}." it consists of a
single segment of ureter, measuring 2.8 cm in length

and 1.2 cm in greatest diameter. The specimen is oriented by a black stitch
and verbally by the surgeon. Gross tumor extends

from the distal end of the ureter. The proximal margin is submitted en face
for frozen section diagnosis as F51, with the

frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1. The remaining ureter is
entirely submitted as follows:

Cassette A2: Proximal half of remaining ureter.
Cassette A3: Distal half of remaining ureter.
Part B is additionally labeled "left ureter (frozen)." It consists of one

fragment of pink-red ureter, measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x

0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis as
F82, with the frozen section remnant submitted in

cassette 81.

Part C is additionally labeled "bladder." It consists of a specimen, weighing
271 gm and measuring 22 x 13 x 3.5 cm. ?resent

within the specimen is a bladder, with a stent protruding through the left
ureter. In addition. there is included the left

fallopian tube and ovary. There is a small portion of the vaginal cuff

posterior to the urethra. The small stub of the left

ureter measures 0.3 cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter and is grossly normal.
The remnant fragment of right ureter measures

1.5 cm in length and 0.9 cm in diameter, and there is gross tumor at the

nroximal end. An en face margin of the urethra is

submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F53, with the frozen section remnant
submitted in cassette C1. The right-anterior

half of the bladder is inked green, the left-anterior half is inked blue, and
the posterior is inked black. The specimen is

then opened anteriorly through the remaining urethra to reveal a yellow—tan,
friable mass, measuring 3 x 2 x 1.8 cm, near the

right ureter opening and posterior bladder wall. Within the posterior aspect,
there is an area of potential bladder wall

involvement by the tumor, with possible tumor within 0.1 cm of the posterior
surgical resection margin. No other focal lesions

are identified. The left fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm
in average diameter. The fimbriae are lush, and

cross sections are grossly normal. The left ovary measures 2.5 x 1.2 x 0.9 cm
and has a grossly normal parenchyma. The

perivesicular fat is extensively searched for lymph nodes, with two candidate
lymph nodes identified. Representative sections

are submitted as follows:

Cassette Cl: Remnant from €53.
Cassette C2: Right and left ureter margins.
Cassette C3: Left fallopian tube and ovary.
Cassette C4: Normal bladder.
Cassette C5: Tumor at posterior bladder.
Cassette C6: Tumor at posterior bladder.
Cassette C7: Mass at right ureter.
Cassette C8: Mass at candidate remnant urethra.
Cassette C9: Two candidate lymph nodes and candidate right

fallopian tube.

Part D is additionally labeled "distal right ureter, long stitch - proximal
end." It consists of a single red—tan, tubular

structure, measuring 4.3 cm in length and 1.4 cm in greatest diameter. The
lumen measures 0.4 cm in diameter. A long stitch

marks the proximal margin, and a short stitch marks the distal margin. An en
face cut of the proximal margin is submitted for

frozen section diagnosis as F54, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette 01. The remaining specimen is entirely

submitted as follows:

Cassette DZ: Remaining proximal one-third.
Cassette 03: Remaining mid one~third. J
Cassette Dd: Remaining distal one-third.

Part E, additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," consists of soft,
reduyellow, fibro~fatty tissue measuring 8 x 5.5 x 1

cm and weighing 26 gm. Multiple prominent lymph node candidates are
identified. Representative sections from two lymph node

candidates are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 5. The first frozen
section remnant is submitted in cassette £1, with the

remainder of the lymph node candidate submitted in cassette 82. The second
frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette E3,

with the remainder of the lymph node candidates submitted in cassettes E4-ES.
Following fixation, the remainder of the lymph

node candidates are submitted as follows;

Cassette E6: One lymph node. bisected.
Cassette 87: One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette EB: One lymph node candidate, bisected.
Cassette 39: Two lymph node candidates, bisected and differentially
inked.
Cassette 810: Three small lymph node candidates, bisected, two
differentially inked.
Cassette Ell: Multiple small lymph node candidates, submitted whole.

Part F, additionally labeled "4 v final urethral margin," consists of one

firm, yellow-brown, irregular, unorianted tissue
fragment measuring 2.2 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is sectioned and entirely
submitted in cassette F1.

Part G, additionally labeled "7 - left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of
multiple soft, yellow, irregular, unoriented,

fibroadipose tissue fragments measuring 9 x 5 x 3.5 cm in aggregate and
containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging from

0.3 to 3.1 cm in greatesc diameter. The lymph node candidates are submitted
as follows:

Cassette Gl: Intact lymph node candidates.
Cassette G2: Two bisected lymph node candidates, inked in
different colors.
Cassettes GB~GS: Single lymph node candidate, trisected.
Cassettes GG-GQ: Single lymph node candidate, sectioned into four seetions.

Part H, additionally labeled ”8 - final left ureter,“ consists of one soft,
tan-white, irregular, unoriented, fibrous tissue

fragment measuring 1 x 0.7 x 8.2 cm. The specimen is trisected and entirely
submitted in cassette H1.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were develooed and their
performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the
U. 8. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are
used for clinical purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments
of 1938 (“CLIA”) as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis Comments:

Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Tumor type: Urothalial (transitional cell).

2. Tumor grade: High grade.

3. Tumor size: 3 cm.

4. Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis
propria.

Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None identified.

Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: Carcinoma in situ.

Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: Ureter, right.
Surgical margins:

Urethral margin: Free of tumor.

Right ureter margin: Final margin free of tumor.

Left ureter margin: Final margin free of tumor.

Perivesical margin: Negative, closest margin is 0.2 cm, posterior. slide

memo!

C5.

9. Lymph nodes: No tumor (0/24).
10. Other pathologio findings in bladder: Ulceration and chronic
inflammation.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pTZbNOMX.
12. Additional margin: The distal end of Part A (right ureter) is involved by
high grade invasive carcinoma (slide A3) into the
muscularis propria; however the proximal specimen margin (slide Al)
demonstrates chronic inflammation of the lamina propria with
atypia of the urothelial mucosa with we regard as reaCtive atypia. In Part 0
(labeled final proximal margin of the right
ureter) the proximal specimen margin {slide 01) is negative for dysplasia or
carcinoma. However the distal and of this specimen

0» ,-

K
WWI

(.1 ”a
‘:
_(
s

(slide 04) reveals nuclear atypia of urothelial carcinoma in situ. Because of
the intense chronic inflammation, distinguishing

reactive vs dysplastic changes are difficult. Immunohistochemical stain for
p53 was performed on slide 03 where the inflamed

urothelium have atypical, round, slightly enlarged nuclei and prominent
nucleoli. The stains highlights scattered positivity.

Thus based on the morphology and results of the immunohistochemical stain, the
atypical changes on slide D3 are regarded as

reactive. Dr. has reviewed select portions of Parts A and D
and concurs. Level section on C9 confirms the
diagnosis.

Interoperative Diagnosis:
F51 (A) Right ureter, proximal margin, biopsy: Chronic ureteritis with
atypia, favor dysplasia.

£52 (8} Left ureter, biopsy: No tumor seen. M
E‘SB (C) Distal urethra, biopsy: No tumor seen. ”3

F54 (D) Right ureter, proximal margin, biopsy: No tumor seen. w
I

F55 (E) Right pelvic lymph nodes, biopsy: Representative section of two
lymph node candidates, no tumor seen. (

s

Final Diagnosis:

A. Right ureter, distal, resection:

1. Proximal specimen margin with chronic ureteritis and atypia; see comment.
2. Distal end of ureter with high grade invasive urothelial carcinoma into
muscularis propria.

B. Left ureter, distal, biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.

C. Bladder and left fallopian tube and ovary, cystectomy and
salpingo-oophorectomy:

1‘ Bladder with invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, into outer one—half
of muscularis propria; see comment.

2. No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

3. Left fallopian tube and ovary with no significant pathologic abnormality.

D. Right ureter, final proximal margin, biopsy: Proximal specimen margin with
no dysplasia or carcinoma.

8. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: No tumor in seventeen lymph nodes
(0/17).

F. Urethra, "final margin," biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.
6. Lymph nodes. left pelvic, dissection: No tumor in six lymph nodes EQ/S}.

H. Left ureter, final margin, biopsy: No dysplasia or carcinoma.

  
 
  
  
  

 
 
 
 
 

Dvagnusu Discrepanry

anarv Tumor Site D‘snepancv
HIPAA Dustrepancv

'— aﬂgnancy Hut-2w

Dim/Synchronous Primary Not:

Card—alliircle):

Reviewer |nil|a|

  

 

, ”no.4
I 915mm men ,
—‘ _ 4

Dale Reviewed: 42m a: #j

._l_—-——|

     
        
 
 

