UUID:¢E%4:_8§li—_6A369‘g13:15-Aei9k3-E4167CD47a4e1da CtEd
III I ”III
|

Specimen Received:
Peri aortic mass and left colon

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

Periaortic mass and left colon, excision and partial colectomy:
Paraganglioma (6.4 cm). See Note.
Segment of colon with no significant histological change.
Twelve lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/13).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Note:

The lesion shows a Zellballen pattern. lmmunostains were performed to further
characterize this lesion. Atypical cells are positive for synaptophysin,

chromogranin and Melanin A. They are negative for MITF, HMB45, and Cam 5.2. 8100
fails to highlights sustentacular cells. These findings support the above

diagnosis.

Gross Description:

The specimen is received without fixative for tissue procurement labeled

with the patient's name, and labeled "periaortic mass and left

colon" and consists of a short segment of colon received with some associated
fat. The colon is received previously opened in a longitudinal fashion. The
colon has a length of 4.6 cm and a diameter of 2.7 cm. Loosely attached to the
associated fat is a previously inked and incised gray-tan, lobulated mass, which
has dimensions of 6.4 x 3.8 x 2.2 cm. There are numerous staples present on the
external surface of the mass. Additionally, loosely attached to the mass is a
sutured tubular structure, which has a length of 1.6 cm and a diameter of
approximately 0.6 cm throughout. The mass is further sectioned to reveal a
red-brown, focally myxoid glistening cut surface. This mass does not invade the
attached tubular structure or the colon. The tubular structure is further
sectioned to reveal a double barreled lumen. it is unclear as to whether this
structure represents a vessel or possible ureter.

The serosa of the colon is gray-tan, smooth and glistening to somewhat granular.
The lumen contains a small amount of red—brown, mucoid fluid. The mucosa is
gray—tan with the usual folds. The wall thickness is approximately 0.4 cm
throughout. Sectioning through the associated fat reveals 13 probable lymph
nodes that range from 0.1 to 0.4 cm in greatest dimension.

Representative sections are submitted as labeled:
1 opposing margins from the tubular structure;
2—5 mass to include adjacent tubular structure;
6-7 opposing colonic margins;

Criteria
Y

HIPM
Prior

case is IFIED
Reviewer initials one Reviewe‘l '

 

l’_—A~— w“ ‘m—r" "T T‘” "" “l

8 central longitudinal sections of colon;
9-11 13 probable lymph nodes submitted in toto.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken:
Gender: F

