UUID: A6AA7DD4- 7FD4- 4EE9- 8F26- DBSF72CBC717
TCGA- 33- A911 -91A-P

“”"ll'l'll'llllll'lllllll'lll'lll'lll'll'll'll
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||||||||I|I|II|I|I|II|||

Pathology Report

Final Diagnosis
PORTION OF UTERUS:
Uterine Ieiomyosatcoma high-grade.
Tumor measures 10 x 5 x 5.5 cm.
Tumor focalty extends to uten'ne serosa.
Focal angioiymphatic invasion present.
Ovary with physiologic changes.
Fallopian tube with no signiﬁcant pathologic changes.

3. REMAINING PORTION OF UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES:
Uten'ne ieiomyosarooma, high-grade.
Tumor involves wall of the cervix.
Tumor focally involves uterine serosa.
Tumor measures 18 x 8 x 9 cm.
Inactive type enciom atrium.
Adenomyosis.
Ovary with physiologic changes.
Fallopian tube; Negative {or malignancy.

C. PORTION OF OMENWM:
Benign omentai adipose tissue.

3 the attending pathologist, personally revieweaii all slides

and if or materials and rendered the firm: diagnosis Electronicaliy Signed
Out by ' """

Comment
The pathoiogic stage, based on the above intonnation, is best classiﬁed as T1!) NX W.

Speciments) Received
PORTION OF UTERUS

B REMAINING PORTION OF UTERUS BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES
C- PDRTION OF OMENTUM

Clinical Histo 2:4 (23‘ , _

A year-old female Writ: uterine Ieiomwsarooma. Ia ‘ o 3 N03 8 /
a, 80/0 5

Free erative Dia noais x . _’

Leiamytgarcoma. g Sui—LX Wkly N03 (2 5i)?

Gross Description 9/25 #231] l ’7’

 

A. Specimen a is received fresh labeled “portion of uterus." The specimen consists of an
irregular, unon'ented portion of uterine bod’y measuring 105 x 8.5 x. 6.5 cm, weighing 310 g. Serosa is
variegated pink-tart to dusky red, focally hemorrhagic, and bosseiated. The specimen is subtotally
replaced by tan to gray. rubbery. locally hemorrhagic and necrotic tumor which measures 10. x 6 x 5.5
cm. The tumor bulges but does not appear to extend through the serosa. The cut surface of the
tumor is pink-tan, homogeneous, focally hemorrhagic. and necrotic. The areas of hemorrhage and
necrosis occupy less than 1.0% of the tumor. Also received in the same container is an unoriented
ovary 2.49 (3.5 x 1.5 x 0.9 cm, weighing 4.3 g) with attached ﬁmbnated fallopian tube (5.0 cm in length
and 6.4 cm in greatest diameter}. The surface or the ovary is tan, cribriform. 0n sectioning, the ovary
reveals a grossly unremarkable ovarian parenchyma. The serosa covering the fallopian tube is dusky
red, smooth, and glistening. On sectioning, the fallopian tube reveals to pinpoint. grossly unremarkable
lumen. Also received in the same container are multiple irregular. umriented fragments of pink-tan to-
gray. focally hemorrhagic rubbery tissue consistent with potential tumor which measures 6 x 6 x 3 cm
in aggregate and weighs :55 g Representative sections of the specimen are submitted to the '
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted In 12 cassettes as

follows:
At: Ovary.
A2: Fallopian tube.
A348: Representative sections of the portion cf uterus with overlying serosa.

hem 2:Representatlve sections oi the freelloailng fragments of tissue.

8 Specimen B 15 received fresh labeled" remaining portion of uterus bilateral tubes and
ovariesj’ The specimen consists of art enlarged and distorted by the armor uterus which measures 18
cm from proximal to distal 95 cm transversely and up to 10 4 cm from anterior to posterior. Attached
to the uterus is a white ovary (3 x 2 x 1 cm weighing 5.6 g) and a right ﬁmbnated fallopian tune (5.5 cm
in length and up to 8.4 cm in diameter}. The surface of the right ovary is pink-tan. smooth and
glistening. Orr sectioning, the ovary reveals grossly unremarkable ovarian parenchyma. The right
fallopian tube reveals an area of ligation. The portions of lailopian tube adjacent to the this area are
grossly unremarkable and reveal a pinpoint, grossly unremarkable lumen. There is a small portion of
left fallopian tube attached to the uterus measuring 1.0 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. There is
an irregular serosal and mural defect on the posterior aspect of the uterine body measuring 10 x 5 x 3
cm, weighing 1210 g. This area is consistent with the portion of uterus received in wntainer A. The
remaining uterine body is covered by pink—tan, congested, smooth, and glistening serosa. Prior to
sectioning, the specimen is inked as follows:

Anterior aspect of the utems and cervix: Black.

Posienbr: Blue.

On sectioning. the uterus reveals arr irregular, ill—deﬁned. rubbery solid tumor which measures 18 it 9 x
9 cm- The tumor involves anterior and posterior myometriumr, lower uterine segment, and cervix and
extends to within 9.1 cm of the radial cervical resection margin. The tumor bulges in the cervical
mucosa and endmletrium and partially adjacent but does not appear to extend through the serosa
covering the uterine body. The endooervical canal and endomeb'iai canal cavity are distorted by the
tumor. The endocervicai canal measures 5.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.3 to 0.8 cm diameter.
The endometriai cavity up to 7 x 3.5 x as cm and exhibits pink~tan, focally hemorrhagic endometr-ium
which measures 0.1 cm in thickness. The cut surface of the tumor is pink-tan to gray, locally
hemorrhagic and necrotic. The areas of necrosis and hemorrhage occupy less than 10% of the tumor.
The remaining myomeirium is tan, trabecuiated. and ranges from 0.5 to 1.5 cm in thickness. The
tumor also extends to within 0.3 cm or the closest radial resection margin of the cervix. No tissue was

submitted to the _ . Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted in 20 cassettes as follows: .

Bl: Right ovary.

82; Right fallopian tube-

33: The portion of leﬂ fallopian tube.

84: Anterior cervix-

as: Posterior cervix.

seer: Sections of the anterior aspect of the proximal cervix involved by the
tumor.

m9: Cross sections of the posterior aspect of the proximal cervix involved by
the tumor.

510—811: Additional sections of the tumor in relation to the closest posterior aspect

or the radial resection margin of the cervix.

812-313: . Anterior endomyometrium.

9,14: Rosterior endomyometrium.

3154320: Addition sections of the tumor.

C Specimen C is received fresh labeled ”portion of omentum The specimen consists of an

irregular unoriented portion or omental adipose tissue measuring 12 x it and ranges from 0 .3 to 1.0
cm in thickness. There are multiple subserosat loci of hemorrhage which range from 0 t to 0 5 cm in
greatest dimension. No tumoror other lesions are grossly identiﬁed. Representative sections of the
specimen are submitted in 4 cassettes, {31-04.

 

