uum:61572A15-Dan-4£41-A539- Page 1 °f5
TCGA_Y2_A985_B 1F05521F64F7

mumnmuunumumIlllﬁﬁ'lﬁﬁlulluIIIII'I‘IﬁIi'IﬁiIted
ac“ lllllllllIIIIIIHHIIIIHIIIHlllllllllllll
F £3". mmullmnnmmuummnmnmi”Hil'miil'l'llim

Result Information

Status Provider Status
Edited Reviewed

Reviewed by List
MDom
D on

Observation Date and Time

 

 

 

Egtrv Date
Result Narrative
(NOTE) Swab—0 :5
MW, Q/WMLQ WW

Surgical Pathology Report W “$779213
Patient Name: _ EEC/£1 @ ‘ ‘ ‘ 0095
Accession #: ﬂ ,

Med. Rec #: J 94.; aha/it}
Submitting Physician: p

——— Clinical History ———
Malignant neoplasm of choroid [190.6]. Medical History:

Thyroid disease.
Hypothyroidism. OSA (obstructive sleep apnea).

ADDEN DA:
Addendum added:

—-—Finel Pathologic Diagnosis———

A. Right eye, enucleation:
— Malignant melanoma, predominantly spindle cell type.

All controls show appropriate reactivity.

The immunohistochemical and/or in situ hybridization tests reported here,
except for those addressing HER—Z/neu overexpression, have been developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

at the " ‘ and are not required to
have nor do they have FDA approval.

***Electronically Signed By***
MD

“ Page 1 of5

Page 2 of 5

-——Addendum Report—~-

Addendum Status: Signed Out

Unchanged.

The optic nerve margin is negative for tumor.

*m-Synoptic Report——~
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR UVEAL MELANOMA
Procedure:
Enucleation
Specimen Size:
2.2 X 2.2 X 2.2 cm
Anteroposterior diameter: 22 mm
Horizontal diameter: 22 mm
Vertical diameter: 22 mm
Length of optic nerve: 1.5 mm
Diameter of optic nerve: 1.5 mm
Specimen Laterality:
Right
Tumor Site:
Posterior central
Tumor Size:
1.9 x 1.9 x 1.0 cm
Tumor Involvement of Other Ocular Structures (select all that apply)
Sclera: tumor attached with focal invasion
Optic disc: involved
Vitreous: not involved
Choroid: involved
Ciliary body: not involved
Iris: not involved
Lens: not involved
Anterior chamber: not involved
Extrascleral extension (anterior): absent
Extrascleral extension (posterior): absent
Optic nerve: not involved
Retina: not involved
Histologic Type (E):
Spindle cell type
Margins:
thrascleral extension (for enucleation specimens): absent

TNM Definitions.

TX primary tumor can not be ascertained
T0 no evidence of primary tumor

Iris:
T1 tumor limited to iris

T2 tumor confluent with or extending into the ciliary body and/or
choroid

T3 As T2, with scleral extension

_ Page 2 of 5

Page 3 of 5

T4 tumor with extraocular extension

Ciliary body and choroid:
T1 tumor 12mm or less in diameter and 6mm or less in height

T2 tumor greater than 12mm but no more than 18mm in diameter and between
6 and

9mm in height

T3 tumor no more than 18mm in diameter and between 9 and 15mm in height
T4 tumor greater than 18mm in diameter and greater than 15mm in height

***The above synoptic report complies, in slightly modified form, with the
guidelines of the College of American Pathologists Protocols and the AJCC

Cancer Staging Manual, 7th edition, 2010, for the reporting of cancer
specimens.***

---MICROSCOPIC:---

Histologic sections show a cellular neoplasm composed of plump, spindled
cells arranged in fascicles involving the choroid with focal invasion into
the sclera. The optic nerve, extra—scleral tissues, ciliary body, and lens
are uninvolved. Occasional areas of pigment deposition are present in the
tumor. Mitotic figures are frequent and necrosis is absent.

---SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED:~—-'

Neuropath, Eye, enucleation/evisceration

---GROSS DESCRIPTION:--—

The specimen is received in one properly labeled container with the
patient' 5 name and accession number.

A. The specimen is designated "right eye" and consists of an
intact globe measuring 2.2 cm from anterior to posterior, 2.4 cm from
superior to inferior, and 2.4 cm from medial to lateral. The specimen is
received previously incised from superior to inferior, in a coronal plane.
The cornea measures 1.3 x 1.3 cm, is clear, and has a 0.6 cm dilated pupil.
The optic nerve stump measures 0.3 x 0.2 cm. On cut section, there is a
1.9 (diameter) x 1.0 (height) on dark brown mass, primarily located in the

central eye slab. The lens is in situ. No detachment of the retina is
noted. RS 2

Summary of Cassettes: A1, central eye slab, horizontal section,

anterior part; A2, central eye slab, horizontal section, posterior part;
AXl, optic nerve

Note: Optic nerve margin to be submitted pending retrieval from
Tissue Procurement.

Lab Use Only: Job ID

Gross description by:

Amp/4

    

- .

Initials

 

