 

   

TCGA-bH-5143

 

CLINICAL HISTORY: old male with seizure history for
Headache, visual problems. MRI reveals left anterior lateral temporal

lobe lesion.
GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimen in the Department-of

Pathology, labeled with the patient's name an

  

 

A. Brain tumor
B. Brain tumor
A. The specimen is received fresh designated "brain tumor" and consists

of a 5.2 x 3.5 x 1.6 cm portion of cortical gray matter and some cortical
white matter with a 3.2 x 3.0 x 1.4 cm homogeneous mass at one edge. The
graywwhite junction in the other portion of the specimen is smudged and
obscured. The portion is submitted for frozen section. The frozen section
diagnosis is "Diffuse low grade glioma" b The frozen
section tissue is submitted entirely for permanent processing in cassette
FSAl and additional sections are submitted in cassettes A2 through A6. A
portion of the tissue is also submitted to the
B. The specimen is received fresh designated "brain tumor" and consists
of a 2.2 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm portion of gray— white to beige soft tissue with
possible white matter visible at one edge. The specimen is submitted in

cassettes B1 and B2.

DIAGNOSIS.
A. "Brain tumor":
Anaplastic mixed. glioma oligoastrocytoma (WHO Grade III)
B. "Brain tumor":

Anaplastic mixed glioma oligoastrocytoma (WHO Grade III)

COMMENT: This tumor consists primarily of large areas of diffuse
low—grade glioma with primarily astrocytic features but also containing
oligodendrogliomatous areas. There are a few areas of increased
cellularity in which there are increased mitoses. The Ki-67 labeling
index is 5—10% in such areas while the remainder of the tumor shows less
nuclear labeling. 953 protein immunoreactivity is noted in slightly
greater than 50% of tumor cells. GFAP shows variable reactivity
throughout the tumor. These results support the diagnosis.

"I, or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination and
description and I have personally reviewed the gross description and
specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this

report."
ResidentXProseotor/Pathologi st : -

Note: Test systems have been develo ed and their erformance
characteristics determined by H ccmc tests

have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. These tests
are used for clinical purposes and should not be regarded as
investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the

 

Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of as qualified

to perform high com lexity clinical laboratory testing.

Pathologist
Electronically signed—
ADDENEDUM-
CHROMOSOMES 11? AND 19o ANALYSIS:
FLUORESCENCE IN SITU HYBRIDIZATION (FISH) WAS PERFORMED ON REPRESENTATIVE
PARAFFIN EMBEDDED TUMOR TISSUE -.
IN THIS CASE, NO DELETIONS OF 1P OR 1953 WERE IDENTIFIED.
-

REFERENCES :

 

 

