Surgical Pathology Report

 

Name:
DOB:

1|“ Case #: _
-‘ Collected:

Gender: F Received:

MRN:

Location:

Reported: _ _ _ _
Copy To:

--.

Physician: I

A.

W
Specimen:

Pathologlc interpretation:

     
 

LEEEBREAST LUMP MASS (1 STTICH SUPERIOR, 2 STITCHES LATERAL. 3 STITCHES DEEP):

- iNVASlVE DUCTAL CARCINOMA. MICROPAPILLARY TYPE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED. Noilin gham grade 2

(3+2+1=6). 1.9 cm in greatest microscopic dimension.
- Lymphovascuiar invasion is seen.
- Resection margins are free of invasive carcinoma. closest margin is the anterior (4 mm).

- IN SITU DUCTAL CARCINOMA. INTERMEDIATE NUCLEAR GRADE (DIN 2) WITH EXTENSIVE NECquSIS.
cribriform type. representing 10% of tissue sampled.

- Resection margins are free of DCIS. closest margin is the anterior (10 cm)
- Previous biopsy site

- See tumor summary.

- AJCC: pTic. pN1a. pMn/a
LEFT AXILLARY CONTENTS:

- Metastatic carcinoma in one out of twenty-three lymph nodes (“23).
- Largest metastatic deposit is 2.5 mm.

/cA-Jr3

- Partial breast Com?» mg nil/mix WWWMQ/ 8507/3

Procedure: . ‘

- Excision without wire—guided localization ‘5 ’h ' W N05 @5019 J/b/ﬂ
Lymph Node Sampling: M
- Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)

 

Specimen Integrity:

- Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated) ;
Specimen Siae:

- Greatest dimension: 11.5 cm

' Additional dimension: 7.5 x 3.5 cm.

Lateraiity:

‘- Left ‘

W Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma

- Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2 cm

Tumor Focallty:

- Single focus of invasive carcinoma

Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:

- Skin: Skin is not present

- Skeletal muscle: No skeletal muscle present

Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS):

- DCIS is present .
' ize (Eﬁnt) of DCIS: Representing 10% of tumoral surface wm'”953°“'"”4577Jess-snagging;

Architectural Patterns: Cribriform i“ ll "HHTI

CGA- Ew-A1

WWW We .. (mm, in mm "Milli”!lilillﬂliloiiiliI-lii'l‘lIliiliiiililliileii'iilaiiitMI

Necrosis: Present. central (expansive 'comedo' necrosis)

1 Ililllillﬂllllillill!lHlHllllllilllllllllli I i

- Not identiﬁed.

Lower Carcinom IN snu (LCIS): I” ”lilllllillillllllililMilli“lillillHHlilllHlHilli'll'llil'

Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma:

- Invasive micrcpapiiiary CFFClDQEFP...,

Histologic Grade: Nottingham Histologic Score
Glandular (AcinaryTubuiar Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 2

n SURGICAL PATHOL Report g,

Mitotic Count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2: score of 6
Margins:
- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
- Distance irom closest margin: 4 mm (anterior)
- Margins uninvolved by DCIS:
- Distance irom closest margin: 10 mm (anterior)
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurglcel (Neoadluvent) therapy:
- In the Breast: No known presurgical therapy
- in the Lymph Nodes: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular invasion: PRESENT
' m h-Va lar lnv ' : No skin present
Lymph Nodes:
- Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
- Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentlnel): 23
- Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>02 cm): 1
- Number of lymph nodes with mlcrometastases (>02 mm to 0.2 cm and [or >200 cells): 0
- Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (50.2 mm and $200 cells): 0
- Size of largest metastatic deposit (if present): 2.5 mm
'Extranodal Extension: Not identiﬁed
Pathologlc Staging (pTNM)
~ Primary Tumor: pT1c
- Regional Lymph Nodes: pN1a
- Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:

Estrogen Receptor:

- Perfomled on another specimen: ; Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).
Progesterone Receptor:

- Performed on another specimen ; Results: lmmunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).
Her2:

- Performed on another specimen: l; Results: Negative

AJCC classification (1" ed) pT1c. pN1a, pMnla

NOTE: Solar immortal“! antibodir: an only» rprrlﬂt reagent: (ASRJ) wiidrmd by our Mom. near ASK: m clirlkaiiy artful indium” M rh not require FDA approval. Me (lees: I" used:
[Db-ER. P‘R m-PR. A415 =HER2, H—l [*EGFR. All immhumhrrlkd this: an and Mriifoneahn wwlerirlarfmrl. We embedded rinse. Daemon l: by Envision Method. The m an read by a
”WI a: pruiilw or negative.

A: the attending pathologist. I arrest rhar I: (i) Examined the relevant preparationm
ﬁzr rile .rpecimen(.r); and (ii) Rendered the diagnoer(e.r).

”Electronically Signed Out By'“

   

Clinlg] Histgﬂ;
None Provided

tlo orrn
Left breast lumpectomy with axillary node dissection

Pr rativ i no i :
Breast cancer, female

Specimenis) Received: .

A: Left breast lump mass (1 sttich superior, 2 stitches lateral. 3 stitches deep)
B: Left axillary contents

- null-i- -_ mam

 

 

e

. 1; SURGICAL PATHOL Report

Gro sDesc ti n:

A.

ﬁbrosis

 

Received in formalin is a 180 gram 11.5 x 7.5 x 3.5 cm left lumpectomy specimen without wire guide. The

  

oriented with one stitch superior. two stitches lateral and three stitches deep. Resection margins are inked s follows:
Superior blue. inferior green. medial red, lateral orange, deep black. anterior yellow. On serial section thro gh the
specimen. there is a tan-white ill-defined indurated mass with inﬁltrating borders that measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 1 5 cm. This

mass is present at 0.6 cm from the anterior margin. 2.0 cm from the superior margin. 2.2 cm from the lnferi
cm from the deep margin. 3.8 cm from the lateral margin and 2.7 cm from the medial margin. An area of
Is present adjacent to the mass. This area measures 2.8 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. No other lesions are identiﬁed.
parenchyma has a fat to Stroma ratio of 80—20. Sections submitted as follows:

Anterior margin (closest)

Inferior margin

Superior and deep margin

Lateral and deep margins

Lesions submitted in toto

Representative section of ﬁbrotic area adjacent to lesion

CD:#UM—B

Received In formalin is a segment of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue. measuring 13.0 x 11.0 x 4.0 cm. Exa
Specimen reveals multiple possible lymph nodes, measuring up to 2.4 cm. Sections submitted as follows:
1-7 One lymph node bisected per cassette

8 Four lymph nodes per cassette

9-12 Three lymph nodes per cassette

MD

 
 
  
     
 
   
 
 
   

:riteria

__.._‘___
l’iimor sitL-
“PM
‘rior

 
 

his is
teviewer

ﬂ .7 -‘

 

margin, 2.4

ination of the

 

