 

- - . UUID:4D864947-o76c-4A65-940D-682E75E52SA2
a Patient: Referring Physmlan. TCGA- AC- Aaas- 61A n edacted

 

DOB: Age: Gender:F
Ref#: Hosp#: Patient Location:
Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatient Case #:

Room: l Bed: Date Reported:

 

A copv of this report will be faxed to:

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Cr rlterll
‘N‘
D- iS' W
lagnos g Pm. 'er “0’“ "15! “iii-‘1 liancrep
”Wk
W" M-‘ mane; History

   
   

BREAST, RIGHT, MODIFIED RADICAL MASTECTOMY:
- Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 2.
- Tumor size at least 65 mm, see comment.
- Surgical margins negative.
- Five of fourteen lymph nodes POSITIVE for carcinoma (5/14).
- Extracapsular extension identified.

ICA~ 0 3
CWW- m mm, Imam» N» to 30/3
Sfflrf M9) (:90 ? A) 10/137”

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (Invasive): Invasive Iobular carcinoma, grade 2.
Type and grade (in situ): Lobular carcinoma in situ.
Primary tumor: pT3.
Regional lymph nodes: pN2a (5/14 lymph nodes positive).
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: lllA.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.
Margin status: R0, negative.

COMMENT: The tumor size is measured at least 6.5 cm grossly, however, there is a
second tumor mass grossly noted that shows similar histology to the large tumor
mass grossly noted. On random sections between the two tumor masses, invasive
Iobular carcinoma Is seen, therefore, these masses are considered to be one large
tumor mass rather than two separate masses (overall gross estimate of 14 cm).
Results discussed with Dr.

Case #: Page 1

Printed? - This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone: Fax:

 

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information

(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed. and CAP protocol, Oct 2009)
This staging also incorporates: '

Previous biopsy:

Breast profile: '

Other: N/A.

Specimen type:

Specimen procedure:

Lymph node sampling:

Specimen integrity:

Specimen iateraiity:

Specimen size (other than mastectomy):

lNVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
invasive tumor size:
invasive tumor site:
invasive tumor focaiity:

Histologic type:

Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubuie formation:
Nuclear Pieomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:

Mitotic count:

Other Grading System:

Lymphatic invasion:

MARGIN STATUS FOR lNVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closet margin:
Other margins:

DUCTAL CARCINOMA lN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA lN-SITU (LCIS):

Skin:

Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:

lNVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (pT):

Total breast including nipple and skin.
Modified radical mastectomy.
Axillary dissection.

Single intact specimen.

Right.

2,220 grams, 28 x 23 x 6 cm.

At least 65 mm.

Upper outer quadrant.

Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
invasive lobular carcinoma.
Grade 2, cumulative score 6 of 9.
Less than 5% (3 of 3).
intermediate (2 of 3).

Low (1 of 3).

Two per ten high power field.
NlA.

Not identified.

R0, negative.

Deep at 15 mm.
All other margins 15 mm or greater.

Not identified.
Present.

Present, invades skin, no ulceration or
iymphovascular invasion.

Present, tumor invades nipple.
Not identified.

pT3.

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN2a (5/14 lymph nodes POSITIVE).
Distant metastasis (pM): ' pMX.
Pathologic stage: lllA.

RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:

Estrogen receptors: POSITIVE (SS-100% positive cells, strong
intensity).
Progesterone receptors: POSITIVE (QC-100% positive cells, strong
intensity).
Her2/neu: Negative (0. scale 0-3+).
Kl-67 proliferative index: Low (2-5% positive cells).
COMMENT: The biomarkers are combined from previous

cases and show a similar staining pattern. The
patient had tWo previous biopsies. howaver, on
the mastectomy specimen, there are two
identified masses, however, there is intervening
tumor cells and both tumor masses show a
similar histology, therefore, its felt to represent
one large tumor mass. in addition to the five
macrometastases seen in the fourteen lymph
nodes, two additional lymph nodes show isolated
tumor cells (and are not included in the five
positive nodes).

Additional pathologic findings: Apocrine metaplasla, atypical lobular
hyperplasia. usual ductal hyperplasia.

 

, MD,
Signed by

 

Source of Specimen:
Right Breast total mastectomy

Ii 'c i to 0 e tive Dx:
Right breast cancer.

Gross Description:

The specimen is labeled right breast modified radical mastectomy and is received without fixative. It
consists of a modified radical mastectomy which weighs 2,220 grams. Overall, the specimen measures 28
x 23 x 6 cm. There is an overlying broad ellipse of brown skin measuring 30 x 19.5 cm. Centrally and
slightly superioriy within the skin, there is a 7.5 cm areola and a protuberant 1.5 cm nipple. The
peripheral skin displays five sharply delineated dark brown, smooth, shiny papules. The anterior-superior
margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin. which consists
of smooth facial tissue, is inked black. Axillary tissue is present with at stitch marking the axilla. The
axillary tail measures 10 x 5 x 2 cm. in the lower outer quadrant of the breast, there is palpably firm and
hemorrhagic breast parenchyma which is very poorly delineated. There is some bright yellow
discoloration of the associated fatty tissue. This area of firm fibrous parenchyma involves an area

Case #: Page 3

Printed: Phone: , This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

measuring 6.5 cm from medial to lateral, 5.5 cm from superior to inferior, and up to 3 cm from superficial
to deep. The fibrous tissue is 4 cm from the closest inferior margin, 12 cm from the closest superior margin,
9 cm from the closest medial margin, and 11 cm from the closest lateral margin. it is 2.5 cm from the
closest deep margin, and 2 cm from the closest skin. Representative sections of this tissue are obtained for
research purposes. Further examination of the breast reveals scattered moderately dense, tan-white
fibrous parenchyma throughout all four quadrants. in the IOWeI' outer quadrant of the breast centrally, 5.5
cm lateral to the palpably firm breast tissue, there is an additional ill-defined 2 cm area of moderately
dense fibrous tissue with very focal bright yellow discoloration of the surrounding fat. This lower outer
quadrant fibrous parenchyma is 1.5 cm from the closest margin which is the deep margin. it is 5 cm from
the closest lateral margin, and greater than 5 cm from all other margins, except for the skin where it is 1.8
cm from the skin. There are multiple palpable firm nodes within the axillary portion of the dissection.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:

A1) nipple and tissue lust deep to nipple,

A2) representative skin including small papules,

A3) sections from medial edge of palpably firm and fibrous tissue,

A4—A6) central sections of firm neoplastic tissue submitted from superior to inferior,

AT-AB) representative sections of lateral edge of fibrous tissue,

A9) representative section of fibrous tissue from far lateral lower outer quadrant,

A10) representative deep margin far lateral lower outer quadrant,

A11) representative deep margin central breast underlying palpably firm tissue,

A12) representative tissue from upper inner quadrant,

A13) representative tissue lower inner quadrant,

A14) representative tissue upper outer quadrant,

A15) representative sections of lower outer quadrant (in between palpable central tumor and far lateral
lower outer quadrant sections),

A16) representative sections of largest 2.7 cm node (grossly suspicious for tumor),

A17) single node, bivalved (grossly suspicious for tumor),

A18) single node, trisected (grossly suspicious),

A19) single node, trisected.

A20) two nodes, inked and bivalved, one possible node intact,

A21) one node, inked and bivalved, possible smaller nodes intact,

A22-A25) additional sections following reexamination for possible lymph nodes.

Microscopic Dggcription:
Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered. lmmunohistochemlstry was performed with adequate control for OSCAR keratin.

Case #I Page 4

Printed: REPRINT: Orig. printing on
Phone: Fax:

