 

Specimen(s) Received

H&E, First x 1, Frozen section, first x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, Flrst x 1, Recut H&E x

1,
H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut

H&Ex1

H&E, First x I, !ecut lg! x !, ﬁg! illlrs! x !, low! !!! x !, HLE, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut

H&E x
1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut
H&E x 1,

H&E, Fi

  
  
 

 

H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E x 1 H&E First x 1, Recut H&E x 1, H&E, First x 1, Recut H&E X 1

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Right fallopian tube and ovary, resection: High grade papillary serous carcinoma
with areas of necrosis and anaplasia, see comment.

. Uterus, left ovary and tube, and pelvic tumor, resection:

Cervix: mild chronic inflammation.

Endometrial atrophy with tubal metaplasia.

Leiomyomata.

Left ovary: No tumor identified.

Left fallopian tube: No tumor identified.

. Soft tissue from pelvis: High grade papillary serous carcinoma, identical to
that in part A.

7. Fragment of fallopian tube, side not specified: No tumor identified.

C. Tissue adherent to rectum, resection:

1. High grade papillary serous carcinoma implant.

2. Endometriosis, microscopic.

mwswwrm

Note:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

Type of tumor: Papillary serous carcinoma.

Grade of tumor: III (scale I-III).

Site of tumor: Right ovary.

Location of tumor: The tumor replaces all recognizable ovarian structures.
Cut surface: Solid.

Necrosis: Present, extensive.

’Iof4

 

 

Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Absent.

Sites of metastasis in pelvis: Tumor is present in the tissue removed from the pelvis
in part B as well as

in the tissue adherent to the rectum in part C.

Pelvic lymph nodes: None sampled.

Sites of metastasis in abdomen: Not sampled.

Para-aortic lymph nodes: None sam led.

Peritoneal cytology: Positive ﬂ

Other abnormalities: Microscopic endometriosis is present in the tissue adherent to
the rectum.

FIGO stage: At least IIC (no lymph nodes or peritoneum submitted).
TNM stage: At least pT2cNXlVlX (no lymph nodes or peritoneum submitted).

Additional comments: The tumor is quite mitoticaliy active, showing up to 7

mitoses/high power field,
some of which are atypical. Large areas of necrosis are present. Tumor is present in

the tissue submitted
as right ovary, in the tissue designated as being from the pelvis in part B, and in the

tissue adherent to the
rectum (part C). The left ovary and fallopian tube are free of tumor. I --
was informed

of these findings on-

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis

1. (Specimen A) Righ ' be, right salpingo-oophorectomy: Carcinoma consistent
with ovarian primary.

Clinical History

The patient is an H with a preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cancer. Patient undergoes
a transabdominal ysterectomy an bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in four parts (A—D), each labeled with the patient's name and number. Part D is
for research purposes.

Part A is received fresh, labeled "tumor mass~~portion of right tube and ovary", and consists of multiple
tan

and maroon, soft, segments of tissue measuring 15.3 x 12.2 x 10.3 cm. Due to the large amount of
apparent tumor, normal architectural structures are not identified. No fallopian tube, residual ovary or
identifiable ovarian capsule is apparent. Representative section is submitted for frozen section analysis
#1

with subsequent placement into cassette A1. Additional representative sections taken at 1.0 cm
increments

are submitted in cassettes A2-A7.

Part B is received in formalin, labeled "cervix~~uterus—~portion of tumor—~left ovary and tubes", and

20f4

 

 

consists
of a uterus and cervix with attached left tube and ovary as well as an additional segment of fallopian

tube

with attached perimetrium (separate from the main specimen) and multipin tissue
with an apparent papillated tumor weighing 199.8 gm. A call was made to who
stated that this separate tumor tissue is from the pelvis. The uterus measures 7.8 cm from fundus to
cervix, 5.1 cm from cornu to cornu, 4.3 cm from anterior to posterior, and is oriented by the relation of
the

round ligaments to the Fallopian tubes as well as the peritoneal reflections. The serosa is distorted by
approximately six subserosal nodules ranging in size from 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm to 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The
uterine cavity sounds to 4.8 cm. The cervix measures 2.6 cm in length x 2.1 cm in width. The external
05

is fishmouth and measures 0.6 cm in width. The surgical incision margins of the uterus are inked in
black.

The uterus is opened along the lateral borders. The endometrium is tan, measures <0.1 mm, and
contains

no polyps. The myometrium measures 1.1 cm and contains multiple subserosal and intramural
lelomyomas ranging in size from 0.1 cm in all dimensions to 1.6 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm in dimension. 0n cut
section, they are well—circumscribed, firm, white-tan and have a whoried appearance. The left Fallopian
tube measures 5.8 cm in length x 0.5 cm in average diameter. The fimbria are lush. On cut section, the
tube is unremarkable. The left ovary measures 2.7 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm. The surface is smooth. On cut
section,

the ovary is unremarkable. One of the separate fragments of tissue has a Fallopian tube within it
measuring 5.2 cm in length x 0.5 cm in average diameter. On cut section, the tube is unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette B1: Anterior cervix.

Cassette 82: Posterior cervix.

Cassette B3: Anterior myometrium.

Cassette B4: Posterior myometrium.

Cassette BS: Subserosal and intramural nodules.

Cassette 86: Left ovary and tube.

Cassette 87: Multiple sections of separate soft tissue ("pelvic tumor").
Cassette BB: Separate segmnent of fallopian tube.

Cassette B9: Additional endometrial sections.

Part C, labeled "tumor-—adherent to rectum", consists of multiple maroon and tan, fragmented, soft
segments of tissue measuring 5.1 x 5.1 x 3.6 cm in aggregate. On cut section, the segments appear to
represent segments of large bowel with serosal hemorrhage with small white islands of tumor adherent
to

the large bowel serosa. Representative section of the tissue is submitted in cassettes C1-C3.

Part D is submitted as ovary project blocks are 5 brown plastic cassettes containing small tissue
fragments.

Processed for research in cassettes Dl-DS.

 

Other Specimens

30f4

 

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep
Final Diagnosis
Vaginal, Thin Prep
CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactor for evaluation.

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep

Final Diagnosis

Vaginal, Thin Prep

CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.
Atrophic pattern

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactori for evaluation.

pecrmen s ecelve : sc: IC ui
Final Diagnosis

Ascitic Fluid

ADENOCARCINOMA, METASTATIC.

  

    

Ipeumenl SI !ecelve!: !!!lll!!!

Final Diagnosis
STOMACl—l, ANTRUM, BIOPSY: FOCAL CHRONIC ACTIVE GASTRITIS, N0 HELICOBACTER PYLORI

IDENTIFIED.
Conversion

 

 

4of4

 

