Page 10! 4

 

r .-.-:.-.:ems-42;.“13"“:2': 342-2521

UUID:81FC9A66-472B-488F- BE2B- BE2E74E5A6D6
TCGA-SS nA7HO-9

1A-PR Redacted
IllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Ill
6 u .1 1.} M Ill lllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll((

._ ., m M... ' Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Fin 1 Pathologic Diagnosis

A) RIGHT COLON AND DISTAL ILEUM (PARTIAL COLECTOIIIIY):
- Invasive colonic adenocarcinoma (See synoptic report).

  
     

      
     

        
  

     

B) INFERIOR MARGIN (PARTIAL COLECTOMY):

- Fibromuscular tissue with atrophy, necrosis. granulation tissue and
chronic inﬂammation.
- Negative for malignancy.

C) POSTERIOR MARGIN (PARTIAL COLECTOMY):
- Organizlng fat necrosis with inﬂammatlon.
- Negative for malignancy.

D) LATERAL MARGIN (PARTIAL COLECTOMY):

- Fibromuscular tissue with atrophy and chronic inﬂammation.
- Negative for malignancy.

E) SUPERIOR MARGIN (PARTIAL COLECTOMY):
- Organizing fat necrosis with inﬂammation.
— Negative for malignancy.

NOTE: This case was revlewed in conjunction with one or more attending pathologists In this
department who concur(s) with the above diagnosis.

i attest l have personally reviewed the specimen/slides and agree with the above ﬁndings.
[Ca {3 . 3

{M2 Emmmgﬂos 8140/5
Est/£1; @235! d)?-O

945 glass} L3

Resident:

Synoptic Report
A: COLONIRECTUM. RESECTION -
SPECIMEN:

Terminal ileum

Cecum

Appendix

Ascending colon
PROCEDURE:

Right hemicolectomy

Page 20f4

 
 

Irr- ...._.....,- u... um

 

Specimen length (if applicable):
Specify 35.3 cm
TUMOR SITE:
Cecum
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimension: 9.5 cm
'Additional dimensions: 8.5 x 8.0 cm
MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION:
Present
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
HIgh-grade (poorly differentiated to undifferentiated)
HISTOLOGIC FEATURES SUGGESTIVE OF MICROSATELLITE INSTABILITY:
Intratumoral Lymphocytie Response (tumor-inﬁltrating lymphocytes)
Mild to moderate (0-2 per high-powered (x400) field)
Peritumor Lymphocytic Response (Crohn-like response)
Mild to moderate
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum (serosa) and directly invades
adjacent structures (specifyz) soft tissue
MARGINS:
Proximal Margin
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distal Margin
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Circumferential (Radial) or Mesenteric Margin
Involved by invasive carcinoma (tumor present 0-1 mm from margin)
TREATMENT EFFECT:
Not known
LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:

Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Not identiﬁed
TUMOR DEPOSITS (discontinuous extramural extension):
Not identiﬁed
TYPE OF POLYP IN WHICH INVASIVE CARCINOMA AROSE:
Tubular adenoma
PATHOLOGIC STAGING:
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT)
pT4a: Tumor penetrates the visceral peritoneum
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Specify Number examined: 25
Number involved: 0
DISTANT METASTASIS (pMX)
Not applicable
COMMENT(S)::
Focal squamous differentiation in the tumor is noted (section A4).

 

Page 3 at 4

     

an

‘— 2’... twin.- -’ wwmmazaswza
Special Procedures
WCAL STAINS:

Stains performed at _

Representative tissue present In all sections examined.
Positive and negative controls react appropriately.
Interpreted by: Performed on block(s): A4

CK7: Negative.
CK20: Patchy positivity in a small subset of tumor cells.

This test was developed and its pertonnence characteristics determined by It
has not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Foodsnd Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or
approval is not necessary. Tlrls test is used for clinical purposes. it should not lie regarded as lnvestlgatlonal or for research.
This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CUA-BB) as qualiﬁed to perform
high complexity cflnlcal laboratory testlng.

Clinical History
Not provided.

Pre / Post-operative Diagnosis
Colon cancer.

Gross Anatomic Description

Specimens received in ﬁve conlalners.

m Designated “right colon distal ileum“ is received in formalin labeled with the patients
name and "right colon distal ileum". Specimen consists of a portion of ileum with attached right colon
which measures a total of 35.3 cm in length. The small intestine measures 17.2 cm in length x 3.5 cm
in cross sectional diameter. The colon measures 18.1 cm In length and the cross sectional diameter
ranges from 5.6 cm distally to 10.2 cm surrounding an enlarged area with focal puckerlng of the
serosal surface. Attached to the colon is a portion of muscle and connective tissue located posteriorly
which measures 12.5 x 6.3 x 5.1 cm. The remainder of the serosal surface of both the lleum and right
colon are smooth. tan/pink and unremarkable. Attached pericolic ﬁbroadipose tissue Is present. This
area of puckering measures 9.5 cm from the colonic resection margin. The area composed of the
muscle and connective tissue is inked green. The ileal wall measures 0.2 cm in thickness and the
mucosal surface of the ileum with grossly unremarkable. Grossly adjacent to the ileal cecal valve is a
large variegated polypoid exophytic pink to green colored bosselated mass measuring 9.5 x 8.0 cm
and extends to a depth of 8.5 cm. Focally the mass extends to the inked green muscle connective
tissue resection margin. The remainder of the colonic mucosa is grossly unremarkable and tree of
additional polyps or diverticuli. The average wall thickness of the colon measures 0.2 cm to 0.3 cm.
Gross photographs are taken. Multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.2 cm up to 3.1 cm in
greatest dimension. The appendix is identiﬁed upon cross sectioning of the muscle and soft tissue.
The appendix is totally encased within the soft tissue making a measurement of length not possible.
The cross-sectional diameter averages 0.6 cm with an intact lumen that is 0.2 cm. The tumor does
appear grossly to involve the appendix. '

Gross photographs are taken.

Section code: A1 — colon resection margin: A2 - lleal resection margin; A3 - additional representative
section of unremarkable colon and ileum; A4-A7 - representative sections tumor; A8-A10 — sections
of tumor with deepest muscle and soft issue invasion extending to the inked margin; A11 - three

 

 

Page 4 of 4

  

(1.353;. . .n 11:32:93? «.‘SZ-l' - anagram Hf”: .6147 na‘f- .1. ~ .9 W at
possible lymph nodes; A 2 - three pose ble lymph nodes: A13 - three possuble lymph nodes. A14 -
four possible lymph nodes: A15 — three possible lymph nodes; A16 — two possible lymph nodes; A17 —
one possible lymph node: A18 — one possible lymph node: A19 — representative sections of appendix.

Specimen B; Designated "Inferior margin‘ is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and
"inferior margin". Specimen consists of two fragments of soft lanlyellow friable fibroadipose
connective tissue measuring 4.4 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm and 3.5 x 3.8 x 1.8 cm. Each specimen is entirely
inked blue. Cut surface of each piece reveals white firm ﬁbrous tissue admixed with tanlyellow
ﬁbroadipose tissue. Representative sections of the heavily ﬁbrous areas are submitted in casettes
81-88.

Section code: 81-58 - entire specimen.

Specimen c; Designated "posterior margin" is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name
and "posterior margin“. Specimen consists of two smal fragments of soft tanlyellow bosselated
ﬁbroadipose connective tissue each measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The specimens are both entirely
inked blue and bisected and submitted in one cassette.

Section code: C1 - entire specimen.

Specimen D: Designated "lateral margin“ is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and
"lateral margin". Specimen consists of a single portion of soft tanlyellow bosselated ﬁbroadlpose
connective tissue measuring 2.1 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The specimen ls entirely Inked blue. Cut surface
reveals predominantly yellow tan bosselated ﬁbrcadipose tissue with focal white ﬁbrous streaks.
Section code: D1 — entire specimen bisected.

Sgeglmen g; Designated "superior margin“ is received in formalin labeled with the patients name and
“superior margin“. Specimen consists of two small fragments of soft tanlyellmv bosselated
ﬁbroadipose connective tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and 2.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. Each specimen is
both entirely inked blue and bisected. Cut surface reveals predominantly yellow tan bosselated
ﬁbroadlpose tissue with focal white ﬁbrous streaks.

Section code: E1-E2 - one specimen each. bisected, entire specimen.

PmTSS,JﬁWUJLWIﬁX—-

Liz- W.

Tumnr Site

 

 

 

