 

Date or Procedure:
Date of Receipt:

, ) UK Date of Report:
Account #:
g. : Billing Type:
A . Additional Copy to:

 

 

Clinical Dia nosls &-Histor : ,
Right thyroid nodule with FNA #1 showing atypical cells with hyperceilularity and FNA #2 showing suspicioussfor neoplasm.
process. "

UUID:2F246E42-FAM-4E33-A22A-1F35ECC633FF
S ecimens Submitte : TCGA-DJ-“VM-aiA-PR Reim’ited

1: Right lobe of thyroid and isthmus (is) ill ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll ll
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
ill llllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Right lobe of thyroid and isthmus (is):

Tumor Type: ,
Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant 9‘? 9" Wheat“; VW pw I 35 W
with oncocytic features

Histologic Grade: ,
Well differentiated ‘ (JD/0’3 "
M't u' A t" : . - ' 3' ( lard’
l0 c C'wqixlotidentiﬁed (LafC/lhOmQ ' W$, “cc/V], g’ i0.» 4/ Var

Tumor Necrosis: $311313
Not identiﬁed .
slk‘4’f’quoicl, [615$

Tumor Location:

Right lobe C73, q 5th )2

Tumor Size: '11)
Greatest diameter is 3 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
Completely surrounded

Capsular invasion:
Not identified

Blood Vessel invasion:
Two foci of vascular invasion present.

Extrathyroid Extension:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identified

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

ll

 

Page i of 2

 

Exhibits nodular hyperplasla
Parathyroid Glands:

identified

One unremarkable parathyroid gland.

Comment: The nuclear features diagnostic of papillary carcinoma and the vascular invasion were not present on the frozen
section slides.

 

lATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSlS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THlS REPORT.

1 .
’*‘ Report ElectronicaliTSigned'Out “'

 

Gross Description; I

a “W- _
1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section and is labeled "right lobe of thyroid and isthmus". it consists of a thyroid lobe.
measuring 5 x 3.5 x 2 cm and isthmus measuring 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 with an overall weight of 15 g. The surface is smooth. The lobe is

inked black posterior and blue anterior. Serial sectioning reveals a well-circumscribed, thinly encapsulated. tan nodule with
dimension of 3 x 2.7 x 2 cm. A portion of tumor is submitted for frozen section and Remaining tissue is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
N - Noduie

RL — right lobe

is . isthmus

Summa of Sections:
Part 1: Right lobe of thyroid and isthmus (fs)

Block Sect. Site P03
1 F SC 1
1 l8 2
8 N 8
3 RL 3

Intraoperative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

1. Frozen section diagnosis: Right lobe of thyroid and isthmus (is): Hurthle cell neoplasm
Permanent diagnosis: See final report.

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

We , A.
I} 4 .'

