UUID : A1ED1E7A-FCAO-4F32-9687-88855105E262
TCGA-EM-ASFK-elA-PR Redacted

IH llllHIHHHIIHHIHIIHIllll|HIllllllllll”llllllllllllll .
lllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ORV MED'C'NE PROGRAM
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllll -

 

 

   

Accession all:

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
Service: Collected:

Patient Name:
MRN:
DOB: Visit #7 ' Received:

 

  
 
 
 

Gender: Location: Reported:
HCN: Facility.
Ordering MD:

Copy To:

 
 

 

Sgcimenm Received - I LA’o - 5 F /
1. Lymph—Node: let! paratracheal node \ ,1. l ‘l . 441‘“ “’1 a b0 3
2. Lymph node: Leﬂ level tour nodes neck A ' PW [M
. - : ‘ i‘ .‘ ‘ K
3 Parathyrord Right upper parathyroid OS 5’ {2 Max I All 6' r) 3, 7 11/“, "/31.“

4. Thyroid: total thyroid stitch marks upper pole

 

Diagnosis.
I 1. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 3 of 3 (left paratracheal) biopsy

2. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 6 (left neck level four), dissection specimen
3. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right upper) biopsy

4. Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant 1.2 cm. classic variant, isthmus: Thyroid
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 13 of 16
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid, left
-Total thyroidectomy specimen

Synoptic Data

Procedure: Total thyroidectomy with central compartment dissection
Received: Fresh

Specimen Integrity: intact

Specimen Size: Right lobe:

5.0 cm

1.8 cm

1.1 cm

Left lobe:

4.5 cm

2.1 cm

1.4 cm

isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:
2.7 cm

0.6 cm

0.7 cm

Central compartment

 

 

Pagetch

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report .—

 

Specimen Weight
Tumor Focality:

1.0 cm

1.0 cm

0.5 cm

15.8 g

Multifocal, bilateral .
Muitifocel, mldline (isthmus)

’.
“2‘

--------------- DOMINANT TUMOR--—-----~-----

Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Size:
Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Margins:

Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidai Extension:
--------------- SECOND
Tumor Lateraiity:
Tumor'Slze:
Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:

Margins: '

Tumor Capsule;

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):
Additional Pathologic Findings:

Isthmus

Greatest dimension: 1.2cm

Papillary carcinoma. classical (usual)

Classical (papillary) architecture

Classical cytomorphoiogy

Not applicable

Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.3mm

Partially encapsulated

Present. extent widely invasive
indeterminate

Not identiﬁed

Not identiﬁed

TUMOR ------------ -—

Left lobe

- Greatest dimension: 1.0cm

Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)
Ciassiml (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Not applicable
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma -
Partially encapsulated
Cannot be assessed
indeterminate
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
m (multiple primary tumors)
pT1: Tumor size 2 cm or less. limited to thyroid .
pN1b: Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contralateral cervial or superior
medastinal lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 25
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 17
Lymph Node. Extranodal Extension Not identiﬁed
Not. applicable
Thyroiditis, palpation
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits
Other: multiple Papillary microcancinomas, left and right

 

*Pathoiogic Staging is based on AJCC/UiCC TNM,

Electronicallv veriﬁed by:

 

Gross Descrigtion
1. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Lymph node: Lelt paratracheal node" consists of a piece of

5733

submitted in toto

tissue that measures 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm and contains 3 nodules ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 cm.

 

Page 2 or 3

 
 

_ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report _

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “Lymph node: Left neck level 4 nodes" consists of a piece of
tissue that measures 2.0 x 0.5 x 0.6 cm and contains multiple nodules ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 cm.
2A—B ’ submitted in toto

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Parathyroid: Right Upper Parathyroid 08" contains a pieceof
tissue that measures 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm and weighs 0.002 g. It is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
3A frozen tissue resubmitted

4. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as ”Total thyroid stitch marks upper right pole“ consists of a thyroid
gland that is received oriented with a suture and weighs 15.8 g. The right lobe measures 5.0 cm Sl x 1.8 cm ML x 1.1 cm
AP, the left lobe measures 4.5 cm Sl x 2.1 cm ML x 1.4 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.7 cm Sl x 0.6 cm ML x 0.7 cm
AP. The extemai surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands are identiﬁed grossly. Extending from the right
lower pole is a portion of soft tissue measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. Within this are several possible lymph nodes. The
extemai surface is painted with blue ink. The isthmus and left lobe contain multiple delineated nodules that measure up to
1.2 cm SI x 1.0 cm ML x 0.7_cm AP. The larger nodules are present in the isthmus and the upper pole of the left lobe.
The remainder of the thyroid tissue is red-brown and unremarkable. Sections of nodule and normal tissue are stored
frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

4A-F right lobe, superior to inferior

4G-H isthmus

4l-N left lobe, superior to inferior

40-P soft tissue with lymph nodes from right lower pole

Quick Section Diagnosis

QSSAr- Parathyroid tissue.

 

 

 

 

