UUID:7462A923-C657-4D38 -BF7C-9EC963
TCGA-BU-AQBG-OlA-P 9E7E4D

mmummmmumuunuI “ “Edam
lllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illullil'lii Willi"mm"
samm IllIlllllllllllllllllllllll

Gender: Male I971 0 (it a", ,
'Iﬂw
DOB:

l ‘ ' _
linmlnmlmmlllii'i'il'i'illl me; Aymara

Race: White Such @ LWW mfg? 4
Report Date: ‘ (9“) 6,161] I L)

Tissue Procurement Date:

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. #11 lymph node; biopsy:

- Two lymph nodes, no tumor (0/2).

B. Level 7 lymph node; dissection:

- Three lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 3).

C. #8 lymph node; biopsy:

- One lymph node, no tumor (0/1).

D. 4R lymph node; biopsy:

- Two lymph nodes, no tumor (0/2).

E. Right parietal and visceral pleura, diaphragm and pericardium:
- Malignant biphasic mesothelioma; see comment.
- See parameters.

Thoracic Mesothelioma Pathologic Parameters
Pleura Resection

MACROSCOPIC

Specimen Type: Pleural resection

Tumor Site: Right pleura, pericardium, and diaphragm

Tumor Conﬁguration and Size: Diffuse, maximum thickness: 3.5 cm

MICROSCOPIC

Histologic Type: Biphasic mesothelioma (80% epithelioid, 20% sarcomatoid)
Tumor Extension:

Conﬂuent Visceral pleural tumor (including ﬁssure)

Into but not through diaphragm

Into and through the pericardium

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion: Absent

Margins: Cannot be assessed

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT4, N0

Primary Tumor (pT)

pT4: Tumor (locally advanced technically unresectable) involves any of the
ipsilateral pleural surfaces, with at least 10f the following: diffuse or
multifocal invasion of soft tissues of the chest wall, any involvement of rib,
invasion through the diaphragm to the peritoneum, invasion of any mediastinal
organ(s), direct extension to the contralateral pleura, invasion into the spine,
extension to the internal surface of the pericardium, pericardial effusion with
positive cytology, invasion of the myocardium.

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number examined: 8

Number involved: 0

Comment

Irnmunohistochemical staining with CAM5.2 was positive in both epithelioid and
sarcomatoid mesothelioma. Of note, expansile nodules composed of sarcomatoid
mesothelioma are seen at the diaphragm with epithelioid and spindle cells
extending into the muscle. In the invasive ares, only the epithelioid cells

stain positively for CAM5.2, whereas the spindled cells are negative. This shows
epithelioid mesothelioma extension into the diaphragm, but spindled cell'within
the diaphragm may reﬂect desmoplastic stroma. In addition, CD34 stain shows no

venous or lymphatic invasion. All controls are appropriate. Dr. [] has
reviewed the case and concurs.

XXX
[] M.D.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, D, MD

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD.

Clinical History:

The patient is a «year-old male with mesothelioma undergoing right
thoracotomy, pleurectomy, and decortication.

Specimens Received:

A: #1 l

B: Level 7

C: #8

D: 4R

E: Right parietal Visceral pleura diaphragm and pericardium

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient‘s
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, “ 1. #11". Received fresh
and placed in formalin are 2 gray-black nodular, rubbery ﬁbrofatty tissue
fragments measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm and 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm. Each nodule is
bisected. A thin section of tissue is detached from the larger nodule during
bisection. The smaller nodule is submitted entirely in A1, and the larger nodule
along with the detached fragment is submitted in A2.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "2. Level 7”. Received
fresh and placed in formalin are 3 grey-black nodular, rubbery ﬁbrofatty tissue
fragments measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm, 1.9 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm, and 1.9 x 1.1 x 0.8
cm. Each nodule is bisected and submitted entirely in B1-B3.

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "3. #8". Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a grey-black nodular, rubbery ﬁbrofatty tissue

fragment measuring 1.8 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted
entirely in C1.

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4. 4R". Received fresh

and placed in formalin are 2 brown-tan rubbery tissue fragments measuring 1.1 x
0.5 x 0.4 cm and 1.5 x 1 x 0.3 cm as well as a gray-black lobulated, rubbery
ﬁbrofatty tissue fragment measuring 3.1 x 2.3 x 0.3 cm. The 2 brown-tan
fragments are submitted entirely in D1. The gray-black larger tissue fragment is
divided and submitted entirely in D2—D3.

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "5. Right parietal

visceral pleura, diaphragm + pericardium black stitch marks pericardium, white
stitch marks diaphragm". Received fresh is a 575 gm, 600 ml pleurectomy specimen
measuring 31 x 16 x 3 cm. There is an attached 6.5 x 2.5 cm surface of smooth,
pink-tan pericardium, which is 0.2 cm thick. There is a 13 x 11 cm portion of
attached red-brown, ragged diaphragm, which is 0.8 cm thick. The specimen is
inked as follows: pericardial surface - blue, abdominal surface of diaphragm -
black. The specimen is sectioned to reveal white, ﬁrm, lobulated tumor present
throughout the visceral pleura. Greater than 90% of the pleura is involved by
tumor. The visceral and parietal pleura are thickened (up to 0.5 cm) and fused.

The tumor invades the diaphragm up to a depth of 0.8 cm, which comes to <0.1 cm
to the inked margin. The abdominal surface of the diaphragm is free of tumor.

The greatest tumor dimension is 3.5 cm. Gross photographs are taken.

Representative sections are taken as follow:
El-E2: Pericardium

E3-E9: Diaphragm

E10-E15: Pleura and chest wall

xxx
D MD

 

