TCGA—A3—3380 Page 1 0f?

  

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology COPY TO:
COPY TO:

Pro-Op Diagnosis
Renal mass
Post—Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated

Gross Description:
Received in a single container labeled_ assert kidney is
a previously partially sectioned left nephrectomy specimen surrounded

b a moderate amount of partially stripped perinephric adipose tissue.
The specimen as received weighs 570 grams and on reconstruction
measures approximately 19.4 x 12.9 x 5.8 ch The margin of resection
include 2.5 cm of grossly patent renal artery, 1.0 cm grossly patent
renal vein and 9.0 cm of grossly patent ureter. The capsule strips
with ease to reveal an organ measuring on reconstruction 12.4 x 7.5 x ' g
5.0 cm. This has a lobular homogeneous red brown outer surface.
Noted on the posterior aspect in the mid region of the specimen is a
3.0 x 3.0 x~2.8 on well circumscribed tan yellow nodular lesion with
a slightly bulging focally hemorrhagic centrally hyalinized fleshy
tan yellow cut surface. This appears to be thinly encapsulated.
This extends beyond the plane of the.cortical parenchyma but appears
grossly intact with a surrounding thin layer of attenuated cortical
parenchyma. The lesion appears to slightly compress the surrounding
parenchyma but does not grossly appear to extend beyond the lesional
capsule into this parenchyma. The remaining parenchyma shows a
cortex measuring up to 0.9 cm which is homogeneous and red brown.
Noted in the cortex on the antral lateral aSpect in the mid region of
the specimen Q§1ﬁg - ya do structure with a slight_ly
trabeculated inner gr 1n1ng.Within the cystic ‘
structure is amiﬁﬁ inular_sp1ky appearing brown
black calculus. The cortical medullary junction is poorly defined
The medulla is tan brown with sharp papillae. The calices and pelvis
are lined by smooth tan white mucosa that extends into the ureter.
Also received in the same container are Emoaﬁissu cassettes each
Representative sections are submitted labeled as
follows: A — vascular and ureteral margins; B— E — representative
lesion and surrounding tissue; F- G — representative cystic structure;
H — random uninvolved parenchyma
NOTE: 'D—examined this case in the fresh state for tumor
harvesting. The tumor, at the time, was noted in the periphery of
the kidney and was clearly bulging above the plane of the kidney
surface, however, grbss extension into perinephric tissue was not
appreciated.

 

  
    
 

 

  

 

 

 

Microscopic Description:

See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Left nephrectomy:
Carcinoma.

Histologic typez‘ﬁr le'

 
  
 

Tumor site: Posterior aspect in mid region.

Tumor size: 8. EXLQE ism;
Macroscopic extent of tumor..
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman Grade 2/4.
Lymphovascular space invasion: No
Transcapsular invasion: No
Renal vein invasion: No
Vena caval invasion: Not resected
Adrenal gland: Not resected
Surgical margin status:

Soft tissue margins: Negative

Ureteral margin: Negative

Vascular margin: Negative
Lymph node status:

Total number of lymph nodes examined:
Frozen section correlation statement:
Other significant findings: None.

Stage: pTl

CPT: 88309

Comments

This test has been finalized at the

Electronically Signed by: #

 

 
 
 

.0 h.
None

 

Page 2 of2

 

 

