 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

COPY T01 *

Pre-Op Diagnosis

Colon cancer

Post—Op Diagnosis

Same as above

Clinicai History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Container labeled “*— right colon” is a 17.5 cm
previousiy Opened portion of large bowel including cecum. as weli as
6.6 cm of attached unopened terminai ileum. The specimen is covered
by a moderate amount of pericolic. epiploic and omental adipose
tissue. An 8.6 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm vermiform appendix is identified.

The visible serosa is shaggy and gray pink. The wait is up to 0.5 cm
edematous and ﬁbrotic. The lumen is lined by gray-tan mucosa with
preservation of intestinal folds. Noted within the cecal pouch at a
point 1.2 cm from the ileocecai valve there is a 3.5 x 3.5 cm ﬁnely
granular centrally ulcerated plaque-like gray pink lesion with

raised rotted borders. On sectioning. this has a gritty gray—tan
tibrotic cut surface measuring up to 1.4 cm. This grossly appears to
extend through the wall and into the surrounding adipose tissue
grossly to within 0.1 cm of the nearest outer surface margin. This
lesion grossly impinges on and markedly constricts the appendiceal
orifice. The appendiceal oriﬁce is markedly constricted to 0.6 cm

in diameter as opposed to 1.6 cm in diameter in the central portion
of the appendix. The appendix has an intact gray tan fibrotio wall
with smooth inner lining containing transparent viscid mucus. No
gross lesion is noted within the appendix proper. On sectioning.
the surrounding adipose tissue reveais several poorly deﬁned gray
tan to yellow nodules up to 2.2 cm. On sectioning the iargest
portion appears to be a mat of nodules having focally necrotic gray
tan cut surfaces. Severai of these nodules appear to be poorly
defined and are associated with vascular structures. Also received

 

' tainer are three tissue cassettes each labeled
Representative sections are submitted labeled as
o ows: - proximal margin; B — distal margin with small fragment

of small intestine; C-E — representative lesion; F-G -

representative lesion to appendiceal oriﬁce; H — random uninvolved
bowel; l-J — representative appendix; K - largest pericolic nodule
mat bisected; L-M - whole smailer pericolic nodules; N-R —
representative pericolic fat.

Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled —are examined. See diagnosis.

Fina: Diagnosis
Distal ileum, appendix and right colon, segment:
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous component (see
comment)
Location of tumor: 1.2 cm from the lleocecal valve
Size: 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.4 cm in greatest dimensions
Grade: Moderately differentiated
Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes
Perforation of visceral peritoneum: Yes (see comment)
Presence of mesenteric deposits: No
Depth of invasion: Carcinoma extends through muscularis propria
into subserosal adipose tissue with microscopic perforation. (see
comment)
Surgical margin status:
Proximal margin: No carcinoma identified
Distal margin: No carcinoma identified
Radial deep margin: Carcinoma extends to serosal surface with
perforation of visceral peritoneum (see comment).
Lymph node status:
Total number of lymph nodes examined: 20
Total number of lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma: 17
(17/20) PAS 9
Other:
Appendix: Mucocele. PAS 3 SPC-A
Stage:
pT4a N2b (see comment)

CPT: 88309

Comments

The carcinoma extends up to the serosal surface and in slide F is
associated with an area of desmoplasia-granulation tissue and
mesothelial hyperplasia associated with the carcinoma consistent
with an area of perforation. Therefore, this is staged as a pT4a
lesion. Multiple lymph nodes are present within the mesentery. Some
foci consist predominantly of adenocarcinoma with only a email
amount of residual iymphoid tissue present and these are counted as
lymph nodes totally replaced by tumor. Seventeen of 20 lymph nodes
are positive for metastatic carcinoma. In addition, multiple foci of
lymphovascular space invasion are present within the mesentery. The
carcinoma is an adenocarcinoma with focal muclnous component. The
mucinous component is less than 50% of the tumor and, therefore,
this does not qualify as a mucinouslcolloid adenocarcinoma. Clinical
correlation and followup is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist. these slides have

 

 

been additionally reviewed by Dr.‘ who concurs with the
diagnosis.

 

 

 

 

