 

WID: BBBBF31C- 53(19- 473A- BBW- EBQGFCIIZOCE
TICGA- -XU-A922- 91A- PR

IIIIIII IIIIIIIIWIIHMHII IIIIIIIIIllllllllllllaliiltea'
"mm

HIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIII lllll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

Patient Name.

MRN: . , Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:M Location:
Facility: JIZldD-Ci :35

rd in : h
0 er gm JWLMWW M06 36%]:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report 5‘12“ EM 0’52 q
950 Avail/‘7’

SPECIMEINS) RECEIVED

1. Lymph—Node: LEFT PHRENIC

2. Thymus: THYMOMA, PERICARDIUM, WEDGE RESECTION LUL, SHORT SILK
POSTERIOR WALL OF PERICARDIUM, LONG SILK LEFT UPPER POLE THYM'US

DIAGNOSIS
1. Lymph node (left phrenic)
— Negative for malignancy

2. Resection (thymus, pericardium, portion of left upper lobe of lung):
a) Invasive thymic carcinoma (WHO type C) (see Comment), with
i) Greatest dimension = 8.0 cm
ii) Invasion of lung (left upper lobe)
iii) Invasion of pericardium not identified
iv) Lung and pericardial margins of resection negative for tumor

v) Tumor extends to within 0.1 cm of soft tissue resection
margin (superior pole)
b) Residual thymic tissue with follicular hyperplasia and
involutional changes
0) Lung with marked anthracosis

COMMENT

2. Sections show a tumor composed of nests and sheets of cells with oval
to spindled nuclei with mild to moderate atypia, and moderate amount of
pale cytoplasm, Separated by thick fibrous bands. The cells form
prominent glandular and cyst—like structures. Numerous mitoses are
identified. Focal necrosis and areas of hemorrhage are noted. The tumor
is almost completely encapsulated and is adherent to, but not invasive of
the pericardium. However, the tumor invades the adjacent lung. The
tumor also appears focally to invade the capsule and extends to within
0.1 cm of a soft tissue margin of resection at the superior pole. The
tumor cells stain positive for low molecular weight keratin, CK5/6, and

Status: complete Page: 1 of 3

Laboratory Medicine Program
Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: i ' Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:M Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

p63, focally positive for CK20, CD5, and CD56, and negative for smooth
muscle actin, calponin, CD117, chromogranin, synaptophysin, CK7, and
TTF—l.

The morphology and immunohistochemical profile are consistent with a
stage III malignant thymic neoplasm (invading lung). but the findings do
not fit neatly into a single WHO category. Intradepartmental review of
the case by several pathologists yielded a range of opinions, from
invasive thymoma of various types, to thymic carcinoma. Histologically,
the presence of spindled morphology could be consistent with a type A
(medullary, or spindle cell type) thymoma, in which prominent glandular
and cystic structures may be seen; however, the extent of invasion and
high mitotic activity would be unusual fOr a type A thymoma. Adenoid
cystic carcinoma was also a diagnostic consideration based on morphology;
however, the lack of calponin, actin, and CD117 staining do not support
this diagnosis.

Overall, a diagnosis of invasive thymic carcinoma (WHO type C) is favored
in this case, given the high mitotic activity, extent of invasion, and
presence of focal necrosis. The presence of focal CD5 staining further
supports a diagnosis of thymic carcinoma.

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

CLINICAL HISTORY
THYMOMA

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘ 5 name and as "left
phrenic lymph node", contains a lymph node measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x o 3 cm.
received in 10% buffered formalin.

1A - submitted in toto.

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as
"thymoma, pericardium, wedge resection left upper lobe, short silk
posterior wall of pericardium, long silk left upper pole thymus", it
contains a thymus specimen with a wedge of lung and a portion of
pericardium received in 10% buffered formalin. The entire specimen
measures 13.0 cm SI x 7.0 cm ML x 5.5 cm AP The entire specimen weighs

Status: complete Page: 2 of 3

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: - ' ' Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:M Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

155 grams. The specimen margins are painted with silver nitrate. The
portion of pericardium measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.2 cm. This area is
overcoated with green dye. The wedge of lung measures 7.5 cm SI x 2.3 cm
ML x 1.3 cm AP. The thymus itself measures 12.5 cm SI x 4.5 cm ML x 4.0
cm AP. On sectioning, there is a solid, tan tumor located on the mid
aspect of the thymus. It appears to occupy 70% of the thymus. This tumor
measures 8.0 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm. 0n sectioning, it is tan in color with a
whorl—like appearance. There is a portion of tumor that appears to be
cystic, hemorrhagic and necrotic measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. The rest
of the apparently normal thymic tissue is tan in color and appears to be
solid. Four pieces of tumor and a piece of thymic tissue are taken for
tissue banking.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

2A-21 — deep area of pericardium with tumor serially sectioned and
submitted in toto.

2J — lung wedge resection margin after the stapled resection margin is
removed -

2K-2N - tumor in relation to lung parenchyma

20, 2P - tumor taken at the superior pole

29, 2R - apparently normal thymic tissue

ZS — cystic aspect of the tumor.

 

Status: complete Page: 3 of

3

 

