UUID: 28F25F49- 4066- 4593- 957D- -BDAEF04R657AE

"'“"“""llllll'lllllllllllllllllllI'lllllll‘l‘“ e” 093333133?
lllll illllillillillmllllllllllllIllllll|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll year old black female
Collected date:
Diagnosis

Ovary and Fallopian tube, left, excision:

- Papillary serous adenocarcinoma.

- Ovarian capsule is intact.

- The size of tumor is 9.5 cm in maximum dimension.
- Fallopian tube is not identified.

Ovary and Fallopian tube, right, excision:

- Papillary serous adenocarcinoma.

- Ovarian capsule is intact.

- The size of tumor is 19.0 cm in maximum dimension.
- Fallopian tube is not identified.

Omentum, excision:
- No evidence of malignancy.
- See comment.

Pathologist Comment

Both ovaries show signiﬁcant involvement by tumor resulting in large bilateral tumor masses. I favor
synchronnous tumors because capsules seems to be intact. However metastatic tumor cannot be ruled

out. LC’CD C.)- 5 ‘

Synoptic Report (It) 95151434 N (am; 14:4“th D; ”We?

SPECIME - ..
i htova "$ovd“<h2 rem. Macao) tetra) .3

Left ovary . (5‘11 @ mad/u, é Staci

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube . L
Omentum 94 \>\ liq/I I
PROCEDURE:
Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
Omentectomy
LYMPH NODE SAMPLING: Not performed
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY:
Capsule Intact
Left ovary
Capsule intact
PRIMARY TUMOR SITE: Bilateral ovarian involvement
OVARIAN SURFACE INVOLVEMENT: Uncertain/cannot be determined
TUMOR SIZE:
Right Ovary - Greatest dimension: 19.0 cm
Left Ovary - Greatest dimension: 9.5 cm
HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Serous, carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE: High grade
EXTENT OF INVOLVEMENT OF OTHER TlSSUES/ORGANS:
Right ovary: Involved
Left ovary: Involved
Right fallopian tube: Not applicable
Left fallopian tube: Not applicable
Omentum: Not involved

Page 2 of 2

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) [FIGO]:

pT1b [lB]: Tumor limited to both ovaries; capsule intact, no tumor on ovarian surface. No
malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):

pNX: Cannot be assessed

Clinical Information
The patient is a year old female with a history of pelvic pain and pelvic mass.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
AFS1: Left tube and ovary. excision:
— Positive for carcinoma.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in three containers labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.

The first container is labeled, "left tube and ovary". Received is a frozen section cassettes and ovary
according to the frozen section paperwork it is a 4.0 x 3.5 papillary mass. This mass appears to have
been within a cyst that measures approximately 8.0 cm. The entire specimen measures 9.5 x 8.5 x 2.5
cm. Attached to the papillary lesion, the section of firm white tissue that measures 8.0 x 5.0 cm.

The second container is labeled, "right tube and ovary". Received is the ovary and possible fallopian tube
that measures 5.0 x 0.5 cm. The ovary has been opened intraoperatively and appears cystic. The ovary
measures 14.5 x 7.5 x 2.5 cm. Within the open cyst, the papillary lesion that measures 3.0 x 2.5 cm. The
outside will be inked. The cystic region measures 7.5 x 7.0 cm. Further examination of the cyst reveals
there are multiple papillary regions. There is an additional section that measures 4.5 x 1.0 cm. There is a
separate cystic area that measures 4.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. The cyst contains brown fluid as well as what
appears to be necrotic material.

The third container is labeled. "omentum". Received is a section of omentum that measures 25.0 x 8.0 x

2.0 cm. Section through the omentum reveals multiple small sections with hemorrhage and firm tissue.
Representative sections will be submitted.

Block Summary

A1 -A2- Frozen sections.

A3-A5- Full thickness section through papillary lesion and outside of ovary.
A6- Additional section through papillary lesion.

A7-A8- Representative sections through firm white tissue.

AQ- Section through possibly hemorrhagic/necrotic tissue and cyst wall.
A10- Additional cystic tissue.

81- Fallopian tube.

BZ-B4- Representative sections through papillary lesion.

BS-BS- Additional sections through separate papillary lesion.

87- Representative sections through second cyst.

88-89- Representative sections through ovary.

310- Section through necrotic tissue.

C‘l-CS- Representative sections of omentum.

Microscopic Description

Bilateral ovaries show malignant tumor with papillary architecture and high grade cytologic atypia
consistent with papillary serous adenocarcinoma. Bilateral ovaries are involved by tumor. Fallopian tubes
are not histologically identified. Omentum is free of malignancy.

”(9“in

 

Reviewer

