 

 

UUID:A7F79765-5638-47M-87BO-40E2D802E535
TCGA-BC-AlON-alA-

PR Redacted

SURGICAL mmorocy Ill llllllllIlllllllllIlllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lHMlllllHllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂll|lllllll
Case Number , lH llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Collection Date : / C b _ a - 5
Diagnosis: ‘ if K ) ,
A: Peritoneum, biopsy 4mmt ‘ful‘m I No)
- Fibroelastic proliferation consistent with adhesion, focal fat necrosis. _ ind/3
- No malignancy is identiﬁed. The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed. .7 if“ ,Mw 09:). a
B: Gerota's fascia, biopsy ”’7”

- No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

C: Gerota's fascia #2, biopsy
- Poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with hepatpcellular carcinonja extending to cauterized,

uninked tissue edge. The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

D: Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy

- Poorly differentiated, Jhilucarcinomd measuring 11.6 cm in greatest diameter and extending
through the superior capsule.

- Lymphovascular space invasion is identiﬁed.

- Extensive geographic necrosis is seen.

- Adjacent uninvolved hepatic parenchyma with chronic hepatitis, stage 3, grade 2.

- Immunohistochemical stains for cytokeratin 20 with cytoplasmic positivity identiﬁed; no staining is seen
with cytokeratin 7 and EMA.

 

E: Omentum, omentectomy
- No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

F: Gerota's fascia #3, biopsy
- No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

G: "Additional Gerota's fascia", removal
- Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with extensive necrosis.

H: Additional posterior margin, removal
~Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with extensive necrosis.

Comment:
Dr. has reviewed the slides and agrees.

A frozen section was requested.

FSAl: Peritoneum, biopsy
- Benign ﬁbroelastic proliferation, consistent with adhesions, focal fat necrosis
- No malignant neoplasm identiﬁed

FSB l: Gerota's fascia, biopsy
- Fibrous connective tissue with focal chronic inﬂammation
- Scant liver, benign appearing, no neoplasm identiﬁed

F SCI: Gerota's fascia #2, biopsy
— Poorly differentiated carcinoma, extending to uninked tissue edge
F SE1: Omentum, biopsy

 
  
 

Cmula
Diagnosi: Discrepancy
‘ .\ ___
Primary Tumor Sue Discrepancy
HIPAA Di'crenlnry
_ .“ _
Pnul Mallgnancy History
Dual/Wnrhronnus Primer

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

  

 

 

 

 

. M-..“ .W 2. v“..~wm~-4mmwme~zzwwmw

~ No carcinoma identified

FSF l: Gerota's fascia #3, biopsy
— No carcinoma identiﬁed

Clinical History:
The patient underwent a previous ﬁne needle aspiration of a liver mass involving right lobe that was
signiﬁcant for poorly differentiated carcinoma. The patient currently undergoes right lobe hepatectomy.

Gross Description:
Eight appropriately labeled containers are received.

Container A holds a 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.4 cm red/tan irregularly shaped soft tissue fragment which has previously
been entirely submitted as F SAl and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSAI.

Container B holds a 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm red/tan irregularly shaped soft tissue fragment which has previously
been entirely submitted as F SB] and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSB 1.

Container C holds a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm irregularly shaped red/tan soft tissue fragment which has previously
been entirely submitted as FSCl and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSC 1.

Container D holds an 1100 gram, 17.0 x 14.5 x 9.0 cm partial hepatectomy specimen. The capsule is
gray/tan and diffusely nodular. On the superior aspect of the specimen there is a 6.5 x 4.5 cm irregularly
shaped capsular tear. On the inferior aspect of the specimen there is a 3.5 x 3.5 cm irregularly shaped
capsular tear. The cut surface is diffusely green/gray and nodular. Also present is a 11.6 x 10.3 x 8.9

cm poorly circumscribed, variegated mass with geographic necrosis and hemorrhage. This mass comes to
within 2.2 cm from the previously inked black surgical margin. The tumor abuts the superﬁcial capsular
margin and extends through the inferior capsular margin.

D1 - superior capsular tear with tumor

D2 - superior capsule with tumor

D3-D7 - representative sections of tumor

D8,D9 - representative sections of uninvolved liver

Container E holds a 7.5 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm red/tan omentum with a 3.5 x 3.0 cm area ofred, brown
(Yhemorrhage/necrosis). A portion has been sampled and submitted F SE1. This is resubmitted for
permanent sections are FSEl and representative sections are submitted as El-E3.

Container F holds a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm irregularly shaped red/tan soft tissue fragment which has previously
been entirely submitted as F881 and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSFl.

Container G is additionally labeled "additional Gerota's fascia." It holds a 4.4 x 3.6 x 1.2 cm irregularly
shaped red/tan ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and on cross section has a
variegated ﬁbrofatty appearance. Representative sections are submitted in blocks G1-G4.

Container H is additionally labeled "additional posterior margin." It holds a 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm red/tan
irregularly shaped ﬁbrofatty soft tissue fragment. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted
in block H1-H2.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed.

Signature:
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above
diagnosis(es).

