  

CGA —44 — 2555

 

SPECIMEN
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F

G

CLINICAL NOTES
PREnOP DIAGNOSIS: Lung lesion

Posterior segment right
Node level 10

Level 11

Right upper lobe

2R fat pad

. 4R node

. Level 7

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

A — Adenoearcinoma—

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "posterior
segment right" and consists of a peripheral wedge
resection
of lung measuring 9.5 x 3 x 2.3 cm. There is a staple line which
runs longitudinally. 0n the opposite surface there is a stitch
denoting the location of a lesion. The total surface is Smooth and
glistening. On sectioning the area of the stitch, there is a
subpleural ill defined area of induration measuring 1.5 x l x 1 cm.
A touch preparation and frozen section are performed. Samples of
this nodule as well as samples of normal lung tissue are taken for
tissue procurement. The staple line is removed. The margin is
painted black. The remaining parenohyma is soft pink and spongy.
Additional sections are submitted in six blocks, following
fixation.

8. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
”node level 10” is a 0.5 cm blackwred irregular soft
tissue
fragment which is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l. mszkm
C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"level 11" are two black red irregular soft tissue

.CGA -44—2655

 

SPECIMEN

A.
B.
C.
D,
E.
F.
G.

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung lesion

Posterior segment right
Node level 10

Level 11

Right upper lobe

2R fat pad

4R node

Level 7

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

A - Adenocarcinoma—

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "posterior
segment right“ and consists of a peripheral wedge
resection
of lung measuring 9.5 x 3 x 2.3 cm. There is a staple line which
runs longitudinally. On the opposite surface there is a stitch
denoting the location of a lesion. The total surface is smooth and
glistening. On sectioning the area of the stitch, there is a
subpleural ill defined area of induration measuring 1.5 x l x 1 cm.
A touch preparation and frozen section are performed. Samples of
this nodule as well as samples of normal lung tissue are taken for
tissue procurement. The staple line is removed. The margin is
painted black. The remaining parenchyma is soft pink and spongy.
Additional sections are submitted in six blocks, following

fixatioil
B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"node level 10” is a 0.5 cm black—red irregular soft
tiesue
fragment which is entirely submitted in one cassette. Ashl.
C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"level ll" are two black red irregular soft tissue

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

fragments which are 0.4 cm and 0.2 cm in greatest dimension.
Specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. ASHl. -

D. Received fresh subsequently fixed and inflated with

formalin labeled "right upper lobe" is an 11.5 x 9.8 x 5.3
cm portion of lung which shows two staple lines measuring 11.5 and
8.5 cm. Both staple lines are located near the hilar surface. The
hilum of the specimen shows few possible lymph nodes presant.
Multiple staples are grossly identified. The staples are removed
and staple lines are inked blue. The pleura of the specimen is
violaceous smooth glistening and shows no umbilication or puckering
present. The cut surface of the specimen is red-brown and spongy.
N0 discrete gross lesions are identified or are palpated.
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows:
Block 1 ~ possible hilar nodes; block 2 ~ bronchial and vascular
margins; block 3—8 — representative sections of the specimen. RS—8.

E. Received in formalin labeled "2R fat pad" are two

yellow black irregular soft tissue fragments which average
2.0 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. The specimens are entirely submitted in one
caseette. AS—l.

F. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"4R node" is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm pink-red irregular
rubbery tissue fragment which is bisected and entirely submitted in
one cassette. AS—l.

G. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 7" is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm black irregular soft
rubbery tissue fragment which is bisected and entirely submitted in

one cassette. AS—l. -
--

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A. This wedge resection contains a subpleural tumor mass.

The touch preparation disoloses moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma. Histologic sections disclose and infiltrating
moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with a peripheral
bronchoalveolar type growth pattern. The tumor is strongly positive
for TTFl, supporting a lung primary. The tumor measures 1.5 cm in
gross maximum dimension. Please see the template below.

Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcindma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): The tumor measures 1.5 cm, -

Margins of resection: Negative

Direct extension of tumor: Negative

Venous (large vessel} invasion; Negative

Arterial (large vessel} invasion: Negative

Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative

Regional lymph nodes (pN): As per part B through G, at least 11
lymph nodes are present, all negative for metastatic disease, pNO

 

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed

Other findings: Mild emphysematous change is noted.
BaC. Microscopic examination performed.

D. This right upper lobe is status post prior wedge

resection. The remaining lobe is negative for tumor.
Bronchial and vascular margins of resection are negative for tumor.
A single subpleural focus of nonspecific scarring (block #7) is
noted, measuring 2 cm in maximum dimension. The lung parenchyma
discloses mild to moderate emphysematous change. Five hilar lymph
nodes are found with anthracosis, all negative for metastatic
disease.

E—G. Microscopic examination performed.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.)

14, 65, 5, 4X3, 3x3, 20

DIAGNOSIS

A. Posterior segment of right lung, wedge resection ~- Peripheral

portion of lung with infiltrating moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma of lung. The pleura and margin of resection are
negative for tumor. No vascular invasion is found.

B. Level 10 lymph node, biopsy -~ Single lymph node with

anthracosis, negative for metastatic disease, 0/1.

C. Level 11 lymph node, biopsy ~— Crushed fibrous and lymphoid

tissue negative for tumor.

D. Right upper lobe, right upper lobectomy ~~ Right upper lobe,
status post prior wedge resection, negative for residual tumor. All
five regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disease,

0/5.
Nonspecific focus of subpleural scar present and emphysematous
change is noted.

E. 2R fat pad, excision —~ Single lymph node negative for metastatic
disease, 0/1.

F. 4R node, dissection —~ Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic
disease, 0/2.

G. Level 7 lymph nodes, dissection —— Two lymph nodes negative for

metastatic disease, 0/2.

 

