This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of regarding
patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

* Final Report * ‘ . mo- 3

D . . .-, ~ dad—Hos
ocument Type. Anat Path Reports » WWW/1) I

Document Date: _ , 8 51105

Document Status: Auth (Verified) '» i»- M .; ‘_ .

Document Title: Histoloav - , W0)

Performed By: §Jl ' 25525.1.

Verified By: ,

Encounter info: _ W D [/17//(7(

* Final Report *

”“m’fééiiaéglﬂiﬁifé’ﬁ'féf”mmﬁi‘el‘liiiialﬁlted

(Verified)

III III
llllillllllllllllllll IllllllllllllllilllllllllllIllllllillll
Illl||||||||||IlllllllllilllllllllllilllllllIllilllllillll
Patient Name: Acc #: _
MRN: DOB: pAge;
Location: Gender: Collected:
Client: Received:
Submitting Reported:
Phys:

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Final Pathologlc Diagnosis

A. PANCREAS AND SPLEEN, DISTAL PANCREATECTOMY AND SPLENECTOMY, (A1 FS):
- INVASIVE DUCTAL ADENOCARCINOMA. PANCREATOBILIARY TYPE. POORLY DIFFERENTIATED.
- ESTIMATED TUMOR SIZE: 2.0 X 2.0 CM.
- PANCREATIC NECK MARGIN IS NEGATIVE.
- METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN ONE OF NINE LYMPH NODES, 1I9.
(0.2 CM FOCUS/NO EXTRANODAL EXTENSION).
- VASCULAR SPACE INVASION PRESENT.
- PERINEURAL INVASION PRESENT.
- SPLEEN WITHOUT DIAGNOSTIC ABNORMALITY.
- SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT.

Electronicallv Sianed by 7 ., Pathologist

Printed by:

Page 1 of4
Printed on:

(Continued)

This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of
patient information. Any unauthorized use, disclosure, or reproduction of this infomtation is strictly prohibited.

" Final Report *

regarding

Assisted by:

Synoptic Worksheet

A. Distal pancreas, spleen (test for frozen margin on the staple line):

Specimen: Tail of pancreas
Spleen
Procedure: Other: distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy
Tumor Site: Pancreatic tail
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm
Additional dimension: 2.0 cm
Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade: GS: Poorly differentiated
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor is conﬁned to pancreas
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 10 mm ..
Mag 5 uninvolved by carcinoma in situ ‘

Treatment Effect: No prior treatment

Lymph-Vascular'lnvasibn: indeterminate

Perineural invasion: Present

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor limited to the pancreas, more than 2 cm in greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1: Regional lymph node metastasis

Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of lymph nodes involved: 9
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: None identiﬁed

 

Clinical Histog

Distal pancreatectomy and spleneciomy.

Sgeclmen(s) Received

A: Distal pancreas. spleen (test for frozen margin on the staple line)

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh. labeled with the patient's name, medical record number and “distal pancreas. spleen: test frozen

margin on the staple line" and consists of a 482.5 grams distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy Specimen including pancreas
(14.5 x 6.0 x 2.6 cm) and spleen (17.0 x 12.0 x 5.2 cm).

The anterior aspect of the pancreas is unremarkable. The posterior aspect of the pancreas has two white, plaque-like
discolorations (1.6 x 1.5 cm and 2.0 x 2.0 cm). The smaller discolored area is located 5.9 cm from the neck edge. The cut
surface of the pancreas has a ﬁrm. white and focally hemorrhagic mass, 80 cm (proximal to distal) by 2.5 cm (anterior to
posterior) by 2.4 cm (width). The mass is located 10 cm from the neck edge and occludes the pancreatic duct in this area. The

Printed by: Page 2 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of regarding
patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure. or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

* Final Report *

mass abuts both the anterior and posterior aspects and is continuous truth the aforementioned plaque-like discoloration.

The remaining cut surface of the pancreas is tabulated and unremarkable.

The splenic capsule is intact and unremarkable. The cut surface of the spleen is unremarkable and uninvolved by mass. The
splenic artery is uninvolved. yet adjacent to the mass.

The neck margin is submitted for frozen section. Representative sections are submitted as stated below. Photographs are
taken. Dictated by

iNK CODE:

Blue —- anterior pancreas
Black ——posterior pancreas
Orange — neck edge

Green — pancreatic duct lining

CASSETTE SUMMARY:

A1 FS —- pancreatic neck margin

A2 — pancreatic neck edge. en face

A3 ~ most proximal edge of mass with pancreatic duct

A4 — mass with area of focal hemorrhage in closest relationship to anterior surface, with splenic artery

A5 - representative sections of pancreas between white component of mass and plaque-like discoloration, with adjacent normal
pancreas

A6 — mass at focal discoloration #1

A7 — mass at focal discoloration #2 (most distal edge of mass)
A8 — representative spleen

A9 - hiiar adipose tissue

A10 — ﬁve peripancreatic lymph nodes, intact

A11- representative omentum

lntraogerative Consult Diagnosis
A1FS: DlSTAL PANCREAS. SPLEEN (FROZEN SECTION): PANCREATlC NECK MARGIN. NEGATIVE FOR INVASIVE
CARCINOMA.

Frozen section results were communicated to the surgical team and were repeated back by

at , out at

Pathologist:

Printed by: . Page 3 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding confidentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures at

:garding
patient information Any unauthorized use, disclosure. or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.
Anat Path Reports
* Final Report *
Printed by: ' Page 4 of 4
Printed on:

(End of Report)

 

