 

ethology Report

  
  

r I. -.r—: ve-r..w.--:n—.v.n;wx_u::9-.-.-_\-i.-:=-.<..::n :vno'r.~'=.'(nr::\:r—, .‘z - was. ‘5’:_“.‘7‘-C\"T7 m. m r era w cm _-. ‘.

Accession Number: w Report Status: Amend/A
Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type:
Procedure Date:
ordering Provide

CASE: u...
PATIENT: a!“

**i******* ***********

ction

  
  
 

 

.mm—cz-4ae4

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

SPECIMEN LABELEDX‘ZEFT KIDNEY":
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, {5 cm), "glear cell type, Fuhrman grade III/IV.
Tumor invades renal vein.
Ureter, renal artery, and renal vein margins are negative for tumor.
Separate fibrotic nodule (6 cm) consistent with prior cryoablation; no
residual viable tumor identified.
Adrenal gland with no significant pathologic change.
The non—neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the
findings will be reported in an addendum.

CLINICAL DATA:
History- RCC S/P cryo x2. w'
Operation: Left radical nephrectomyf
Clinical Diagnosis: L renal tumor.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
All) left kidney (s.s.), adrenal.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patients name, unit number,

and "#1 — left kidney“, and consists of an 873.5 gram radical nephrectomy
specimen, measuring 23.5 x 11.5 x 7 cm in totals There is a kidney measuring
10.5 x 7.2 x 5 cm, an adrenal gland measuring 3.5 x 2x 1.2 cm, a ureter
measuring 8 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter, a renal artery measuring 0.8 cm
in length x 0.6 cm in diameter, and a bifurcating renal vein measuring 4-5 cm
in length, and ranging from 0.4—1.4 cm in diameter. There are grOssly two
distinct masses in the renal parenchyma (T1 and T2). Mass T1 is a yellow/red,
ill—defined hemorrhagic mass measuring 5 x 3.5 x 3 cm in the lower pole. T1
extends beyond the kidney to within less than 0.2 cm of Gerota‘s fascia (inked
black). Tl also invades into the renal vein. The T1 tumor is found in both
segments of the vein bifurcation, completely blocking one branch. There is
also a large cortical cyst adjacent to mass T1 that measures 7 x 5.2 x 1 cm.
The cyst is lined by pink, smooth tissue with multiple small white nodules.
The mase T1 is located 9 cm from the ureter margin, 2 cm from the vein margin,
4 cm from the artery margin. Mass T2 has a pale tan necrotic and fibrotic
component (4.9 x 4.5 x 3.5 cm) and a yellow component (6 x 4.2 x 2 cm). T2 is
located in the upper pole and extends beyond the renal parenchyma. Mass T2 is
1.5 cm from the renal artery and vein margins, 8 cm from the ureter margin, and
4.2 cm from the Gerota's fascia. There is one simple renal cyst measuring 2 cm
in diameter in the surface of the upper pole. No lymph nodes are grossly
identified. Tissue from tumors T1 and T2 are taken for Tissue Bank and
cytogenetics. Tissue from T1 is taken for electron microscopy. Normal cortex
is taken for electron microscopy and immunofluorescence.

Micro A1; renal artery, vein, ureter margin rags, -

Micro A2: T2 in relationshi to fat, 1 fragi

Micro A3: mass T2, 1 frag,h

Micro A4: relationship of mass T2 to kidney parenchyma, l frag,’
Micro A5: additional section of mass T2 in relationship to kidn

parenchyma, 1 frag,
Micro A6: cross— section of adrenal gland l frag,
A7- mass T1 in relationship to kidney parenchyma and large cyst,

Micro

frag.-

Micro A8: losest approach of mass T1 to Gerota‘s fascia (black—inked), l
frag. i

l

 

 

.-..,-»,. r1 .uwm gas-,2 r -,>:., .,-

  

«WW-m .1»:m~m-auw.=rn(txwmumxam-aqun.vx- !¢.\n1DT-'..‘L‘TF nwriwor-vwmzmm 5:4:mazmnuemrww wr-I o-‘Km‘zc—t-n-I.":vs law-run-uazamgis— -.-'.u.—n~.-»-,A:«ui-.m;\. .. ..,

I' A9: additional mass T1 in relationship to Gerota's fascia, 3 Sra i

Micro A10: longitudinal section of renal vein branch partially obstructed

by
tumor, 1 frag, -
cross—section of renal vein branch completely obstructed by

Micro All:
tumor, stamwummn .,¢

1 . frag , F | «mam «mm-e.
Micro A : uninvolved renal parenchyma, 1 frag, ‘

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described speciments) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis<es)

related thereto.

ADDENDUM

RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF KIDNEY PARENCHYMA:

LEFT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

DIFFUSE MESANGIAL AND FOCAL NODULAR GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS, MOST LIKELY
REPRESENTING EARLY DIABETIC CHANGES WITH A SUPERIMPOSED PRIMARY

VASCULAR INJURY (SEE NOTE)

MODERATELY ADVANCED CHRONIC CHANGES OF THE KIDNEY PARENCHYMA, INCLUDING
— FOCAL GLOBAL AND SEGMENTAL GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS, MODERATE (25% or
GLOMERULI AFFECTED), MOST LIKELY SECONDARY To VASCULAR DISEASE
- TUBULAR ATROPHY AND INTERSTITIAL FIBROSIS, MODERATE (30—40% OF CORTEX)
- ARTERIAL AND ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS WITH HYALINOSIS, MODERATE To

SEVERE (SEE NOTE)

NOTE :
The glomeruli show diffuse sclerosis of the mesangial areas with focal nodule

formation. Nodular glomerulosclerosis is most often seen in the setting of
diabetic glomeruloeclerosis, although similar changes also characterize
paraprotein deposition diseases, immune complex—mediated glomerulonephritis, or
primary forms of vascular injury with endothelial damage and subsequent
mesangial scarring. Paraprotein and immune complex deposition diseases can be
ruled out since the immunofluorescence microscopy shows no immunoglobulin
deposits. Because the history in this patient’s electronic medical record does
not include mention of diabetes mellitus, additional studies were performed on
the kidney tissue to further define the nature of the glomerular disease.

Based on the results of the immunofluorescence examination, the process seen
here is most likely mediated, at least in partf by diabetes mellitus/metabolic
syndrome{or related conditions characterized by hyperglycemia and products of
glycosylation) potentially with a superimposed primary form of vascular injury.
Repeated endothelial or vascular injury may be reflective of an underlying
inherited or acquired procoagulant state (e.g., idiopathic or systemic lupus
erythematosus—associated antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, thrombophilic
dysfibrinogenemia, the prothrombin G20210A mutation, the factor v Leiden
mutation, and other forms of resistance to activated protein C), a prior
pre—eclamptic gestation, autoimmune disorders (e.g., systemic lupus
erythematosus, scleroderma, Overlap syndrome), a healed episode of
hemolytic—uremic syndrome or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, angiotoxic
drugs, physical factors (e.g., irradiation, status post bone marrow
transplantation), malignant hypertension and, potentially, paraproteinemias or
other metabolic diseases with an important vascular component (e.g., gout,

hyperhomocysteinemia).

Moderately advanced chronic changes of the kidney parenchyma are present.

 

  

‘ athology Report

. . , 1-;- -. s i'é-i‘myﬁ‘ciflaxl TALK! 1-4 thjtx rune-r. rs”: =. . e: an m a» - mm» -_-_.-

    
  
 
 

1. . snowman-.1.- lul’n'f'

"rs“:zrsrrarr ﬁtﬁsFJ'anvE‘IIC . we: - . 1:5 new. .. _ ,

These changes are a result of functional adaptations to nephron loss from any

glomerular, tubular, interstitial, vascular, or mass»replacing process. while
some degree of parenchymal scarring may be due to local compression effects of
the ipsilateral masses, most of the chronic damage is likely secondary to
vascular scarring. Therefore, a similar degree of chronic damage would be
expected in the contralateral kidney. This patient, therefore, may be at risk
for persistent or progressive proteinuria and renal insufficiency.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr. _ Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin—embedded tissue (block A12) were evaluated

using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains; an
HE-stained frozen section was also evaluated by light microscopy.

The sample consists of cortex and medulla. There are 251 glomeruli present, of
which 54 are globally sclerosed and 8 are segmentally sclerosed. The remaining
glomeruli show expansion of the mesangial areas diffusely, with focal nodule
formation. There are no discernible craters or spikes of the glomerular
capillary wall basement membranes. Several double contours are identified.
Approximately 30—40% of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular atrophy and
interstitial fibrosis. Arteries and arterioles exhibit a moderate to severe

degree of sclerosis with hyalinosis.

IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPY REPORT
Sections of frozen tissue were incubated w1th antibodies specific for the heavy

chains of IgG, IgA, and IgM, kappa and lambda light chains, C3, Clq, albumin,
and fibrin—related antigens.

The sample consists of kidney cortex and medulla. There are 27 glomeruli
present, of which 11 are globally sclerosed. There is minimal granular
deposition of IgA (trace) in the mesangial areas. There is also segmental
deposition of IgM and C3 in the mesangial areas. There is diffuse linear
deposition of albumin (++/4+) and IgG (+/4+) along all basement membranes.
Tubules contain reabsorbed proteins in the form of diffuse reabsorption
droplets. Tubular basement membranes reveal focal deposition of C3 (++/4+).
Many casts in the distal tubules are reactive for polyclonal IgA. Arterioles
show focal C3 reactivity. There is no difference noted in the intensity of the
staining for kappa and lambda light chains in the deposits, casts, or
background of the tissue.

ELECTRON MICROSCOPY REPORT—

Blocks: 7. Blocks examined: 3 thick sections; 0 thin sections.

Tissue submitted for electron microscopy contained no glomeruli. Thin sections

were not evaluated ultrastructurally.

[Clinical history: chronic renal insufficiency (creatinine 2—3 for years),
hypertension]

 

 

  
  
  

 

athology Report

a: w.» 'ru-‘wzxwwmxcmemmz'nu: nx-nr-Jnursxvzwn. an: s.-

 

--*-~ ‘:'—~ ".tr‘n'lﬁ'rh'els v. r:’nr.l|:.'.'.l‘."" “ca-nimzn;

Accession Number: “ Report Status:
Type: Cyt enetics
Casmuk

PATIENT.
Cytogeneticist:

   
 

 

  

 

KARYOTYPE: T2;45,X,eY[9]/46,XY{1]
METAPHASES COUNTED: 10 ANALYZED: 5 SCORED: 5 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

No metaphases were available from specimen labeled T1, therefore the
cytogenetic analysis Could not be performed.

Nine of 10 metaphases from the specimen labeled T2 contained loss of the Y
chromosome. Loss of the Y chromosome can be seen in nonneoplastic cells in
older men, and this finding is not characteristic of any particular type of
tumor.

COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may nor be detectable using the
standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400

bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
.? RCC vs Oncocytic RCC

 

 

