. 4. .._,,,s,..myw.un4 " "ﬂ
",1 ~11: “'

 

 

’ v-3-.. “was“; .«msmssza’t-ﬁWV‘ ' r__,,w¢-5‘:l§:
621:1;chch 11%ng N05 3’3 70/3 ’ ..
51/“! Castle : [mﬂvufm 651/” 1/‘7/II
W
Namei UUID:79482353-F9A0-4A36-9783-F27024152E50d ted DOB: F m:
TCGA-AX-AlCE-aiA-PR e ac .
lll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 511:?
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll AGE . . ' Female
ill llllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllll ll lllllllll l lll Attending physical);
Ordering Pr0v1der:
Copy to:
Consulting:
Surgical Pathology Final
Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date: l
CORRECTED REPORT FOR:

This report was corrected to add the following statement to the ﬁrst paragraph within the gross description:

"The separate tissue within the container was discussed with who states that it originated
from within the uterus. No tissue was seen outside of the uterus at the time of operation. "

    

report othen/vise remains unchanged.

Diagnosis

Part A, uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, radical hysterectomy, bilateral s
Poorly-differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinorna with the following features:
- Neoplasm measures 8.5”cm in maximum dimension and is present within the
endometrial cavit .
- Neoplasm invades less than 50% of the myometrium.
- No involvement of the endocervix/ectocervix is identiﬁed.
- Angiolymphatic invasion is present.
- Bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries with no evidence of carcinoma.
- Margins negative for carcinoma.
Please see Comment and Synoptic data.

Parts B-E, lymph nodes, right paraaortic (3), left paraaortic (2), right pelvic (7), left pelvic (5), dissection:
Seventeen total lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma.

0:
:3
o.
a
(D
U)
:72"
o
_.
3
El
(5
3
m
9.
m
9
3
Q
Q
0
9.
(7
§
3"

 

 

x mmm~»m- *-

Name. DOB: FIN:
MRN:
Visit:
AGE SEX: Female
Attenumg Physician:
Ordering Provider:
Copy to:
Consulting:

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

CORRECTED REPORT FOR:

This report was corrected to add the following statement to the ﬁrst paragraph within the gross description:

"The separate tissue within the container was discussed with . who states that it originated
from within the uterus. No tissue was seen outside of the uterus at the time of operation. "

  

e report otherwise remains unchanged.

Diagnosis
Part A, uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, radical hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy:
Poorly-differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma with the following features:
- Neoplasm measures 8.5 cm in maximum dimension and is present within the
endometrial cavity.
- Neoplasm invades less than 50% of the myometrium.
- No involvement of the endocervix/ectocervix is identiﬁed.
- Angiolymphatic invasion is present.
- Bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries with no evidence of carcinoma.
— Margins negative for carcinoma.
Please see Comment and Synoptic data.

Parts B-E, lymph nodes, right paraaortic (3), left paraaortic (2), right pelvic (7), left pelvic (5), dissection:
Seventeen total lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma.

Comment

 

Page i of 5

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

has co-reviewed selected slides (AS-A7, A10-A11) and agrees with the diagnosis of poorly
differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma.

A: Endometrium, Hysterectomy, Macroscopic
SPECIMEN TYPE:
Radical hysterectomy (includes parametria)
'TUMOR SITE:
*Specify location(s), if known: Anterior and posterior endometrium
TUMOR SIZE:
Greatest dimension: 8.5 cm
OTHER ORGANS PRESENT:
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube

 

A: Endometrium, Hysterectomy, Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, not othen/vise characterized
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
GS: More than 50% nonsquamous solid growth
MYOMETRIAL lNVASlON:
Specify depth of invasion: 8 mm
Specify myometrial thickness: 22 mm
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT1b [IB]: Tumor conﬁned to corpus uteri: Tumor invades less than one-half of the myometrium
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 17
_ Number involved 0
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed
MARGINS:
Uninvoived by invasive carcinoma
*Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 22 mm

FIN: MRN:

 

‘ Page 4 or 3

 

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:

Veriﬁed Date:
*Specify margin: Anterior parametrial margin
VENOUS/LYMPHATIC (LARGE/SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (V/L):
'Present
MD

MD
(Electronic Signature)

Clinical History
See Previous Reports:

ometrial adenocarcinoma.

 

Specimen
A) Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries/fallopian tubes. B) Right paraaortic lymph node. C) Left paraaortic lymph
node. D) Right pelvic lymph node dissection. E) Left pelvic lymph node dissection.

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in 5 containers designated with the patient's name

Part A is designated "uterus, cervix, R/L tubes/ovaries. other tissue consistent with tumor". The specimen
consists of a total hysterectomy specimen to include a uterus with attached cervix and attached bilateral
adnexa. Separate in the container are fragments of tan-gray friable soft tissue, approximately 6.5 x 6.5 x 3.4
cm in aggregate dimension. The separate tissue within the container was discussed with .
who states that it originated from within the uterus. No tissue was seen outside of the uterus at the time of

operation.

The left fallopian tube with ﬁmbriae is 3.5 cm in length and 1.0 cm in diameter. The ovary is tan-pink, 1.5 cm in
greatest dimension. Bivalving reveals a normal ovarian architecture. The right fallopian tube with ﬁmbriae is 3
cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. The ovary is tan—pink, 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Serially sectioning

reveals a normal ovarian architecture.

M FIN: MRN: _ __
Page 3 of 5

 

Surgical Pathology Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Verified Date:

The uterus/cervix is 166 g, 8.5 x 7.2 x 4.3 cm. The serosa contains a small amount of fibrous and hemorrhagic
adhesions. The cervix is tan-pink, slightly hemorrhagic, 2.2 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm with an oval, patent 05. The
paracervical/parametrial margin is inked black. Upon bivalving, the endocervical canal is 1.0 cm, and the
endometrial cavity is approximately 4.5 cm from cornu to cornu. Within the endometrium is a large tan-gray
fungating mass involving 80% of the anterior endometrium and approximately 10% of the posterior
endometrium. The mass is approximately 8.5 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm, extends to the lower uterine cavity. but does not

per code of sections.

CODE OF SECTIONS:

 
  

 
 

A1 Representative portions of loose tissue from container
A2 Left fallopian tube and ovary

g Right fallopian tube and ovary

Cervix

A5—A7 Anterior endometrium/myometrium. serosal surface, mass deepest invasion
A8 Left parametrial margin

A9 Posterior cervix
A10-A11 Posterior endometrium/myometrium mass, deepest invasion

A12 Right parametrial margin
Tissue was taken as per the and protocol.

Part B is designated "right paraaortic LN". The specimen consists of lobulated adipose tissue, 3.0 x 2.7 x 1.4
cm in aggregate dimension. Sectioning reveals 3 lymph node candidates ranging from 1.0 cm to 1.5 cm. Each
lymph node is bisected and submitted in separate cassettes B1-BS.

Part C is designated "left paraaortic". The specimen consists of lobulated adipose tissue, 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm.
Sectioning reveals 2 lymph node candidates ranging from 1.2 cm to 1.9 cm. Each is bisected and submitted in

separate cassettes C1—C2.

Part D is designated "right pelvic LN". The specimen consists of lobulated adipose tissue, 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.8 cm in
aggregate dimension. Sectioning reveals 8 lymph node candidates ranging from 0.3 cm to 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm.
The specimen is submitted as per code of sections.

CODE OF SECTIONS:
D1 Four lymph nodes, intact

FIN: MRN:

 

Page 4 of 5

 

 

Sugﬂcal Patholomr Final

Collected Date:
Received Date:
Veriﬁed Date:

DZ Single lymph node, bisected
D3 Single lymph node. bisected
D4 Single lymph node, bisected

D5—D6 Largest lymph node, bisected

Part E is designated "left pelvic LN". The specimen consists of lobulated adipose tissue, 4.2 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm in
aggregate dimension. Sectioning reveals 5 lymph node candidates ranging from 1.0 cm to 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm.
The specimen is submitted as per code of sections.

CODE OF SECTIONS:

E1 Single lymph node, bisected
E2-E3 Single lymph node, bisected
E4 Single lymph node, bisected
E5 Single lymph node. bisected

E6-E7 Largest lymph node, bisected

 

Microscopic Description
Thirty-two H&E stained slides prepared from 30 parafﬁn blocks are examined.

FIN: MRN:
Page 5 of 5

