,.._.__J , , _.

Surgical Pathology Report

 

)
Name: — Case #: *
DOB: —‘ ' Collected:
Gender: F Received:
MRN: - Reported:
Location: Copy TO:
Physician:

 

.
Patholggig interpretation. , M , a, 3

A. Lymph node, sentinel lymph node: Wm» WM M4, was Hoe/3
- No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1). > ’ a,
- Kerstin immunostain pending. 971/ - W N“ c’ g ? 3/”/" W

B. Skin left breast:
- Skin, no pathologic change.

C. ’Lettbreast lumpectomy:
-’lnﬁltrating poorly differentiated ductal carcinoma, high nuclear grade, 2.4 cm in greatest dimension.
- Margins of resection are free of tumor.
- Lymphovascuiar space invasion is present.
- Previous biopsy site identiﬁed.
- The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR, and negative for Her2
- See tumor summary.

D. inferior margin. true blue margin:
- No malignancy seen.

E. Right breast tissue:

- Fibrocystic changes with stromal ﬁbrosis, adenosis, and microcaiciﬁcations.
- Previous biopsy site identiﬁed.

12W UUID:76358109-41M-405C-8894-F6A63A925961
. - TCGA-EW—AiOY-alA-PR Redacted
miraw‘sﬁmm .,.... iiiilliii"iiiiiiiliiimiiiii""'"""
S clmen Size: Greatest dimension: 7.5 cm
9' Additional dimensions: 5.5 x 4.0 cm Ill llllllllll lllllllll l lillll l llllllll l llllll | llll lllll Ill
Laterallty: Left

Tumor Site: Not specified
Size of invasive Component: Greatest dimension: 2.4 cm
Additional dimensions: 1.5 x 1.0 cm
Histologic Type: invasive ductal carcinoma
Histologlc Grade:
Tubule Formation: Minimal less than 10% (score =3)
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Marked variation in size, nucleoli. chromatin clumping, etc (score =3)
Mitotic Count: Greater than 20 mitoses per 10 HPF (score =3)
Total Nottingham Score: Grade Ill: 8-9 points
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO
Number examined: 1
Number involved: 0
Distant Metastasis: pMX
Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Venouleymphatic invasion: Present
Microcaiciﬂcatlons: Present in both tumor and non-neoplastic tissue

omm -
ER: Positive
PR: Positive l
Her2: Negative (3

’ SURGICAL PATHOL Report I .

m'Eiectron ically Signed Out By'“
NOTE Some immnonistoehemlcel antibodies are anatyte wlic reagents (ASRs) validated by ourlaboretory (Her 2, Panic, H pylori. HBoore). These ASRa are clinically useful indicators that do
not tenure FDA approval. These clones are used: loﬁuER. PgR 636=PR, A405:HER2, H~11= GFR, CCH2/DDG9=CMV. F391. 1=AR and HPV by ISH. All immunohidomm sans an uud
with main or moleouar ﬁxed, parelln embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The resale are read by a pathologist at positive or negative.

.MD

As the silencing pathologist. I attest that I; (i) Examined ma relevant
preparation“) for the specimenls); and (ii) Rendered the Wes).

ProcedureslAddenda

Addendum Date Ordered: ' Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: ' ‘i
Date Reported: ‘ i

Addmggm Diagnosig

Keratin immunostain is negative for carcinoma.

.MD

In I

AFS. Sentinel lymph node #1:
Touch prep only: Lymphoid cells.
No malignant cell seen.

CFS. Left breast lumpectomy:
Portion from mass (1 x 0.5 x 0.3cm) taken for tissue bank.

    

Clinlggl ﬂung:

Patient is a female with history of breast cancer.
WEB—iii

Left breast cancer

Specimenls) Received:

A: Lymph node. sentinel lymph node
B: Skin left breast

C: Left breast lumpectomy

D: Inferior margin. true blue margin
E: Right breast tissue (fresh)

ﬁrm Dngription:

A. Received fresh and labeled ‘lymph node. sentinel lymph node" consists of a lymph node, 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. Specimen is
multisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for touch prep.

 

-‘- ﬂ .— mzofa

 

lC

Received in formalin and labeled “skin left breast“ consists of a ellipse of skin. 5.0 cm in length by 1.7 x 0.4 cm.
Representative section submitted in one cassette.

Received fresh and labeled “left breast lumpectomy 1short superior 1 long lateral'consists of a lumpectomy which weighs
90.0 grams after formalin fixation and measure 7.5 cm from medial to lateral. 5.5 cm from anterior to posterior and 4.0 cm
from superior to inferior. Specimen inked as follows. Superior and inferior margin inked black, medial and lateral margins
inked orange. posterior margin inked red and anterior margin inked green. A piece of tumor was taken tumor bank. 1.0 x
1.0 cm. Cut sections of the specimen reveal a stony hard tumor which measure approximately 2.4 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The
tumor is surrounded by fibrous tissue and has an ill-defined border of fibrosis. The areas of ill-defined. fibrosis measure
5.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. The small area of hemorrhagic which measure 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm is located 0.8
cm away from the deep posterior margin and the margin submitted as follows.

Lateral margin

Posterior and inferior margin

Superior and anterior margin

Additional sections of the anterior margin

Sections of the medial margin grossly suspecious area of tumor involvement is located 0.8 cm away from
the closest margin which is posterior and inferior

6 & 7 Additonal sections of the tumor in relation to the psoterior and inferior margin

8&9 Additonal sections of the ﬁbrotlc area at the inferior and posterior margin

10-12 Additonal sections of the biopsy cavity in relation to the inferior and posterior margin

13 Sections of the tumor in relation to the superior and anterior margin

meson-

Received in formalin and labeled “inferior margin. true blue margin” consists of a present of breast tissue. 7.0 cm in length
by 4.0 x 1.2 cm in greatest thickness. One size of the specimen inked in methylene blue and re-inked in black.

Received fresh and labeled 'right breast tissue (fresh)' consists of a fragment of ﬁbre-adipose tissue. 7.0 cm in depth by
5.0 x 3.0 cm. An overlying ellipse of skin measuring 3.0 x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen weighs
approximately 55.0 grams. Specimen is unoriented. Specimen inked black. Cut sections reveal that the specimen consists
of 60.0 % cyst fibro-stroma and 40.0 % adipose tissue. The tumor or suspicious areas are grossly identifiable. Sections of
the stmma and skin are submitted in three cassettes.

' 174.8 610.1 793.81

 
 
   
  
 
 
   
     
 
 

:rkerla
)t'qnosis uiscrepanry

Lrlrnary Tumor Site Discrepancy
liPAA Discrepancy

'rior Malignancy history
gum/Synchronous Pr'uary . i
_ \
Jae is (circle): ”W

l_eVl_e_mrlnitial mg? ‘l I.
. lma Ill.

 
 

  

   

 

“- ‘ “ Fag, 3 o, 3

