UUID:E48CD4E1-FBC6-48AB-BACD-26AABBC252D9 ' ‘
TCGA-Uc-A7PD-91A-PR Redacted 13.0 {D - 3

||IIIIIIIIIII|l|||||||IIIIIII||||||I|||||||II|IIIIII|||||||||I| -
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|I||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlll W, . ﬁlﬁ
II IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII W M W
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 5191; ﬂ: 3539’

72.11, .

Patient ID:

PATHOLOGY DIVISION W 02%?)
Date Collected: 94.) 9/27 [I ‘1')

Date Received:

CLINICAL DATA:

Patient with an invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix. She is now in ﬁrst trimester
gestation.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A) Received fresh intraoperatively designated "para-aortic lymph node" is an
approximately 3.0 cm piece of pink-tan, rubbery soft tissue. A representative section is submitted

for frozen section. The remainder of the
frozen section is submitted in block AFSl, and the remainder of the
specimen is submitted in block A2.

8) Received in formalin designated "para—aortic node #2" are three flat
fragments of yellow—tan ﬁbroadipose tissue ranging from 0.5 cm up to 1.5
cm in greatest dimension. Palpation fails to reveal lymph nodes. The
specimen is submitted in toto as received in block Bl.

C) Received in formalin designated "cervical mass" is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm
piece of white, ﬁrm tissue which is submitted in toto as received in block
C1.

D) Received in formalin designated "left tube and ovary" is a specimen
consisting of a 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm unremarkable ovary with a bosselated
surface attached to a 5.0 cm in length x 0.7 cm in diameter unremarkable
blue-tan fallopian tube with ﬂmbrial end identified. The ovary is
bisected revealing a 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.8 cm partially excised corpus luteum
with the remainder of the cut surface being light tan to yellow-tan with
multiple microcysts. Two representative sections of the entire cut surface
of the ovary are submitted in blocks D1 and D2 along with two cross
sections of fallopian tube in block D2.

E) Received fresh intraoperatively designated "left external iliac node" is a
3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm pink—tan, soft lymph node which is bisected revealing,
for the most part, a homogeneous red cut surface with areas of nodularity.
A representative section is submitted for frozen section. The remainder of

CONTINUED

Patient ID: _

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
the lymph node is submitted in block E2.

F) Received in formalin designated "left external iliac node #2" are three
flat pieces of yellow-tan fibroadipose tissue containing rubbery lymph
nodes. They range from 1.2 up to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is submitted in toto as received in block F1.

G) Received in formalin designated "left obturator" are three pieces of
yellow-tan fibroadipose tissue ranging from 1.2 cm up to 2.6 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in block G1.

H) Received in formalin designated "right external iliac" are four fragments
of yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue ranging from 1.0 cm up to 2.2 cm in greatest
dimension. Palpation fails to reveal lymph nodes. The specimen is
submitted in toto in block H1.

I) Received in formalin designated "right common" is a 2.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm
piece of yellow-tan, firm tissue which is submitted in toto as received in
block I1.

I) Received in formalin designated "right parametrium" is a 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm
piece of tan, ﬁrm tissue with a smooth surface. The specimen is submitted
in toto as received in block 11.

K) Received in formalin designated "right obturator" are three strips of
yellow-tan ﬁbroadipose tissue ranging from 1.7 cm up to 3.7 cm in greatest
dimension. Palpation reveals multiple lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are
submitted in toto in block K1.

L) Received fresh intraoperatively designated "uterus and fetus" is a 619
gram, 16.0 x 6.0 x 10.0 (transverse) cm, enlarged uterus with adjacent
parametrial tissue and vaginal cuff. The serosal surface is pink-tan,
smooth and unremarkable. The specimen is opened in the coronal plane
revealing the uterine cavity to be filled by a gestational sac measuring
10.0 x 9.0 x 3.5 cm. It is opened revealing approximately 50 cc of straw
colored amniotic fluid and a 46.5 grams well developed fetus measuring 13.2
cm in length (crown-heel) with the diagonal diameter of the left foot
measuring 1.3 cm. The eyelids are bilaterally fused. The nares are
closed. The oral cavity is opened revealing no gross anomalies. The
external auditory meatus is closed. There is no evidence of any skeletal
deformity. The anal orifice is probe-patent. The ambiguous genitalia are
unremarkable for gestational age. Determination of the gender is
impossible. The placental disc measures 8.5 x 7.0 x 1.5 cm. It is entirely
implanted on the anterior endometrium. The fetal surface is blue-tan,
smooth and glistening. The umbilical cord measures 17.0 cm in length. The
gestational endometrium is tan with punctate hemorrhages, measuring
approximately 0.8 cm in greatest thickness.

CONTINUED

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Examination of the cervix and the lower uterine segment reveals a 4.2 x 5.0
cm ulcerated, necrotic lesion involving the entire anterior endocervix and

lower uterine segment and most of the posterior endocervix and lower

uterine segment. Sectioning through the lesion reveals deep extension into

the anterior cervical stroma involving the entire thickness anteriorly and

partial thickness posteriorly. The edematous, pink-tan ectocervix is
unremarkable with tumor growth beneath the surface which appears uninvolved
by tumor posteriorly. The vaginal cuff mucosa is light tan, smooth and

wrinkled. The anterior and posterior vaginal cuff mucosal margins are

widely free of tumor.

Sections are submitted as follows: L1, anterior vaginal cuff; L2,

posterior vaginal cuff; L3, right paracervical/parametrial tissue; L4 and
L5, left paracervical/parametrial tissue; L6-L10, ﬁve full thickness cross
sections of anterior cervical tumor; L11, cervix with tumor anterior,
longitudinal section; L12—L14, three full thickness cross sections of
posterior cervix tumor; L15, posterior endo— and ectocervix, longitudinal
section; L16, posterior endocervix with subjacent tumor, full thickness;
L17 and L18, one full thickness section of placental implantation site with
subjacent myometrium, divided in half; L19, three cross sections of the
three vessel umbilical cord; L20, placental membrane; L21 and L22, a full
thickness section of the posterior gestational endometrium with subjacent
myometrium, divided in half.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
AFS) No evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
EFS) No evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A, B, E—K) Bilateral pelvic lymph nodes, as designated above, excision: 11
benign reactive lymph nodes.

G) Left fallopian tube and ovary, excision:

1. Unremarkable ovary with a gestational corpus luteum and multiple
physiologic cysts. No evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
2. Unremarkable left fallopian tube.

L) Uterus (619 grams), excision:

1. Squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix with the following
features:

a. Maximum tumor size 5 cm, endophytic, cicumferential, extending into
lower uterine segment.

b. Histologic type large cell keratinizing, moderately to poorly
differentiated.

c. Tumor invades through more than 90% of the thickness of the cervical
stroma and is present less than 1mm from inked anterior and posterior
paracervical surgical margins, margins are otherwise free of tumor.

d. Extensive perineural space and possible vascular space invasion noted

at stromal parametrial interface; parametrium otherwise free of
tumor.

e. Vaginal mucosal margins are widely free of tumor.

2. Grossly unremarkable fetus in situ, adequate for gestational age with
the following parameters:
a. Weight 46.5 grams.
b. Crown-heel length 13.2 cm.
c. Foot length 1.3 cm.

3. Unremarkable placental disc with normal-appearing chorionic villi
compatible with the gestational age.

4. Unremarkable gestational hypersecretory endometrium.

Performing physician:
Electronically signed:
In compliance with regulations, the pathologist's signature on this

report indicates that the case has been personally reviewed, and the
diagnosis made or conﬁrmed by, the verifying pathologist.

   

       
 

Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primaryiumor Site DIscrepanty
HIPM Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History '.
DuaIvanthronous Primary L" '
. . . ‘ .
Case I: circle), “EB: R'Wiew

.v ‘
”HAL-

M

   

