 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Adipose tissue, ”over right renal mass", partial nephrectomy: Adipose tissue, no tumor seen.
2. Kidney, right, upper pole. cyst wall, partial nephrectomy: Renal parenchyma with fibrosis.
3. Kidney, right, mass/cyst, partial nephrectomy:

— Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type I.

— Renal parenchyma with cysts and fibrosis.

- Fibroadipose tissue. No tumor seen.

NOTE:

 

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Allocate Order to Protocol: - Brief Clinical History: -
with bilateral mul'tifocal papillary renal tumors right robotic
partia. Specimen Taken For I

PROCEDURE: Pre—Operative Diagnosis: right renal mass Post-Operative Diagnosis:
same Operative Findings: 30m renal mass,

 

Patient Identification

 

 

 

 

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. FAT, Over right renal mass
2. CYST. Right upper pole renal wall
3. CYST, Right renal mass

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 3 freshly submitted specimens in containers labeled with patients
name, medical record number, and further specified as follows:

1.

“Fat over right renal mass/cyst" is a yellow soft lobulated adipose tissue fragment, 6.4 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm. It is
serially sectioned revealin yellow soft lobulated cut surfaces. Representative sections are submitted in
white cassettes -g#1 A—1 D.

“Right upper pole renal cyst wall” are multiple tan-pink cyst wall lining fragments ranging from 0.2 to 1.5
cm in greatest dimensions and in the aggregate 1.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. Gross photographs are taken. No

tissues are procured. The s ecimen is entirely placed into formalin and submitted to Pathology for
permanent. In # the s ecimen matches the above description. The cyst wall lining is
entirely submitted in w lte cassette .hm.

“Right renal mass/cyst" is a disrupted tan-pink cystic structure, 6.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm, filled with friable and
hemorrha ic olden yellow—red soft tissues. Gross photographs are taken. Margins are not a concern
per Approximately 50% of tissue is procured for - The remainder of the specimen is
place in o ormalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen

matches the above description. The remainder of the Specimen is serially sectioned and entirely
submitted in white cassettes -#3A-....

Gross description dictated by—

 

 

 

 

Patient Identification

 

