UUID: 15DEGF5C- -3CBD- AEAB- SODZ- 5CC758066751d

mac—3
TCGA- 77- ASGB- 01A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIed Chm’wm‘ 55 cell

III
IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Kayak/”72223 H05 <iridi’l/B
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

@
Histopathology Report 63) IL (—I Cufﬁl b99081“ lobe
HISTORY 94L) 4/7/13

Ungulectomy for squamous cell carcinoma.

IIII
IIII
IIII

434)

MACROSCOPIC

One specimen received.

The specimen is labelled ‘ l. wedge resection lingula' and consists of a wedge
resection of lung measuring in its partially inﬂated state 115 x 90 x 35 mm.

A staple line is present at the proximal margin measuring 85 mm in length. The
pleural surface contains two separate ragged/indurated areas. The largest
measures 35 x 25 mm and is roughened. The second smaller area measures 17 mm
in greatest dimension and has a punched out full thickness defect in the

pleura. The pleura surrounding these roughened areas shows diffuse thickening.
The cut surface shows a pleural-based peripheral tumour. It has an iii—deﬁned
outline with prominent adjacent collapse and consolidation. The tumour
measures approximately 35 x 31 x 19 mm. It appears to directly Involve the two
disrupted pleural surfaces described. previously. The tumour lies 15 mm from
the nearest surgical resection margin. The cut surface of the rest of the lung
parenchyma shows extensive obstructive changes. There are small firm nodules
within this ranging in size from 1 to 5 mm in greatest dimension. They may
represent separate tumour foci. There is also mild emphysema. [lA-IB, tumour
including resection margin; 1010, RS tumour adjacent to smaller full thickness
pleural defect; 1E, RS tumour adjacent to intact pleura next to small defect;

1F, RS tumour- adjacent to larger full thickness pleural defect; 16, RS possible
separate tumour foci within consolidation; 1H, RS relatively normal lung.)

MICROSCOPIC

Sections show a moderately differentiated keratinising squamous cell carcinoma.
it shows areas of necrosis and is associated with a ﬂorid inﬂammatory

response. Invasion of the visceral pleura is conﬁrmed and carcinoma is

present on the inked surface of the disrupted pleura. The stapled. surgical
resection margin is well clear of malignancy. Tumour surrounds and compresses
a number of blood vessels, and there is focal vascular invasion. No lymphatic

or perineural invasion is identiﬁed. The surrounding lung is confirmed to

show organising obstructive pneumonitis. The nodules noted macroscopically
appear to represent foci of bronchlectasis, organising pneumonia and localised
subpleural honeycomb change. No tumour is identiﬁed within these areas.
There is interstitial ﬁbrosis in these areas and there are a few loci of

iibrohlastic proliferation reminiscent of the ﬁbmblastic foci of UIP; however

the section or“ normal appearing lung shows only emphysama with no features to
suggest an established interstitial pneumonitis. No lymph nodes are included.

SUMMARY

Lingulectomy:

Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, 35 mm in diameter.
Pleural invasion present with disruption and tumour on pleural surface.

 

Page 2 0i‘2

Vascular invasion present.
No lymphatic or perineurai invasion identiﬁed.
No lymph nodes included.
Pathoiogicai stage T23 Nx.

Repc

T~28000 M~80703 P1433000

 

ANATOMICAL PAWOLOG‘I

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 
 
 

I I3“ 3
Criteril I“) 31)", 1"": es Nu
_ '_i—_rima_r_L Tumor Site Diu IIepan y

HIJAA Discrepancy

II__aI/Synch_v_cnnus PriﬂlalV—N‘Dttru M _1
2 5: Is IciIEIeI: DISQUAUFIFD .
[ Rewewerimtiais mte Reviewed {4% J

.4 ‘7, _ _, .

DI_agnasis Discrepanry .
*- / Viv;
a LI— 7 < A ~
i Prim Malignancy History Ab
i_- i

 

