    

I gnOSIS

Proximal small bowel, distal stomach, head of pancreas, and distal common bile duct,
pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection):
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Tumor size: 3.2 cm maximum gross tumor dimension.

Tumor site: Pancreatic head.

Surgical margins:

— Proximal (gastric) margin: Negative.

Distal (small bowel) margin: Negative.

Distal pancreatic resection margin: Negative.

- Pancreatic retroperitoneal (uncinate) margin: Negative.

— Common bile duct margin: Negative.

Closest surgical margin: Tumor less than 1 mm from inked unicnate margin.
Lymph—vascular invasion: Not identified.

Perineural invasion: Present.

Regional lymph nodes: 12 identified regional lymph nodes negative for metastatic
neoplasm (0/12).

AJCC pathologiC stage: QT2,N0 (per the Edition of AJCC Staging System)

Separately submitted bile duct margin (with FSA):
Negative for neoplasm.

Separately submitted portal vein margin (with FSB):
Negative for neoplasm.

Gallbladder:
Cholelithiasis.
Chronic cholecystitis.

 

Clinical Information

Obstructive jaundice.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
A. Gross: 1 elongated yellow—tan fragment approximately 1.5 x 0.4 cm. Entirely submitted for F8.
FSA Bile duct margin: benign with area of hyperplasia. Suggest that additional section be submitted from margin if possible.

B. Portal vein margin — yellow-tan elongated fragment measuring approximately 1 x 0.4 cm. All frozen.

 

C. Long suture = pancreatic margin (FS) - black
Short suture = unicnate margin
Single suture = retroperitoneal margin

FSB Portal vein margin: vein and adjacent benign ductules. -

FSC-1 Pancreatic margin (long suture - black): negative for carcinoma.—
FSC-2 Tumor for PS
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma-

Gross Description

"FSA." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette ”FSA."
" FSB." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette “FSB.”
"FSC1." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette “FSC1
"FSC2." All frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette “F802."

"C. NFSC." The specimen consists of a portion of stomach (1.5 x 4.7 x 0.9 cm), duodenum (37.1 x 7.5 cm) and pancreatic
head (7.0 x 4.6 x 4.5 cm). The specimen has been oriented as follows: long suture = pancreatic margin, short suture =
uncinate margin and single suture = retroperitoneal margin. The pancreatic margin has previously been inked black by the
pathologist. The remaining margins are inked as follows: uncinate margin orange and retroperitoneal margin green. A portion
of the pancreatic margin has been submitted at frozen section. The remaining margins will be shaved and submitted. The
common bile duct margin is inked blue, shaved and submitted. Previous sectioning reveals a 2.0 x 1.4 x 2.2 cm pale tan, firm,
ill-defined area. The radial margin has previously been inked black by the pathologist. This area grossly appears to obstruct
the pancreatic duct margin and comes to within 1.6 cm of the pancreatic margin, less than a millimeter of the uncinate, less
than a millimeter of the radial margin, and 0.2 cm of the retroperitoneal margin. The remaining pancreatic parenchyma is
yellow-tan and lobulated. On examination of the stomach, normal rugal folds are present. No masses or areas of interest are
identified. On examination of the duodenum, the serosa is gray-brown with mild adhesions. Upon opening, the mucosa is pale
tan to tan-brown and unremarkable. The ampulla of Vater is probe-patent. No masses or areas of interest are identiﬁed.

The attached peripancreatic and periduodenal fat are examined for lymph nodes. On examination, 10 possible lymph nodes
are identiﬁed. These range in size from 0.2 to 1.9 cm. "C1." gastric and duodenal margins; "C2," remaining pancreatic margin;
"CB," common bile duct margin and sections immediately after pancreatic margin; "C4-C6," firm area to include radial margin;
"C7-08,“ ﬁrm area to include uncinate and retroperitoneal margins; "09," ampulla of Vater; "C10," gastric mucosa; "C11,"
duodenal mucosa; "C12-C13." peripancreatic lymph nodes; "C14." periduodenal lymph nodes, representative.

"D, Gallbladder." The specimen consists of a 6.9 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm unopened gallbladder. The serosa is blue—gray to red-gray,
and the wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. Within the lumen is thin, green-brown bile and less than 50 yellow-gray, ovoid and

fragmented stones measuring up to 1.1 cm. There is also a small amount of clotted blood. The cystic duct is obstructed. The
mucosa is bile stained and denuded with moderate trabeculation. The surgical margin is inked black. "D," 3p, representative.

_ Received in formalin is one iellow cassette labeled as follows:— This will be submitted for

routine processing.

Performing Lab .
—

