 
  

CGA—44—3917

 

SPECIMEN

A. Level 10 lymph node

B. Right upper lobe

C. R4 lymph node right side

D. Level 7 lymph node right side

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received unfixed labeled "level 10 lymph node" and

consists of three portions of soft reddish brown tissue,
the smallest measures 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The largest measures 1 x
0.8 x 0.5 cm. The two smaller nodes are submitted all in block 1.
The largest node is bisected. On sectioning it is homogeneous,

soft

and reddish brown. it is bisected and is all submitted in block 2.
AS—Z.

B. Received fresh for tissue procurement as "right upper

lobe". It consists of a lobe of lung weighing 190 grams
and measuring 17 x 11.2 x 4.2 cm. There is a longitudinal staple
line medially measuring 17 cm in length. The pleural surface
contains a moderate amount of anthracotic pigmentation. On the
inferior edge there are two adjacent dull white soft plaque—like
areas which are 0.5 cm apart. Each of these flattened areas
measures 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. There is also a mass
palpable in the inferior portion of the specimen. Overlying pleura
is smooth and glistening. On section, there is a discrete fleshy
tan necrotic tumor mass measuring 3.2 x 3.2 x 3 cm. Samples are
taken for tissue procurement. Tumor does not approximate pleural
surfaces. A touch preparation is made and examined in order to
obviate the need for flow cytometry. A second staple line is found
joining the first in its mid portion. The second staple line
measures 3.5 cm in length. Upon removing this shorter staple line,
the bronchial margin is identified and appears normal. When probing

GROSS DESCRIPTION
this bronchus, tumor is encountered within 2 cm of the staple line.
Major vessels are also stapled and appear unremarkable at their
margins. Also noted in the hilar area are two adjacent, soft,
blackened lymph nodes measuring up to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension.

 

 

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 " Small pleural "plaques"; 2 — bronchial and
vascular margins of resection; 3 — hilar nodal tissue; 4 H tumor
with bronchus; 5-9 - additional tumor; 10 — random section.
C. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"84 lymph node right side" is a 4 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate
of brown gray tan irregular soft tissue fragments grossly
consistent
with lymphoid tissue. The specimens are entirely submitted in two
cassettes. AS—Z.
D. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"level 7 lymph node” are multiple red black irregular soft
tissue fragments which may contain possible lymphoid tissue. This
has an aggregate measurement of 4 x 3 x 1 cm. The specimens are
entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l‘. -

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A, C & D, microscopic examination performed.
B. This right upper lobe of lung contains a 3.2 cm
poorly
differentiated adenocarcinoma. All margins are negative for tumor.
The tumor invades and ulcerates a major bronchus. Please see the
template below:

Histologic type: Adenocaroinoma

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Primary tumor {pT): The tumor measures 3.2 cm in greatest
dimension, pTZ

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Margins of resection: Bronchial and vascular margins
negative for tumor.
Direct extension of tumor: None identified
Venous (large vessel) invasion: Negative
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Attached to the main specimen
there are two lymph nodes which are negative for
metastatic

 

 

disease. Multiple other nodes are identified in parts A,
C & D and all are negative, pNO.
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessed
Other findings: TWO nonspecific small areas of fibrosis
noted in a subpleural location.

5, 4x3, 64

DIAGNOSIS
A. Level 10 lymph node, dissection - Three lymph nodes negative
for
metastatic disease, 0/3.
B. Right upper lobe, lobectomy — Right upper lobe of lung with
poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading and ulcerating
bronchial tissue. All margins and pleural surfaces negative
for tumor. Two additional lymph nodes present negative for
metastatic disease, 0/2.
C. R4 lymph nodes right side, dissection - Multiple reactive lymph
nodes with anthracotic pigmentation, all negative for metastatic
disese.
D. Level 7 lymph nodes, right side, dissection w Multiple reactive
lymph nodes with anthracotic pigmentation, all negative for
metastatic disease.

DIAGNOSIS

 

——— End Of Report ~—

 

