UUID: BD2D5619- “69- 4535- AEBQ- 45162A47267Ad
TCGA- FD-A43P-61A-P

IIIIIIIIIIIIlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlllIIIIIIIIIIIIEd

|||||||||||I|I|II||I||||II|||I|I|IIII|I||||I ||IIII|II|II IIII III
Sample "II
Gender: Male

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIII
DOB:

Race: Black
Report Date: I L g , o , 3

' . w w
Pathomgy Report. cud/m a I Ma‘HuLmkl no: /3
SF‘I’L ‘. Haida/I bonus... Lb’l. I

Surgical Pathology Report [d

4/: *7?

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Nine lymph nodes, no tumor (0/9).

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Six lymph nodes, no tumor (0/6).

C. Urinary bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and vas deferens;
cystoprostatectomy:

- Bladder with invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, see pathologic
parameters.

- Bladder diverticulum at lateral wall with urothelial carcinoma in situ.
- Prostate with incidental microscopic prostatic adenocarcinoma, see
pathologic parameters.

- All resection margins, free of tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

. Grade of tumor: High grade.

. Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria, inner half.
. Tumor distribution: Unifocal, 2.2 cm at dome.

. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.
. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/ 15).

9. pTNM: pT2a,N0,MX.

OOQQUI-b-WN—I

 

this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

. Gleason Score: 3+3=6.

. Perineural Invasion: Absent.

. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - leﬁ (slide C26).
. Tumor Volume Estimate: 1%.

. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

. Extraprostatic extension: Absent.

. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.

. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/15).
12. pTNM: pT2a,N0,MX.

\DOOQONUIJiLHNr—n

_ this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xx
[I MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D., PhD.

Electronically Signed Out by []MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a -year-old male with malignant neoplasm of the bladder, undergoing
a cystoprostatectomy with ileo-conduit surgery.

Specimens Received:

A: Left pelvic lymph node

B: Right pelvic lymph node

C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in three containers each labeled with the patient‘s
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph node".
Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple, irregular, ﬁbrofatty, soft
tissue fragments aggregating to a total of 7.5 x 4 x 1 cm. Ten lymph node
candidates are dissected from the specimen ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 2.5
cm. Lymph node candidates are entirely submitted as follows

Al: 5 lymph node candidates

A2: One lymph node, bisected

A3: One lymph node, bisected

A4: One lymph node, bisected
A5-A6: One lymph node, serially sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph

node". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple, irregular,

ﬁbrofatty, soft tissue fragments aggregating to a total of 6 x 3.5 x 1cm. Six
lymph node candidates are dissected from the specimen ranging in size from 0.4
cm to 2.3 cm. Lymph node candidates are submitted entirely as follows

Bl: One lymph node, bisected

B2: One lymph node, serially sectioned

B3: One lymph node, bisected

B4: One lymph node, bisected

B5: 2 possible lymph node candidates

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "Bladder, prostate and
seminal vesicles". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 292.2 g, 17 x 12.5
x 3.4 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7 x 6 x 2 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 4.5 x 3.8 x 3.5 cm prostate. The right seminal
vesicles measure 2.7 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm and light vas deferens measures 8 cm in
length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The left seminal vesicles measures 3 x 1.5 x 0.6
cm and left vas deferens measures 10.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The
right ureteral stump measures 1.3 cm, the left measures 1.7 cm, and both
demonstrate intact, patent lumens.

The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is

inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The prostate is received with severe disruptions at the apex but it's surrounded

by a thin, intact membranous capsule. Sectioning demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan,
peri-urethral nodularity with no discrete masses or indurations.

The opened bladder reveals a 2.2 x 2 x 1 cm polypoidal, ﬁrm, and white mass,
located in the dome of the bladder. On cut section, the mass does not extend

into the muscularis propria and measures 2.1 cm from the deep margin of
resection. A 3.5 x 2.5 x 2 diverticulum is noted on the left lateral wall. The

wall of diverticulum is 0.3 cm and is lined by pink—tan, attenuated, bladder
mucosa with no mass lesions or ulcerations. The remainder of the bladder mucosa
is wrinkled, pink-tan with a uniform 0.4 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral
oriﬁces, adjacent to the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent. Specimen
photographs are taken. - - . -

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

C 1: Right ureter resection margin

C2: Left ureter resection margin

C3: Distal prostatic urethral margin

C4: Prostatic apical margin

C5-C6: Full-thickness section of the tumor (at maximum depth), bisected

C7-C9: Remaining tumor, submitted entirely.

C10: Bladder mucosa, anterior wall

C1 1: Bladder, mucosa, trigone

C12: Bladder, mucosa, right lateral wall

C13: Bladder, mucosa, posterior wall

C14: Bladder, mucosa, left lateral wall with portion of the diverticulum
C15: Bladder mucosa, diverticulum

C16: Bladder mucosa, diverticulum

Cl 7- C22: Representative sections of the right half of prostate from apex to
base

(C22: Right vas and seminal vesicle)

C23-C28: Representative sections of the left half of prostate from apex to base
(C28: Left vas and seminal vesicle) '

XX

[1

