UUID : 312C364B-BUM-4369-BBEA-EA51BZD3490A

TCGA-FV-A RS-B

IlllllHllHlllllllllllHllIlll1A-
!“ llllllllll I ll lllllllll lllllHll H"

atlent esu ts

 

Ill'llllllllllIllll'llﬁﬁlﬁillted
llllllllllll
mlllllllgllulllllllllllllllllllilll'l'iill'l'l'i'l'l'i'll'i'l'

p

——_-

 

 

 

 

 

(-

- V

 

 

 

 

: Surgical Pathology (Copath) 1 Final]
Path Report Final

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

ACCESSION NO.

Final Diagnosis(es).

(A) Thyroid, thyroidectomy: Papillary thyroid carcinoma,
multifocal. bilateral (see Synoptic report. below).

(B) Lymph node, protracheal. excision: One lymph node,
negative for neoplasm.

Synoptic Report:

Procedure: Total thymidectomy.

Specimen Integrity: Fragmented.

Specimen Size:

Right Lobe: 4.7 x 2.0 x 1.3 cm.

Left Lobe: 3.9 x 2.2 x 1.6 cm.

Isthmus plus or minus Pyramidal Lobe: .1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm.
Specimen Weight: 9.9 gm,

Tumor Focality: Multifocal - bilateral.

Tumor Laterality:

Right lobe (3 mm single focus).

Left Lobe: Multifocal - maximum size 7 mm).

Isthmus: 5 mm focus.

Tumor Size:

Greatest dimension: 0.7 cm (multiple separate loci.
bilateral. including isthmus).

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma

Variant: Classical (usual) (60%).

Follicular variant (40%)

Architecture:

Classical (papillary) (60%)

Follicular (40%)

Cytomorphology: Classical

Histologic Grade: 62: Moderately differentiated.
Margins: Margin uninvolved by carcinoma (within 1 mm).
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated.

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Present, minimal extent
Lymphvascular lnvasron: Not identiﬁed.

Perlneural Invasion: Not identified.

Extrathyroid Extension: Not identified.

Second Tumor,

Tumor Laterality: Right lobe. left lobe and isthmus.
Tumor Size:

Greatest Dimensron: 0. 7 cm.

Additional Dimenswns: 0.5 x 0.3 cm.

DIAGNOSIS OF PAPILLARY CARCINOMA CONVEYED TO

lne gross description and all microscopic slides have been
reVlewed and interpreted by the undersigned pathologist”

 

Requested B»: ’

Printed from: Default

Page: l of 4

 

 

 

HMR U‘U rec/(mm! k! WW“
5‘“ Wm“? W in» by‘ . ,1“)
“1074.. got-rm- WSW“ ’ﬁ gvlhw midw—
n‘dzuM a» cow.
"blah;
49-13 ,
PM“ 'CD '(‘A/¥{ ‘H’xxKOIJ
carcmoma, P0»? .
3‘LUO)5
S‘k ('Ol' (j
' “IN C73. a
5—3041
ED

cw 1 cafoi‘nmaquPmmﬁ

- ‘ Vari‘anl
Follicular qgi—lOlC—S

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

Ir“

 

 

Surgical Pathology (Copatb)

Electronically Signed

opew-iei up; I\w\aw~v\lu.

A: Total thyroid bilateral lobes

B: Pro-tracheal lymph node

Clinical History:

Hurthle cell carcinoma

(A) short - superior left lobe. long - lateral right lobe.
lntraoperative Consultation:

Time Received: '

Time Reported:

FSBI: Pretracheal lymph node: No carcinoma (1 block).

MD ,
Gross Description: '
(A) (total thyroid with bilateral lobes)
Specimen components and dimensions: The right lobe is 5.2 grams
and measures 4.7 x 2.0 x 1.3 cm. The isthmus is 0.9 grams and
measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. The left lobe weighs 4.7 grams and
measures 3.9 x 2.2 x 1.6 cm.
Inking Scheme: The spedmen is inked as follows: right black.
left blue. isthmus red.
Size. appearance. and location of tumor Within the left lobe
are three separate masses. all well circumscribed. pale gray.
soft and fleshy with focal hemorrhage. Beginning superior. they
measure 0.6. 0.7. and inferiorly measures 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The right lobe has a single, central. indurated,
gray—white nodule that is 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The
isthmus has two solid. gray-white nodules, both 0.4 cm in
greatest dimension.
Number of tumor nodules: Six, three in the left lobe, one in
the right. and two in the isthmus.
Capsular penetration: The two from the superior pole of the
left lobe are difﬁcult to discern. All others appear within
the parenchyma and no extracapsular extension.
Soft tissue extension: None identified.
Other findings: None.
Uninvolved parenchyma: Red-brown. soft. lobulated tissue.
Blocks submitted: Entire right lobe superior to inferior in
cassettes Al-A6. The isthmus IS tnmted and submitted in
cassette A7. the left lobe is entirely submitted in sequence
from superior to interior in cassettes A8—A12.
(B) (pretracheal lymph node - FS) Received fresh for frozen
section evaluation is a 0,8 x 0.8 x 0 2 cm, tan-pink, ovord,
rubbery tissue fragment that is bisected and submitted entirely
for frozen section evaluation in cassette FSBl.

Finall

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 2 0H

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

w

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology (Copath) I Finrm

Microscopic Description:
Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of lH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the
Histomtbc'ss" ‘ ‘L ' ‘ ' "to Department of Pathology at the

l ey have not been cleared by the US
Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These

tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical

care. In cases where lrnmunohistochemislry testing is performed.
the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used
to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(31G7). ER(SP1),
PR(1Ez), Her2ned(455), C0117(Pcly), CDZO(L26).

Unless otherwise stated in the report. all tissue tested for

ERPR by lHC, Her? by lHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER. PR. Ki—67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her‘Z/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak.
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is

scored as (1+). less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%

of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue ﬁxed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

I
l l'rinrcd l'rurn: Default

Page: .3 ol‘ 4

