 

Surgical Pathology Report

Name: . Case #: - ’
DOB: " “ Collected: ‘ " ‘ “ ‘ ‘ ‘ «a

Gender: F Received: . . o
MRN: F Reported: ,
Location: _ Copy To:

Physician: i

 

W
tholo to inter rotation:

P_a___g___2____

A. Left"breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stlth- superior, long lateral):
- invasive ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 2 (3+2+2). 2.5 cm in greatest linear dimension.
- Associated ductal carcinoma in situ, intermediate grade (DIN2), cribriform type with necrosis.
- The margins are free from tumor.

- Distance from the nearest margin is 1.8 cm (superior). / ob - 0 — 3

- Lymphovascular space invasion is identiﬁed. 3 \ @wauf Mp1, Ma; 3549/3
- No malignancy seen in skin. I ,0 f I“

- Mlcrocalciiications. 5,72; W; No; C? ' 301/”

- Previous biopsy site.

B. Skin left breast:
- No malignancy seen in skin.

C. Additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue indicates true margin:
~ invasive ductal carcinoma, 0.4 cm in greatest linear dimension.
- The distance from the true margin is 1.0 cm.

0. Left axillary contents:
~ Metastatic carcinoma in one out of thirteen lymph nodes with extranodal extension (1/13).
- Size of metastatic tumor is 2.0 cm.

E. Right breast tissue: -Agsssccssozs
. . UUID:A6832364-B9DA-ADC7-9AA7
‘ N0 malignancy 868" In Skln- TCGA-EN-AiPA-CiA-PR RedaCted

~ ' . Q g , .. .. ' ... i " . ‘iliii'iiliiiiiiii iiill'ilii iiiiiii'iiii
T m r S mma va iv rclnoma of th Breast : I“ H I "III“ I“
iii illlilil|||||l|illiil||l|||||||||liliillillllllllllillllll
Specimen Type: Partial breast
Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling: Axillary dissection (partial or complete dissection)
Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 16cm
Additional dimensions: 12 x 3 cm
Specimen Laterallty: Lott)
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 2.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 2 x 1 cm
Tumor Focallty: Multiple foci of invasive carcinoma
Number of tool: 2
Sizes of individual fool: 2.5 cm and 0.4 cm
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis
Nipple: DCIS does not involve the nipple epidermis
Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ: DCIS is present
Htstologlc Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise speciﬁed)
Hietologic Grade:
Glandular (AcinarWubular Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphlsm: Score 2
Mitotic Count: Score 2
Overall Grade: Grade 2
Margins: Unlnvoived by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1.0 cm (superior)
Lymph-Vascular invasion: Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Lymph Nodes:

 

” SURGICAL PATHOL Report "

._——_

Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 12
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 1
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells: 2.0 cm
Extranodal Extension: Present
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
Pathologlc Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT2
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN1a
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: immunoreactive tumor cells present
Progesterone Receptor: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: lmmunoreactlve tumor cells present
Her2: Performed on another specimen
Specify specimen:
Results: Negative (Score 0)
Microcaicifications: Present in invasive carcinoma

“'Electronically Signed Out By'"

NOTE: Some lmmunanistochemicai enmodiss are warm spoon reagents (ASRs) validated by owlabolelory (He! 2, Parvo. H. pylori. Haoore). rinses ASRs ere clhicoliy uselul Micstws the! do
not recurs FDA approval. These clones are used: ID5=ER. PgR 636W. Humane. H-11=£GFR. CCHZIDDGO=CMV. ”9.4.1:”? and HPV by lSH. All trrmuriohlstochemleel stains are used
we): formalh or ”clearly ﬁxed. pareﬂin embedded tissue. Deractbn Is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist as pawl/e or warm.

2. MD

As the attending pathologist. I attest met I.“ (0 Examhed the relation
prepsrstbnts) for the spscbnena); and (I) Rendered the diagnosmos).

   

Clinical Histo :
("female with left breast cancer

Pre Operative Diagnosis:
Lett breast cancer

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Left breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stlth- superior, long lateral )iresh
B: Skin left breeast (perm)

C: Additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue indicates true margin (perm)

D: Left axillary contents (perm)

E: Right breast tissue (perm)

Gro sDescrl tion:

A. Received fresh and labeled “left breast lumpectomy with needle localization (short stiih- superior. long lateral ) fresh'
specimen is inked for evaluation of margins as follows: posterior. black; anterior. yellow; superior. blue; inferior. green;
lateral. orange: medial. red. The specimen weighs 299.0 grams and measures 16.0 cm from medial to lateral, 12.0 cm
inferior to superior and 3.0 cm anterior to posterior. it is oval in shape, yellow in color. set! in consistency. The specimen
has an ellipse of skin measuring 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Serial sectioning of the specimen reveals an oval mass with infiltrating
borders and measures approximately 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The mass occupies 10% of the entire specimen. it is white in
color and firm in consistency. The distance of the mass from the margin is as follows: posterior 2.0 cm. inferior 2.0 cm.
anterior 3.0 cm. superior 3.0 cm, medial 10.0 cm. lateral 9.0 cm. The remaining at the breast parenchyma appears
unremarkable with fat to stroma ratio 90:10. The mass has a clip. A section of mass was submitted to tissue bank.
Sections submitted as follows: .

ﬂ 5 i Page 2 of 3

 

 

H SURGICAL PATHOL Report :”

1-8 Sections of the mass in toto

9&10 Representative section from the superior margin)
11&12 Representative section from inferior margin
13&14 Representative section from lateral margin
158.16 Representative section from medial margin
17&18 Representative section from posterior margin
19&20 Representative section from anterior margin

21 Representative section from the remaining breast parenchyma
22 Representative section of the skin
B. Received in formalin and labeled 'skln left breast” is a skin tag measuring 5.0 x 1.0 cm. Representative section submitted

In one cassette.

C. Received in formalin and labeled 'additional tissue superior to the two small nodules blue indicates true margin (perm)' is
oval in shape. The surgeon inked the true margin in blue. Resident inked true margin in black. it measures 3.0 x 1.0 x 1.0
cm. it Is submitted in toto in eight cassettes.

D. Received in formalin and labeled “left axillary contents (perm)' is axillary contents measuring 10.0 x 8.0 x 3.5 cm. it is
yellow in color and soft in consistency. There are 13 lymph nodes. The largest lymph node measures 2.0 x 2.0 cm. The
lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

1-8 One lymph node per cassette
9 Two lymph nodes
10 Three lymph nodes

E. Received in formalin and labeled “right breast tissue (perm)‘ is a soft. yellow breast tissue measuring 14.0 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm.
Serial sectioning does not reveal any gross lesions. The breast parenchyma appears to be normal with fat to stroma ratio
90:10. it has a skin tag measuring 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Sections are submitted as follows:

1 Section from skin
2-4 Representative section of stroma

. MD --i

[CD-9(8): 174.8 196.3 217

“FAA
'riar

2:3: is
teview: r

 

 

* ﬁ - Page 3 of 3

