UUID:89019149-BSDZ-4548-SBFE-BAC
TCGA-UY-A78P-01 - CASFSDA“

' mnmunmmmummmm‘lP“ Redacted m... ,3
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHHIIIIPI"Hm ”II" W i... 9:01 . a. .0

IllllllmIHIHIHIIHHHHIHIIHIINHIIHIHHlllllllllllll WW3
Sol/i L' W “08

0497.9

Clinical Diagnosis/History: ) ' 8A20/L3

The patient is a ilryearhold woman who presented in with gross

hematuria. She underwent a transurethral resection of a PLAr“. TUKBT was pwcvrmcd ON

high-grade muscle invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. The-+hu 755“ +“(“0"-

patient now undergoes a radical cystectomy with 65“.

resection of the uterus, vagina, bilateral tubes and ovaries.

Gross Description:

The specimen is received in seven parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name
and medical record number. Parts A~C are received

fresh. Parts 0-6 are received in formalin.

Part A, additionally labeled "1 - right distal ureteral margin ES," consists
of a single white-tan segment of ureter that

measures 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely Submitted for frozen
section diagnosis as F51, with the remnant tissue

submitted in cassette A1.

Part B, additionally labeled "3 - left distal ureteral margin PS," consists of
a single white—tan segment of ureter and

fibroadipose tissue that measures 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The ureter only is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F52, with

the remnant tissue submitted in cassette Bl. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted in cassette 82.

Part C is additionally labeled "bladder, uterus, ovaries, portion of vagina."
and consists of bladder, uterus, adnexae and

vagina.The entire specimen weighs 385 grams. The bladder measures 7.5 x 7 x 2
cm. The tumor measures 2.0 x 2.5 cm and extends

1.0 cm in depth and is right adjacent to the right ureteral orifice; it is
confined to the bladder. There is no invasion beyond

the bladder wall. The tumor is 5 cm distance from the urethral margin. The
bladder mucosa is gray—brown with small and

edematous. No further ulcerations, polyps or masses can be visualized or
palpated. The urethra measures 3.5 in length and 1,5

cm in diameter. The right ureter measures 1.5 x 0.5 cm, the left ureter
measures 1.3 x 0.5 cm. The vaginal cuff measures 0.9 cm

in greatest dimension, the uterus measures 9 cm from fundus to cervix, 6.5 cm
from cornu to cornu, 2.5 cm from anterior to

posterior. The right ovary measures 3 x 2 x 1 cm, the left ovary measures 3.0
x 2.4 x 1.0 cm. The right ovary reveals corpora

lutea on out section, the left ovary reveals a white rim on cut section. The

right fallopian tube measures 2.5 x 0.5 cm, the

left fallopian tube measures 4.0 x 0.5 cm. The cervix is opened in the frontal
plane, the cervix shows nabothian cysts, but no

other lesions are found. The endometrium measures 0.1 cm and the myometrium
measures 1.5 cm.

Cassette submission:

Cassette Cl: Right ureteral margin en face. ‘
Cassette C2: Left ureteral margin on face.

Cassette C3: The urethral margin is inked green and
perpendicular sections from 12~3 o'clock are submitted.
Cassette C4: Perpendicular sections of urethral margin 3—6 o'clock.
Cassette C5: Perpendicular sections from urethral margin 6-9 o'clock.
Cassette C6: Urethral margin, perpendicular section 9-12 o'clock.
Cassette C7: Perpendicular sections of vaginal cuff {multiple
representative sections).
Cassette C8: Full-thickness sections of bladder, tumor and cervix
demonstrating their relationship.
Cassette C9: Tumor in relationship to right ureter.
Cassette Clo: Tumor (the tumor is entirely submitted).
Cassette C11: Representative sections of the bladder trigone.
Cassette C12: Representative sections of right bladder.
Cassette C13: Representative sections of left bladder.
Cassette C14: Anterior cervix.
Cassette C15: Posterior cervix.
Cassette C16: Anterior endomyometrium.
Cassette C17: Posterior endomyometrium.
Cassette C13: Right ovary and fallopian tube.
Cassette C19: Left ovary and fallopian tube.
Cassette C20: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Part D, labeled "right pelvic lymph node." consists of a single soft,
irregular piece of yellow—brown, fatty tissue measuring 7

x 6.5 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is examined for candidate lymph nodes. Multiple
candidate lymph nodes are found. ranging from 0.2

to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Candidate lymph nodes are submitted as
follows:

Cassette 01: Three whole nodes.
Cassette D2: One node. bisected.
Cassette DB: Multiple whole nodes.
Cassette D4: One node, bisected.
Cassette 05: Multiple whole nodes.
Cassette 06: One node, bisected.
Cassettes D?~DB: One node, bisected.

The remaining tissue is returned to the container.

Part 8, labeled "left pelvic lymph node," consists of multiple soft, irregular
pieces of yellow—brown, fatty tissue measuring 7

x 4.8 x 2.5 cm in aggregate. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found,
ranging from 0.1 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.

Candidate lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Cassette El: Multiple whole nodes.
Cassettes EZ-ES: One node, bisected.
Cassette Ed: One node, bisected.
Cassette ES: One node, bisected.
Cassette 86: Two nodes, one bisected.
Cassette 2?: Two whole nodes.
Cassettes EB~E9z One node bisected.

The remaining tissue is returned to the container.

Part F, labeled "distal left ureter," consists of a single soft, roughly

tubular piece of yellow-brown tissue measuring 1.3 cm

in length with a diameter of 0.4 cm. The specimen is unoriented; the two end
margins are inked blue. The specimen is

cross-sectioned and submitted in cassette Fl. There is remaining tissue,
consisting of two fragments of soft, irregular,

yellow~brown fat, measuring 2 x l x 0.2 cm. These remaining fragments are
entirely submitted in cassette F2.

Part G, labeled "distal right ureter," consists of a single soft, unoriented,
roughly tubular piece of brown-tan/white tissue

measuring 1.5 cm in length with a diameter of 0.5 cm. The end margins are
inked blue. The specimen is serially cross-sectioned

and entirely submitted, with the and margins in cassette GI and the central
portion in cassette GZ.

Diagnosis Comments:
Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment
1. Tumor type: Urothelial (transitional cell).
2. Tumor grade: High grade.
3. Tumor size: 2.5cm.
4. Extent of tamer in bladder: Invasion into outer half of muscularis
propria.
5. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None identified.
6. Epithelial abnormalities in bladder: None identified.
7. Extension of tumor into organs adjacent to bladder: No adjacent organs
involved.
8. Surgical margins: Free of tumor.
9. Lymph nodes: 0 of 20 lymph nodes contain metastatic tumor;
10. Other pathologic findings in bladder: None identified.
11. AJCC/UICC stage: pT2bNOMx.

Interoperative Diagnosis:
E‘Sl (A) Right distal ureteral margin, biopsy: No tumor seen. -
“I

«‘1'

F52 (B) Left distal ureteral margin, biopsy: No tumor seen. 4.

Final Diagnosis:
A. Right distal ureteral margin, excision: No tumor.

B. Left distal ureteral margin, excision: No tumor.

C. Bladder. uterus, adnexae, en—bloc resection:
«Bladder: Invasive urothelial carcinoma, highwgrade, invading
muscularis propria; negative surgical margins; see
comment.
—Endometrium: Atrophic.
‘Myometrium: No significant pathologic abnormality.
—Uterine serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.
~Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.
~Ovaries: Inclusion cysts.
-Tubes: No significant pathologic abnormality.

D. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/10).

      
 

E. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/10).
7u'nar
\PAA

  
     
 

F. Distal left ureter, resection: No tumor.

use is ‘

eviewev Reviewed-

   

