i Qb— 0/3 ,
WM: CW0)“, peg/luv; MMW 9340/3
CQDCF'. QW‘ empilimiq, WWWNA lama/3
Sta-.Wmvwvs ova-9 Ar «(pa/u

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient

Name: Accession it:
MRN: Service: / Collected:
DOB: \ﬁsit #: Received:
Gender: F Location: Reported:
HCN: Facilitye’

Ordenng

MD:

Copy To:

 

S eclm n 3 Re iv
1. Thyroid: left thyroid; stitchA‘narks upper pole

". = == = 5‘: “‘“=:=”'=:=:='==‘
Diagnosm -

Papillary carcinoma, mixed solid and follicular variant with oncocytic change, 2.5 cm; mild nodular
hyperplasia: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, isthmic

' Left hemithyrmdectomy spectmen UUID:008732FA-8E66-4C50-BIB-7882000097

 

TCGA-EM-A223-01A-PR Redacted
_L_P_.__S no he Data IlllllliIlliIillllllillllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllil

Procedure. Left hemnhymidectomy IllIllllllllllllllllllHilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Received, Fresh Ill llllillillliHlllllllllilillllllllllllllliillililillllillllll
Specimen integrity: Fragmented . - . _- " '
Specimen Size: Left lobe:

3.9 cm

3.0 cm

3.0 cm

Isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:

1.8 cm . » '

8; gm 19w 7—55 ,r_ alama, Tacit» W is
Specimen Weight: 18.2 g (00 2 WNW W‘
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
--------------- DOMINANTJUMOR - - - - - - ~ - - - - - -- /"
Tumor Laterality: Leﬂlobe
Tumor Size: Featest dimension: 2.5cm

Additional dimension: 2.5 cm
Additional dimension: 2.5 cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, fguicular variant
Papillary carcinoma, oncocytic or oxyphilic variant
Papillary carcinoma, solid variant

Follicular architecture

Solid architecture

Classical cytomorphology

Oncocytic or oxyphilic cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Cannot be assessed

Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Present, extent minimal

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identified

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm, but not more than 4 cm, limited
to thyroid

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenomatoid nodule(s) or Nodular follicular disease

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

M

The tumor is a mixed solidand follicular _yaria‘ntl_papillary carcinoma with oncocytic change. The
tumor reaches at several points the painted surgical'margins; hOWever, the outer surface of the
left lobe is not received intact. Therefore, the surgical margins cannot be assessed properly.
There is single cell necrosis in some regions of the tumor, but these areas are associated with
sites of degeneration. Therefore, there is no unequivocal evidence of dedifferentlation in this

tumor.

Electronically
veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical H' to

Thyroid nodule
Gr s De rl l n

The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as ”left thyroid stitch marks upper pole",
consists of a one hemithyroidectomy specimen that weighs 18.2 g. The left lobe capsule is not
received intact. The lobe measures 3.9 cm Si x 3.0 cm ML x 3.0 cm AP and the isthmus
measures 1.8 Si x 0.5 cm ML x 0.7 cm AP. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identiﬁed
grossly. The left lobe contains one well delineated nodule that measure 2.5 cm Si x 2.5 cm ML x
2.5 cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is grossly unremarkable. Two sections of nodule
and one piece of normal tissue from the isthmus are stored frozen. The remainder of the
specimen is submitted as follows:
1A-R Left lobe, superior to inferior

1E-F, H-l, K-L, N-O, P-Q: one piece bisected in each set of blocks
18 isthmus

 

