Collection—Date:—
i-lospitat of Origin: '
Copy tr . ‘

 

QC Pathotogist:

FINAL PATHOLOGiC DIAGNOStS:

A. Lymph nodes. level 7. excision:

Negative for malignancy, two nodes.

B. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:

Tumor Characteristics: .

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

, Histologic grade: 3 (poorly differentiated).

Tumor site: Subpleural.

. Tumor focality: Unifocal

. Tumor size: 5 x 5 x 3 cm .

Visceral pleural invasion: not identiﬁed ’1,

. Lymphovascular space invasion: not identified ‘
Surgical Margin Status: 1"
1. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 3.0 cm.

2. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: 1.0

cm (grossly); microscopically, malignancy is present in and

around an immediately adjacent bronchus (see comment).

3. Tumor distance from pleural surface: 0.1 cm.

Lymph Node Status:

’1. Total number of lymph nodes received: (includes parts 1

and 3): Eleven.

2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic

carcinoma: Zero.

Other:

1. Other signiﬁcant findings: A microscopic focus of

invasive carcinoma, associated with bronchial squamous cell

carcinoma in situ, is present in the section taken

immediately adjacent to the stapled parenchymal margin (see

comment).

A resectect segment of rib is histologicaily unremarkable, ‘ x,-

with hematopoietic bone marrow and no evidence of primary or

metastatic malignancy.

One hilar lymph node demonstrates a small, hyalinized, — ,.
dystrophicly calciﬁed and inactive granuioma (see comment). ‘ ‘

upmegomr-x

2. pTNM stage: pTZaNO.
C. Lymph nodes. level 4R, excision:
Negative for malignancy. two small nodes. _ ,, _7 _,

 

 

 

 

COMMENTS: ‘
Histologic sections demonstrate a poorly differentiated
malignancy, with extensive necrosis. Focally. convincing
squamous differentiation is noted. No gland formation is ‘
appreciated. The malignancy focally extends to immediately
beneath the surface of the visceral pleura. Areas of
adhesion between visceral and parietal pleura are noted, and
some portions of parietal pleura are present for evaluation.
These are uninvolved by the malignancy, as is the resected
segment of rib.
The histologic appearance of localized squamous
differentiation corresponds to changes noted in a prior fine
needle aspiration biopsy, No history of
intervening treatment is received, however, the focally
extensive necrosis in the malignancy could be the result of
intervening treatment, and clinical correlation is;
suggested. Bronchial and vascular margins are free of
malignancy grossly and microscopically as are lymph nodes.
There is, however, ihvoivement of a bronchus at the stapled
margin by both in situ, and focally invasive, carcinoma.
Clinical correlation is suggested.
The granuloma present in one node appears inactive, and
special stains for microorganisms will not be performed a
this time, unless requested.
Sections have also been reviewed by Dr . who is in

agreement.

CLINlCAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: .year old female with right lung
cancer

Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Level 7 lymph nodes

B. Right upper lobe with rib

C. 4R lymph node

CODES:

 

PROCEDURAL DEMOGRAPHICS:
Date of Procedure:
Accession DatelTime:

  
 

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: -

A. The first containerA is labeled level 7
lymph nodes. The specimen consists of two brown tan
anthracotic nodules consistent with lymph nodes measuring
0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm and 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is
entirely submitted in a single cassette .! , ,

B. The second container B is labeled _ right
upper lobe with rib. The specimen consists of a lung

 

1t'.’

 

.jz,

 

~‘ lobectomy specimen with attached 1...,measuring 13.0 £120 x . , " '
5.0 cm and weighs 179 grams. The pleural surface is gray to , - . , year.
If

brown tan and slightly anthracrrtic. There is an area of _
slight puckering of the pleural surface. The pleural

_i__

surface has been inked black. The resected soft tissue . ~

margin of the attached rib has been inked blue. On
sectioning the cut surface of the lung reveals a gray tan
anthracotic mass measuring 5.0 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm that is within
0.1 cm of the pleural margin and is 3.0 cm of the bronchial
margin of resection and 1.0 cm from the closest stapled
edge. The mass displays central area of necrosis. The ‘
section of the rib measures 6.0 x 2.0 cm. On sectioning the
cut surface of the rib is red tan. The rib overlies the

mass. The mass does not appear to invade through the
pleural Surface. The mass comes within 1.5 cm of the
resected surface of the rib and soft tissue. Therib is
loosely attached to the pleural surface by soft tissue that
appears unremarkable. The surrounding lungtissue is red to
gray tan and spongy. There are no other lesions identiﬁed.
On sectioning through the peribronchial soft tissue reveals
five probable lymph nodes measuring from 0.2 to 0.7 cm.
Received with the specimen are three cassettes, one green,
one yellow, and one blue) labeled— Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes as follows:
rib margins after decalciﬁcation-—1; l'tb in relationship to

the mass after decalciﬁcation—-2; sections from the mass—B
to 6; bronchial and vascular margin-J; shave section from
the stapled margin—43; surrounding uninvolved lung—9;
peribronchial lymph nodes submitted in toto as follows: four
probable nodes-~10; one probable node bisected-41.

C. The third container C is labeled , 4R lymph
node. The specimen consists of two pieces of yellow tan
soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm and 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2

11‘

 

cm, entirely submitted in a single cassegg 7 , , _ _ a .

 

FULL RESULT:
Single view chest

indication: Right pneumothorax.

Findings: There is a new right chest tube. Vascular calciﬁcations are
noted. New patchy densities are seen in the right lung. Patient may have
undergone right resection. Clinical correlation is recommended. 1 do not
identify an endotracheal tube. No focal inﬁltrates on the left. There is

a lucency in the right hemithorax. I cannot exclude pneumothorax.

IMPRESSION:

Right chest tube. Possible anterior right pneumothorax. Patchy
atelectasis right lung. Possible postoperative change right lung.
Correlation with any recent surgery-is recommended. ‘

 

 

