 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

COPY To: —

Pre-Op Diagnosis

Nothing indicated

Post~0p Diagnosis

Nothing indicated

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Received in a single container labeled "_— right colon"

is a previously opened portion of large bowel including cecum, as
well as cm of previously opened portion of terminal ileum. The
specimen is received after formalin ﬁxation and shows the large
bowel to measure 20.6 cm and the ileum to be 9.4 cm. The specimen is
covered by a moderate amount of pericolic and epiploic adipose
tissue in which an 8.0 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm grossly unremarkable vermiform
appendix is identiﬁed. The visible serosa is shaggy gray ten to
brown. The wall is up to 0.6 cm edematcus and ﬁbrotic. The lumen
is lined by gray—tan mucosa with preservation of intestinal folds.
Noted within the cecal pouch extending to the ileocecal valve is a
4.6 x 3.0 cm centrally ulcerated ﬁnely granular tan-gray to pink
lesion with raised rolled borders. This is stated during specimen
opening to be noted at its nearest point 26 cm from the distal
margin and 14 cm from the proximal margin. This has a gritty gray
tan iibrotic cut surface measuring up to 1.9 cm in thickness. This
grossly extends focally through the muscularis into the surrounding
adipose tissue where it is seen at its nearest point 0.7 cm from the
nearest outer margin. In addition, in one area the lesion

umbilicates to the seros'a and grossly appears to extend through the
serosa. No other gross lesions are identified. On sectioning. the
surrounding adipose tissue shows several well deﬁned and poorly
deﬁned gray tan nodules measuring up to 1.2 cm in greatest
dimension. The largest nodules have ﬁbrotic necrotic cut surfaces.
Also received in the same container are three tissue cassettes each

 

 

labeled W Representative sections are submitted
labeled as . - l margin; B - distal margin; 0-
ileocecal valve; D-G - representative lesion and surrounding tissue;

H - random uninvolved bowel; l - appendix; J-L - representative

sections of grossly positive nodules; M-N - whole smaller pericoiic
nodules.

Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled —are examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Distal ileum and right colon (right hemicclectomy):

Distal ileum:

No pathologic diagnosis. PAS 1

Right colon:

Tumor characteristics:

Hlstologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Location of tumor: Cecal pouch.

Size: 4.6 x 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Grade: Moderately differentiated.

Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes.

Perforation of Visceral peritoneum: Yes (see comment).

Presence of mesenteric deposits: No.

Depth of invasion: Carcinoma extends through muscularis propria
into subsercsal adipose tissue and focally perforates visceral
peritoneum to involve serosal surface focally.

Surgical Margin Status:

Proximal Margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed.

Distal Margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed.

Deep Radial Margin: Carcinoma focally perforated visceral
peritoneum to involve serosal surface focally (see comment).
Distance of tumor from closet margin: See above diagnoses.

Lymph Node Status:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 17

Total number of lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma: 11
(1 1/17) PAS 9 ,

Appendix:

Fibrous obliteration of the luminal tip, no carcinoma identiﬁed.
PAS 4 SPC-A

CPT: 88309
Stage: pT4aN2bVL (see comment)

Comments

Grossly in one area, the lesion umbilicated to the serosa and

grossly appears to extend through the serosa. Microscopically,
carcinoma is present focally extending through the visceral
peritoneum to focally involve the serosal surface. Therefore, this

is staged as pT4a. Eleven of 17 lymph nodes demonstrate metastatic
carcinoma. Some of the nodes are completely replaced by carcinoma
with no residual nodal tissue identified. These are counted as lymph
nodes totally replaced by tumor. Therefore, this is staged as a

pN2b. in addition. lymphcvascular space invasion is identified and

the additional classiﬁcations of VL are therefore used. The ﬁnal

stage should be performed in conjunction with knowledge of the
clinical stage.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have

 

been additionally reviewed by Dr._ who concurs with the
diagnosis.

 

 

