TCGA —AF-—2692

 

SPECIMEN
A. Right uterine adnexa
B. Sigmoid and upper half rectum
C. Appendix

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectosigmoid cancer

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Ovary, right, resection: Muci ' . Negative
for malignancy on frozen section.

  

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received unfixed labelled "right
uterine adnexa" and consists of a pink uterine tube
measuring 4 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. There is adjacent
tan ovary measuring 2.5 x 1.3 cm with a contained cyst measuring

cm in diameter. The cyst contains green mucoid material. No
papillations or solid areas are seen. A portion of the cyst wall
is
taken for frozen section diagnosis as requested. Additional
sections after fixation. RS-6.
B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled ”sigmoid and
upper half of rectum and consists of a segment of large
bowel measuring 24 cm. in length and 2.2 cm. in diameter. The
peritoneal reflection is present and is 3.7 cm. from the distal
stapled margin. The external surface of the rectal portion of the
specimen is inked. The rectal resection specimen is complete and
has a smooth surface. There is abundant pericolonic fat and the
entire specimen is up to 8.5 cm. in diameter. The specimen will be
opened on the antimesenteric surface to harvest tissue for
research.
There is a fungating red tumor on the mucosal surface on the
mesenteric side of the specimen measuring 3.5 x 3.7 x 1.7 cm. There
is a small white polyp proximal to the tumor measuring 0.4 cm. in
diameter to 0.7 cm. from the tumor. The fat from the tissue above

GROSS DESCRIPTION
the peritoneal reflection will be cleared. The tumor itself is just
below the peritoneal reflection. On cut section the gross tumor is
2.5 cm from the rectal margin radially.

 

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 & 2 ~ Margins of resection; 3u5 ~ tumor; 6 & 7 H
rectal lymph nodes; 8—17 — pericolonic lymph nodes.
C. The specimen is received in formalin labeled
"appendix”
and consists of a white appendix measuring 5 x 0.5 x 0.4
cm. with a small amount of adherence mesoappendix measuring 4 x 0.5
x 0.2 cm. RS—2 The tip of the appendix on the proximal end are in

block #1.

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Benign mucinous cyst adenoma is present.
B. Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma. There is some
mucinous differentiation (less than 50%).
Tumor grade: 1H2 out of3
Tumor size: 3.7 x 3.5 x 1.7 cm
Distance to nearest margin: I didn‘t measure this,
but
examination of the dissected specimen shows the distance to be at
least 3.5 cm.
Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates through
the
muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue.
Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy
Vascular invasion: Absent
Host response: Mild chronic inflammation
Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of
malignancy in any of 12 pericolonic lymph nodes.
Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent
pTNM Stage: T3 N0

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Other findings: None

 

DIAGNOSIS
A. Ovary, right, resection: Benign mucinous cystadenoma.

B. sigmoid, upper half of rectum, segmental resection:
Colonic adenocarcinoma of the rectum.

Note: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into

perirectal soft tissue. The margins of resection are negative
for malignancy. There is no evidence of malignancy in
any of 12 pericolonic lymph nodes.

C. Appendix, resection: Fibrous obliteration of the distal
appendiceal lumen.

 

 

