 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT COLON" {44 cm}:
ADENOCARCINOMA,.moderately differentiated (3.0 cm).
Tumor is located in the cecum, forms a polypoid mass,
and is ulcerative.
Tumor invades into but not through the muscularis propria.
Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative
for tumor.
Intramural lymphovascular invasion is not identified.
Perineural invasion is not identified.
Peritumoral response is mild.
Residual adenoma is present.
Hyperplastic polyps,

Multiple {>5} adenomata.
Lipoma of ileocecal valve.
Fat necrosis, with dystrophic calcifications (“peritoneal mass").
Regional lymph nodes {positive:total]: 0:13-
AJCC Classification (6th Edition): T2 N0 MX.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Biopsy-proven cecal cancer-
Operation: Right colectomy.

Operative Findings: Localized colon cancer.
Clinical Diagnosis: Colon cancer.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:

M1) right colon -

0.R- CONSULTATION:
SPECIMEN LABELED "#1 e RIGHT COLON" (GROSS ONLY):
Cecal mass (3.0 cm) located 16.0 cm from proximal and 43 cm from distal

resection margins, grossly.

The senior physician certifies that he/she personally conducted a gross and/or
microscopic examination of the described specimen(s} and rendered or confirmed
the rapid diagnostes) related thereto.

GROSS DESCRIPTION: .

The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patients name, unit number,
and "#1 — right colon", and consists of one ileocolectomy specimen (measuring
44 cm in total length) comprised of ileum (14.8 cm in length x 1.8 cm in
diameter} with proximal stapled resection margin measuring 2.9 cm and inked
blue, and colon (42.8 cm in length x 5—5.5 cm in diameter) with distal stapled
resection margin (measuring 6.2 cm and inked green]. There is an attached
fragment of yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue consistent with omentum,
measuring 25.0 x 11.0 x 1 cm. The appendix is absent. The serosa has a
nodular puckered area measuring 2.5 x 1.5 cm. which is inked black. The
specimen is opened (where inked orange) to reveal an ulcerated mass measuring
3.0 x 2.5 x 0.4 cm in the cecum, which is located 16.0 cm from the proximal
stapled resection margin, 43 cm from the distal stapled resection margin, and

”if.

”3!

 

(5%

 

 

