/C,A~d’3

WWW, Wan-IX, Nos 9386/3
Jib : WM 65% /

 

V/a‘u/n %
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
mu lllllﬁlllillﬁlllllllllllllllllllli sﬁgda‘tw
Gender: F llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllylllllllllullllllllll”llI"

Ill llllllllllliillillllll ll lllllll l lllllllll i ll“ ll llllllllllllllI

 

Sgecimenis) Received

1. Uterus: CERVIX, BlLATERAL OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES
2. Lymph node: Rt pelvic nodes

3. Lymph node: Lt external iliac nodes

4. Lymph node: Lt obturator nodes

5. Lymph node: Para-aortic nodes

 

Diagnosis

1. Uterus, cervix , bilateral ovaries & fallopian tubes:

Uterusaﬁ. W : . ,
iéﬁdomeﬁ‘faladbnooafoimmaendemmtxpa Flee gréag’al3'w

— Invasion into inner half of myometrium '

- Positive for involvement of cervix

- Extensive lymphovascuiar space invasion

- Vaginal cuff: negative for carcinoma

- Background endometrium: inactive

- Others: Ieiomyoma, adenomyosis

PLEASE SEE COMMENT and SYNOPTIC REPORT

Right ovary: negative for tumor
Right fallopian tube: negative for tumor

Left ovary: negative for tumor
Left fallopian tube: chronic salpingitis

2. Lymph nodes, Right pelvic:
Nine lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/9)

3. Lymph nodes, left external iliac:
Six lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/6)

 

4. Lymph nodes, left obturator:

Four lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/4)

5. Lymph nodes, Para-aortic:
Eleven lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/11)

Synogtic Data

Specimen Type (3): Total Hysterectomy, Left ovary, Right ovary, Left fallopian
tube, Right fallopian tube, Other: Lymph nodes

Tumor Site: Location(s): Anterior and posterior endometrial cavity

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.6 cm

Other Organs Present: Lymph nodes

Histologic Type: Endﬁovrrjeti_'ionid_:_:;_denocvggrgjﬂgrit-:35L not otherwise characterized

Histologic Grade: G3: More than 50% nonsquamous solid growth

Myometriai invasion: inner half invasion

Cervix Involvement: Mucosal involvement

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Present

Nodal involvement: None

Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT2a (llA): Endocervical glandular involvement only

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 30
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0

 

Distant Metatstais (pM): pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: adenomyosis, Ieiomyoma
Comment

Tumor has two different patterns. In the better differentiated areas it forms tubuloglandular
structures while in the other areas it has a solid pattern with high~grade cytologic atypia and an
undifferentiated appearance and this solid component is more than 50% of the tumor. There is
extensive lymphovascuiar space involvement within myometrium. The tumor within vascular
spaces has the undifferentiated morphology.

lmmunohistochemistry staining reveals positive staining of tumor cells in the glandular areas for
estrogen receptor (ER) and focally progesterone receptor (PR). ER and PR are negative in the
solid component. P53, synaptophysin and chromogranin markers also appear negative.

Electronically
veriﬁed by:

Clinical History
ENDOMETRlAL CA

Gross Descrigtion

The specimen labeled the patient's name and as" uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes",
consists of a 92.2 g, 8.3 SI x 4.2 ML x 3.3 AP hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen,
received fresh. Vaginal cuff is present posteriorly and measures 2 cm x 0.5 cm, painted with India ink.
The exocervix measures 2.5 cm in maximum diameter. The external os is slit like and measures 0.4 cm in
diameter. The endocervical canal measures 2.0 cm in length. The uterine cavity measures 4.0 x 2.0 cm.
The endometrium measures 0.5 cm in thickness and has a dull and irregular granular surface posteriorly.
section for tumor bank is taken. The anterior endometrium has a polypoid mass measuring 3.6 cm
Slx1.7cm ML. There is intramural ieiomyoma measuring 0.8cm in diameter. The myometrium has a
maximum thickness of 1.3 cm. The serosa is smooth anteriorly and has some adhesions in lower part. It is a
piece all of fat attached to the anterior serosal surface measuring 2 x 1.5 x 1 cm, it is painted Silver nitrate.
There is a subserosal Ieiomyoma on the posterior wall near fundus measuring 1.8 x 1 cm. The right
fallopian tube measures 6.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The right ﬁmbria received in separate
container and measures 1.5xl.2x0.3cm. The right ovary measures 2.8 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and is grossly
unremarkable. Sections are taken for biobank . The left fallopian tube measures 6.5 cm in length x 0.4 cm
in diameter. The fimbriated end is received in a separate container and measures 1.6x1 .4x0.3cm. The left
ovary measures 3.2 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm and is grossly unremarkable. Sections are sampled for tissue banking.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

1A-1C biobank

1D vaginal cuff

1E Anterior exo and endo cervix

1F anterior LUS

lG posterior endo and exo cervix

1H posterior LUS and endometrium

ll-lK full thickness section posterior endomyometrium

1L-1 M full thickness posterior endomyometrium

1N longitudinal section through cervix and endometrial canal

1O ieiomyoma

1P intramural ieiomyoma
1Q-1W polypoid lesion on anterior endometrium in toto(1V,1W contain adhered fat)
1X remaining serosal fat
1Y granular endometrium
12 normal endometrium
1AA-1AC right ovary
1AD right fimbria

1AE right fallopian tube
1AF-1 AH left ovary

1A1 left fimbria

1AJ left fallopian tube

2. Specimen container is labeled with patient information and as “right pelvic nodes” consist of
fibrofatty tissue measuring 4 cm x 2.5 cm x 0.6 cm. it contains a lymph node measuring 0.6 x 0.5
x 0.5 cm

2A one lymph node bisected

23- ZC remaining fat

3. Specimen container is labeled with patient formation and as “left external iliac lymph nodes"
consist of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3 cm by 1.5 x 1 cm. it contains multiple lymph nodes the
largest measures 1.5 x 0.7 by 0.5 cm and the smallest measure is 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.3 cm.

3A one lymph node bisected

SB-three lymph nodes

3C-one bisected lymph node

SD-remaining fat

4. Specimen container is labeled with patient and formation and as left obturator lymph nodes
consist of fatty tissue measuring in to centimeter by 1.5 cm x 0.4 cm containing one lymph node
measuring 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.

4A-one lymph node

4B-remaining fat

5. The container is labeled with patient formation and as paraaortic nodes consist of two
fragments of fibrofatty tissue measuring 5 cm by 2.4 x 0.5 cm and 1.5 x 1.6 by 0.4 cm. it and is
much enforce the largest one measuring 2 cm x 1 cm x 0.5 cm. The smallest lymph node
measures 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.

5A-lymph node bisected

5B-two lymph nodes

SC- 50 remaining adipose tissue

 

