‘
UUID: 92332E01- 96A1- 4399- 8348- E670E8A§7CE9 W W
TCGA- F1- A72C- -a1A- PR acted /
III III II I III III I ”II | IIIIIIIII I “IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII”HIRIHIHIaI I" W 8/4443

IIIIIIIII IIIIlIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Case Number: 5,412; Wit/054’?

gm v/a/zs
Diagnosis:

A: Distal stomach with prior gastrojejunostomy, resection
Histologic tumor type/subtype: Invasive moderately
differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma, intestinal type

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated (G2)

Tumor location: Distal stomach associated with surgical
anastomosis site

Treatment effect: N/A

Tumor Size/Depth of invasion: Maximum tumor size 5.9 x 3.6 x 2.4
cm by gross examination; tumor invades subserosal soft tissues
without involvement of visceral peritoneum

Lymphovascular invasion: Focally present

Perineural invasion: Focally present

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: All surgical
resection margins are negative; distance to closest margin 1.3
cm from proximal small bowel margin by gross examination
Proximal surgical margin: Negative

Distal surgical margin: Negative

Radial (adventitial) margin: Negative

Lymph nodes: No tumor seen in 9 lymph nodes in this specimen
(0/9); total lymph node count inclusive of specimens A and C is
no tumor seen in 13 lymph nodes (0/13)

Size of largest nodal metastasis (greatest dimension): N/A
Presence/absence of extranodal extension: N/A

Other significant findings: Chronic active gastritis; intestinal
metaplasia; intact surgical anastomosis with multifocal suture

granulomata

AJCC Pathologic Staging: pT3 pNO

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen
and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

B: Omentum, omentectomy
— Benign omentum with no tumor seen.

C: Lymph nodes, left gastric, regional resection
No tumor seen in four lymph nodes (0/4).
Sutured granulomata identified.

I

Comment:
The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

A frozen section is requested by Dr. in OR at

FSAl/FSAZ: Stomach, proximal margin, en face

— Gastric mucosa with chronic gastritis and patchy intestinal
metaplasia, no tumor seen

Drs. on at

Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:

The patient is a —year—old man with gastric cancer at
anastomosis. The patient is status post previous Billroth II
gastrectomy approximately years ago for ulcer.

Gross Description:
Specimen A is received is one appropriately labeled container,
labeled "distal stomach with prior gastrojejunostomy".

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Partial gastrectomy with a porton of small
bowel

Size of specimen: Stomach: 9.9 cm long x 21.6 cm in
circumference, small bowel: 5.3 cm long x 9.6 cm in
circumference.

Orientation of specimen: The proximal gastric margin is marked
with a suture=green. The distal small bowel margin 2 black. The

proximal small bowel staple line=blue. Where the frozen section
was taken = yellow. The area where the radial margin was taken :
red. Serosa overlying the mass=black.

Tumor size: 5.9 x 3.6 x 2.4 cm.

Tumor description: The mass is firm, fungating with heaped
borders and central ulceration. The cut surface is tan/white,
firm, and smooth, with infiltrative component extending into
subserosal soft tissue.

Location of tumor: Surrounding the anastomotic staple line,
involving the stomach and small bowel.

Depth of invasion: The mass invades through the muscularis
propria into the mesentery.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: Radial margin 1.7 cm,
proximal gastric margin—2.5 cm, distal small bowel margin 2 cm,
and proximal small bowel margin 1.3 cm.

Description of remainder of tissue: At the anastomotic line, 5.0
cm from the mass is 4.5 x 1.2 cm x 0.5 cm area of raised, tan,
firm mucosa. The remainder of the gastric mucosa is tan, smooth
and glistening. The remainder of the small bowel mucosa is
tan/brown and exhibits normal intestinal folding. The serosa is
tan, smooth and glistening.

Tissue submitted for specimen investigations: Yes, tumor and
normal

Lymph nodes: 14 lymph node candidates are identified in the
perigastric fat ranging from 0.2 to 1 cm in greatest dimension.
16 lymph node candidates are identified in the subserosal
anastomotic fat ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension.

Other attached structures: N/A

Other comments: None

Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

FSAl — Stomach, proximal margin en face closest to mass

FSAZ — Stomach, proximal margin en face closest to mass
A3—A4 - Additional proximal margin, en face

C

A5-A6

— Distal margin, en face

A7 — Proximal small bowel margin, en face

A8 - Mesenteric margin, en face

A9-A10 - Deepest invasion of mass, bisected, perpendicular
A11 - Additional deepest invasion of mass, perpendicular
A12 - Mass in relation to normal stomach

A13 — Mass in relation to normal intestine

A14 - Nodularity along anastomotic line

A15 - Multiple lymph node candidates

A16 — Four perigastric lymph node candidates

A17 — Four perigastric lymph node candidates

A18 — Six anastomotic site lymph node candidates

A19 - Six anastomotic site lymph node candidates

A20 — Four anastomotic site lymph node candidates

Specimen B is labeled with the patient' 5 name and "omentum" and
is a 29.8 x 10.9 x 2.5 cm portion of yellow lobulated adipose
tissue. There are no areas of fibrosis or gross lesions noted.
Representative sections are submitted in block Bl.

Specimen C is labeled with the patient' 8 name and "left gastric
lymph nodes" and is a 5.5 x 3.9 x 2 cm portion of tan/yellow
fibroadipose tissue. Six lymph nodes are identified ranging in
size from 0.5 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension.

The remaining fibroadipose tissue is retained in the container.

Block Summary:

Cl - One lymph node, serially sectioned
C2 — One lymph node, serially sectioned
C3 — Four lymph node candidates

   
 

E .
_ szuAnElg'u'"

