UUID:DBSSABFVAF--75306-4EF3-I\923-29C61IC6R23e5§Bac.t d

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII e
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII II III

III IIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIlIII|I||||IIIIIIIIIIIIII||II||IIIIIII|I

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left pelvic lymph node, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/ 1); see
comment.

B. Right pelvic lymph node, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/1); see
comment.

C. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identiﬁed in ten lymph nodes (0/ 10).

D. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: Metastatic carcinoma in four of eight lymph
nodes (4/8); see comment.

E. Bladder neck, biopsy: Micro-focus of carcinoma involving muscular tissue.

F. Prostate, prostatectomy:

l. Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 5+4, with extracapsular extension, and
focally present at right bladder margin.
2. Seminal vesicle with no tumor.

G. Left urethral margin, biopsy: Benign ﬁbromuscular tissue, no tumor identified.

i-l. Right urethral margin apex, biopsy: Benign ﬁbromuscular tissue, no tumor
identified.

COMMENT:

Synoptic Comment for Prom: Tumors

1. Type of tumor: Small acinar adenocarcinoma.

2. Location of tumor: Right and left apex, slides ’F1. F2; right anterior quadrant, slides F3-F5; right

(W inmate was
och yaw N03 “"7
)Z'vtj/17/2Lf

posterior quadrant, slides F6-F9; left posterior quadrant, slides Flo-F13; left anterior quadrant.
slide F15; right and left bladder margins, slides Fl7-F18.

Estimated volume of tumor: Approximately 90% of prostate is involved by tumor. The prostate volume
is 113 cubic cm; 90% of this is the estimated volume of tumor, which is 102 cubic cm.

Gleason score: Primary pattern 5, secondary pattern 4.

Estimated volume > Gleason pattern 3: 85%.

Involvement of capsule: Tumor invades capsule.

Extraprostatic extension: Present, extensive.

Status of excision margins for tumor: Tumor extends to inked excision margin at the right bladder
margin, slide F17.

Status of excision margins for benign prostate glands: No benign glands present at inked excision
margin.

9. Involvement of seminal vesicle: Not present.

10. Perineural infiltration: Present.

1 l. Prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN): Present. (

l2. AJCC/UICC stage: at least T3aNlMX; however, specimen E, which was submitted as 'bladder neck,"

contains a micro-focus of carcinoma. Histologically, this micro-focus of carcinoma involves muscular

tissue. No urothelial mucosa is present in the specimen. By morphology, we cannot determine whether the

carcinoma is involving the stroma of bladder neck or the stroma of the prostate. Clinical correlation is

suggested.

9"

97'???

 

Specimen(s) Received
AzLefl: pelvic lymph node (FS)
B:Right pelvic lymph node (FS)
C:Leﬂ: pelvic lymph nodes
D:nght pelvic lymph nodes
E:Bladder neck

F:Prostate (fresh)

G:Left urethral margin

I-lzkight urethral margin/apex

Intraoperative Diagnosis

FSl (A) Left pelvic lymph node, biopsy: Metastatic prostate carcinoma. M
F82 (8) Right pelvic lymph node, biopsy: Metastatic prostate carcinoma. “

Clinical "late
The patient is a with prostate carcinoma.

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh in eight parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is additionally labeled '1. left pelvic lymph node." It consists of a single ﬁrm, oval, pink-tan
candidate lymph node, measuring 2.3 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is bisected, and one-half is submitted
for frozen section diagnosis as FSl, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Al. From the

remaining unused portion, a piece is submitted for the The remainder of the tissue is
submitted in cassette A2.

Part B is additionally labeled “right pelvic lymph node." It consists of a single ﬁrm, oval, pink-tan candidate
lymph node, measuring 2.3 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is bisected, and one-half of the specimen is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F82, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette Bl.

From the remaining unused portion, a piece is saved for the The remaining tissue is
submitted in cassette B2.

Part C is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node.“ it consists of multiple fragments of tan—yellow soft

tissue measuring 4.2 x 2.8 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. The specimen is serially sectioned and searched for
lymph nodes. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

 

 

Cassette Cl: Multiple candidate lymph nodes.
Cassette C2: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Part D is additionally labeled “right pelvic lymph node." It consists of a single fragment of tan-yellow soft
tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative
sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette D1: Multiple candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette D2: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Part E is additionally labeled ”bladder neck.” it consists of a single fragment of tan-yellow, soft tissue
measuring 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette El.

Part F is additionally labeled "prostate." it consists of a prostate and attached seminal vesicle glands which
weigh 66 grams and measure 4.5 cm apex to base, 5.6 cm medial to lateral and 4.5 cm anterior to
posterior. The exterior gland is smooth, with multiple surgical clips. The seminal vesicles are soft and
tan-red. The left measures 3.2 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm and the right measures 3.2 x 1.6 x 0.4 cm. There are no
discrete palpable lesions noted on the surface of the gland. The right is inked green. The left is inked blue
and the posterior is inked black. The apical margin and bladder margins are removed. The specimen is
serially sectioned into eight slices. The cut surface reveals a tanmyellow, semi-porous parenchyma with a

vaguely nodular appearance. There is no one discrete dominant mass or nodule. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

Cassette Fl: Right apical margin, entirely submitted.
Cassette F2: Left apical margin, entirely submitted.
Right anterior quadrant

Cassette F3: Serial slice 2.
Cassette F4: Serial slice 4.
Cassette F5: Serial slice 7.

Right posterior quadrant

Cassette F6: Serial slice 2.
Cassette F7: Serial slice 4.
Cassette F8: Serial slice 5.
Cassette F9: Serial slice 8.

Left posterior quadrant

Cassette F10: Slice 3.

Cassette F11: Slice 5.

Cassette F12: Slice 6.

Cassette F13: Slice 8.

Left anterior quadrant

Cassette F14: Slice 2.

Cassette F15: Slice 5.

Cassette F16: Slice 7.

Cassette F17: Right bladder margin
Cassette F18: Left bladder margin.
Cassette F19: Right seminal vesicle.
Cassette F20: Left seminal vesicle.

Part G is additionally labeled "left urethral margin." it consists of a single fragment of unoriented,

tan-brown soft tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm in diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted in
cassette G 1.

Part H is additionally labeled ”right urethral margin apex." It consists of a single fragment of unoriented,
tan-brown soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette H1.

Diagnosis based on gross anId microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist l. . I
following review of all patho slides. , ,, . ."
OQY f/UWWI ad's-J K’Il I 1'

"

  
    
 
   
 
 
   

Electronically sir , [I

HIPM
Prior

  

Case is
Re viewer

  
    
 

Reviewed:

