  
   

_ _ athoiogy Report

 

amp-J. u ‘)'.‘::l‘.), :th i’»‘7‘x'.\l .. you r -

Accession Number: m Report Status: Amend/A
Type: Surgical Pathology

Specimen Type:
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

CASE : m-
PATIENT .- m

artial or total resection

 

0131'. **********k

CGA— CZ — 4863

    

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED yIEFT KIDNEY":

{RENAL CELL CARCINOMA,3blear cell type (7.5 cm), Fuhrman nuclear
grade III/IV.

Tumor extends into the perinephric adipose tissue.
Tumor extends into renal vein {to within 2 cm of vein margin).
Renal vein, artery, and ureteric margins are negative for tumor.
AJCC Classification (6th Edition): T313” no ax.
The evaluation of this biopsy included PAS and trichrome stains.

B. SRECIMEN DESIGNATED ”REGIONAL LYMPH NODES":
ffEleven lymph nodes, no tumor present (0:11).

CLINICAL '
History: female with incidental renal mass left 9 x 6 cm enhancing
—-> left 1y ro an cm lymph node.

Operation: Left radical nephrectomy.
Clinical Diagnosis: L renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
All) left kidney — #ls.
B/2) regional lymph nodes.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The Specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patients

name and unit number.

Part A is received fresh in the frozen section lab, labeled "#1 a L kidney",
and consists of a left radical nephrectomy Specimen (574 grams, 18.5 x 12.5 x 7
cm), to include left kidney (15 x 11 x 6.5 cm), ureter (6.5 cm in length x 0.6
cm in diameter), renal vein (1.4 cm in length x 0.8 cm in diameter), renal
artery (1.6 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter), and a moderate amount Of
attached perinephric fat. Definitive Gerota‘s fascia is not identified. The
outer surface is inked black and the Specimen is bivalved, revealing a
red/golden yellow, hemorrhagic, firm, fairly well circumscribed mass (7.5 x 6.5
x 6.1 cm) within the upper to mid—pole, focally protruding into the hilum,
extending into the renal vein, coming to within 2 cm of the renal vein margin,
2.5 cm of the renal artery margin, and 7.9 cm of the ureteral margin. The mass
grossly appears to invade the renal capsule but does not definitively extend
through into the perinephric fat; as a result, coming to within 0.2 cm of the
OVerlying black~inked soft tissue. The mass appears to extend into the renal
sinus, focally impinging upon the renal pelvis and calyceal system. The renal
parenchyma adjacent to the mesa is focally pale tan and discolored. The
corticomedullary junction is well—defined. Representative sections of the mass
{T1A — Tlc) are submitted to the Tissue Bank for special Studies. Adjacent
sections of tissue (corresponding to TlA — TlC) are submitted for quick fix.
Representative sections of the mass are submitted for cytogenetics, as well as
normal cortex, which are submitted for electron microscopy and
immunofluorescence. Photographs are taken. No lymph nodes are identified

within the attached perinephric fat.

Micro Al: ureter, renal vein and renal artery margins (en face), 3
frags, .
Micro A2+A3= renal mass in relationship to renal vein, renal artery, and

pelvis at hilum, 2 frags total,_
Minrn A4: renal mass in re ationship to pelvis/possible renal vein

   

Pathologyr Report ,

,pl, ..,

‘p_

involvement, 1 frag,- 1.“ area... “,3.

Micro AS-AT: renal mass at deep extension to include adjacent parenchyma

and renal sinus/hilar adipose tissue, 3 frags total,-

Idicro A8: corticomedullary junction and pelvis, l frag, -

Micro A9: "quick fix Tin", 1 frag, .

Micro A10: “quick fix TlB", l frag,

Micro A11: "quick fix T1C“, l frag, ,ﬂhm,‘w,uwp,h

a. " View" H"?
Part B, labeled "#2 1 regional lymph node“, and consists of a portion of yellow
lobulated adipose tissue (4.5 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm), within which multiple tan/pink
rubbery lymph nodes (ranging from 0.4 cm up to 1.9 cm in greatest dimension):

Micro Bl: five single whole lymph nodes, 5 frags
Micro B2: two single whole lymph nodes, 2 frags,
Micro 83: three single whole lymph nodes, 3 ﬁrag

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("grose only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)

related thereto.

 

ADDENDUM

RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF KIDNEY PARENCHYMA:
LEFT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

MILD CHRONIC CHANGES OF THE KIDNEY, WITH:
- FOCAL GLOBAL GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS (1.2% OF GLOMERULI):
- TUBULAR ATROPBY AND INTERSTITIAL FIBROSIS (LESS THAN 2% OF THE

PARENCHYMA):
- ARTERIAL AND ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS, MILD.

FOCAL CORTICAL SCAR, MOST LIKELY SECONDARY TO CHRONIC TUMOR-RELATED
VASCULAR COMPROMISE (SEE NOTE)

NOTE :
The sample of tissue chosen for evaluation of the kidney shows an area of focal

cortical atrophy and scarring, most likely the result of chronic vascular
compreseion by the large ipsilateral tumor. Features of obstructive uropathy
are not seen at this time despite the mild degree of hydronephrosis. The
remainder of the kidne arench a shows minimal chronic changes, within the
expected range for #woman. There is minimal focal global
glomerulosclerosis 1.2% o g omeruli), minimal tubular atr0phy and
interstitial fibrosis (less than 2% of the parenchyma), and a mild degree of
vascular sclerosis.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr— Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
Sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin—embedded tissue {block A8) were evaluated

using HE, PAS, Jones silver methenamine, and AFOG (trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of cortex and medulla. There are 333 glomeruli present, of
which 4 (1.2%) are globally sclerosed. The remaining glomeruli show no
significant expansion of the mesangial areas but are diffusely hypoperfused.
There are no discernible craters or double contours of the glomerular capillary
wall basement membranes. Less than 2% of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular
atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. Arteries exhibit a mild degree of

sclerosis.

The kidney cortex was also evaluated in block A? (HE). This sample comes from
an area of the kidney close to the tumor. There is prominent
“anmiVH1nqn1erosis and signs of hypoperfusion of glomeruli, a chronic

  

  
 
    
 

Pathology Report

interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, scattered tubular distention, and ma
cortical atrophy. Overt vascular damage is not seen in the arterial vessel
included in this sample.

    

{Clinical history: mild hydronephrosis, left renal mass}

Addendum #1 by

 

 

atllology Report .

n». W ”quanta-u. .rmv .- ”ﬁennrv-

 

Accession Number: W Report Status: Final
Type: Cytogeneticsh
CASE:

    
 

PATIENT:

Cytogeneticist:

KARYOTYPE: See below

METAPHASES COUNTED: 0 ANALYZED: 0 SCORED: O BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

No metaphases were available from this specimen, therefore the cytogenetic
analysis COuld not be performed.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
? Kidney tumor

 

