uuzo:esssetos-Eors-iass-Buss-errsA9171Ar3
TCGA-QR-A70E-91A—PR Redacted
l llllllllll

Illilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IlllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
illlilllllllllllilllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll

l
l

 

Surgical Patholom
Surgical Pathology
CASE NUMBER:

DIAGNOSIS: Adrenal gland. right, adrenalectdmy: Pheochromocytoma.
capsular or vascular invasion identified (see note).

NOTE: Tumor cells stain positively for chromcgranin and synaptophysin
and 8-100 immunostain highlights sustentacular cells. These findings
support the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.

lmmunoperoxidase and in-situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology. . They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
Thisiaboratory iscertiiiedunderthe Clinical‘Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

 

CLiNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Allocate Order to Protocol:
Brief Clinical History: pheo.
Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 — Yes.

PROCEDURE:
Pre—Operative Diagnosis: pheo.

Post~0perative Diagnosis: pheo.
Operative Findings: same.
SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND, RIGHT

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: Received fresh is a specimen labeled with the
patient's name. medical record number, and further speciﬁed "Right
Adrenal Gland", consisting of an adrenalectomy specimen weighing 21
grams and measuring 5.5 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm with associated fat measuring
3.5 x 2‘5 x 1.3 cm. There is an associated ovoid nodule measuring 2.5
x 2.0 x 20 cm. The nodule is inked in black and bisected to reveal a
fleshy maroon—tan cut surface. Gross photographs are taken.
Approximately 50% of the tissue from the center of the nodule is
procured for and a fragment of adipose tissue measuring
1,0 x 1.0 x 1,0 cm is procured for The remained of the
specimen is placed into formalin and submitted to pathology for

Final Results
Final

permanent processing, The precurement was performed and documented by

l. Received in is
a specrmen matcnrng the above description Representative sections of
the tumor and associated normal adrenal gland tissue are submitted for
permanent processing and the remainder of the tissue is returned to
formalin. Summary of cassettes is as follows:

Cassettes representative sections of tumor adjacent to
normal adrenal gland
Cassette normal adrenal gland

t, entitientiui i‘hitrcru iriiéirir;<it'i.9n. i. winnttiorimtl Iiiaciosriv; w prisiiﬁuicrl it},

Requested By:

V,,g‘ 3‘,s)t,, , ‘ g, n‘uﬁi
:itx, timid: 32 Kim; {ﬁlth i" »

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record“

 

‘ Surgicall’athologxlk 1" 1R I
ma esuts

Accessioned:
Final Report Signed Out:

<Resident Sig nature>

<Sic|n Om Dr Rinnnhwa)

Data Report Signed:

7/457
Cri‘ 95in: es No
Dxagnosus Ducrepagw m..- v

M
mamary Tumot Site Discrepancv
.WM.M_.
HWAA Dimepancy

    
 
 

”WV..-

 

 

P‘ ml Mahgnancv msmw

ou'.Pr.maryN
UAUHEU I DlaQUALIFIFD «v “w
W k _ FWWJ

W

 

_ 14.: , “”3.“ ~ '. ,r.) ‘ . -
t oujgwsafml {duuhl mmmmmu. Unawiiorrrcu {Mammy H prﬂhﬂﬂ x? in ém r3- ‘ » r; ”(in '1 ‘u; J" t')"
,_ ~\« svr!\\4\‘,£l' ‘rk‘ ( 2k; '«m

Requested By: '
Do not file in Medical Record

