UUID: GBFSFBDS- 6393- 4DA7- BB74- 7D587199D7FD
TCGA- A7- ABIY- 01A- PR

mmmmmmmmmmwmmmmmqmm
ﬂ

IWNIIHMI
Final Surgical Pathology Report

HI
iiihmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Breast, right, excisional biopsy: Invasive mucinous carcinoma,
Nottingham grade 1

Note: The inked margins are negative for malignancy. Carcinoma is
focally 0.3 mm from the superior margin.

B. Breast, right, new lateral margin, biopsy: Fibrocystic changes.
Negative for malignancy.

C. Sentinel lymph node, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy.

/c¢),.a c5
Microscopic Description: I I’
3" L’thhW “LL/WWI’YW" 5299575
Invasive carcinoma: 0‘
Histologic type: Mucinous carcinoma 51%;, ‘ M Na; C115 } ‘
Nottingham grade: 1 $4
Architectural score: 1 /Q/ ‘

Nuclear score: 1-2
Mitotic score: 1
Mitotic index: 1 mitoses/ 10 HPFs (1 HPF = 1.96 sq. mm)
Tumor size: 1.3 cm
Specimen margins: Negative for malignancy. Carcinoma is focally
0.3 mm from the yellow (superior) inked margin in block
Al.
Vessel invasion: Absent
Calcification: Absent

Non~tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes including apocrine
metaplasia, cyst formation, intraductal epithelial
hyperplasia without atypia, columnar metaplasia, benign
calcification and intraductal papilloma.

TNM stage: Tlc

Prognostic markers: See previous biopsy

B. sections of the right breast lateral margin specimens show focally
florid intraductal epithelial hyperplasia without atypia and other mild
fibrocystic changes. The specimen is negative for malignancy.

C. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.

[At the request of some staff oncologists and in keeping with the
opinion of some experts in breast pathology, immunohistochemical stains
for keratin were not used on the sentinel lymph node sections in this
case. These stains can be obtained if desired. Our paraffin blocks
are retained for 10 years. (Weaver DL et al. New Engl J Med 3642412,
2011. Schwartz GF et al. Cancer 94(10):2542, 2002)].

Specimen

A. Right breast tissue long lateral short superior
B. Right breast lateral margin

C. Sentinel lymph node

Clinical Information
Mucinous carcinoma

Gross Description

The specimen is received unfixed in a Transpec container labeled right
breast tissue long lateral short superior it consists of a yellow piece
of soft tissue measuring 6.3 by 4.6 cm. The external surface the
specimen is inked as indicated below.

Anterior: Red

Posterior: Orange

Lateral: Blue

Medial: Green

Superior: Yellow

Inferior: Black

There is a palpable mass in the specimen measuring 1.5 cm in diameter
the external palpation on cut section the mass 1.3 cm in diameter and
has a mucoid appearance. A portion of the tumor is taken for research
purposes. Sections after fixation. RSB

Received unfixed labeled right breast new lateral margin short anterior
long lateral is a piece of yellow and red soft tissue measuring 6.2 X
2.5 x 1 cm. The external surface the specimen is exhibited below.
Anterior: Red

Posterior: Orange

Lateral: Blue

Medial: Green

Superior: Yellow

Inferior: Black

Sections after fixation. RS7

Specimen C. is received in formalin labeled central lymph node and
consists of a piece of yellow soft tissue measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm.
AS-Z

cmem

Yumar Site
HIPM
Prior

(as! Is
Reviewev Innials Reviewed:

 

