 

 

 

Patient Results

uu10:424£sA32-Fazc-4337-3919-r7csr1212232
TceA-Hc-A4zv-a1A-PR RedaiI-Ited

llllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllll
llll'llllnlll”I'lll‘lullllllllllll illlillllllllllllllllll

 

 

hr" _. . -

 

 

Path Report
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ACCESSION NO. :
Final Diagnosis(es):
(A) Lymph node. left obturator, excision: Five lymph nodes
negative for metastasis (0/5).
(B) Lymph node. right obturator. excision: Eight lymph nodes
negative for metastasis (0/8).
(C) Right apical margin, excision:
l) Lymphoid and adipose tissue.
2) Negative for malignancy.
(D) Left apical margin, excision:
l) Fibrofatty tissue and skeletal muscle with hemorrhage.
2) No malignancy identified.
(E) Prostate and seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy:
1) Prostatlc adenocarcinoma.
2) Gleason sum score 5+4=9l10. ‘ .
3) Greater than 90% of prostate involved. Est volume 5x3x3=450c
4) Extensive extraprostatic extension.
5) Bilateral seminal vesicle involvement. ‘
6) Multiple surgical margins positive (see synoptic report).
7) Pathologic stage: pTSbNoMx
(F) Posterior apical margin, excision:
Positive for prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason sum score
5+5=9l10.
(G) Right seminal vesicles. excision:
1) Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason sum score 5+4=9/10.
2) Fibrovascular tissue and naive ganglia.
3) No seminal vesicle identified.
(H) left bladder neck margin, excision:
1) Fibromuscular tissue with chronic inflammation.
2) No tumor identified.
Synoptic Report:
Diagnosis: Prostatic adenocarcinoma
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy
Specimen Size: 5.5 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm
Specimen Weight: 65 gm
Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph node dissection
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma. acinar type
Histologic Grade [Gleason pattern)
Primary Pattern: Grade 5
Secondary Pattern: Grade 4 .
Total Gleason Score: 9
Tertiary Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Percent of Prostate involved: >90%
Size of Dominant Nodule
Greatest dimension: 50 mm
Extraprostatic Extension: Extensive

 

1 Finﬁl

Final

/¢Ar0«3

W, W
51%;. ‘. push—{LI Nos 64"",

9550/ 3

H/‘f/I).

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

Page: i of 5

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

i
-

 

Seminal Vesicle invasion:

Left: Positive

Right: Positive

Lymph-vascular invasion: Negative
Penneural invasion: Positive
Margins:

Apical: Positive (part F), posterior
Bladder neck: Positive

Anterior: Negative

Lateral: Positive. right
Posterolateral: Positive, bilateral
Posterior: Positive

Nodes: Node Group: Left obturator
Total: 5

Positive: 0

Node Group: Right obturator

Total: 8

Positive: 0

Patholoiic Staiez' iTBb pNO Mx '
.D,

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Left obturator [N

B: Right obturetor LN

C: Right apical margin

D: Left apical margin

E: Prostate and seminal vesicles

F: Posterior apical margin

G: Right seminal vesicle

H: Left bladder neck margin

Clinical History:

Prostate cancer.

Intraoperative Consultation:

Time Received:

Time Reported:

FSCl: Right apical margin: Fibrotic fatty tissue. muscle,
lymphoid tissue, negative for cancer (1 block).

FSD1: Left apical margin: Fibrotic fatty ti55ue, muscle.
l ‘ ' ue. negative for cancer (1 block).

  
 

   

MD

MD (Resident)

Gross Description:

(A) (left obturator lymph node) Received in formalin is

multiple fragmented tissue pieces with an aggregate measurement
of 3.5 x 3.9 x 1.8 cm. The tissue is tan to red, fibroadipose

tissue. Six presumptive nodes are found varying in length from
2.2 to 2.5 cm. One node is submitted in cassettes At-A5.

M

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

Page: 1 nt' 5

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

E i

(B) (right obturator lymph node) Received in formalin is a
mass of tissue measuring 6.5 x 3.5 x 2.2 cm. The tissue is red
to tan and fibrofatty. Seven lymph nodes ranging from 1.1 cm to
5.2 cm are identified. Lymph nodes are submitted within block
B1. One bisected node within block 82, one node in BS, one
bisected node within B4, the largest node is cut in half,

bisected and submitted in BS and 86.

(C) (right apical margin) Received fresh for frozen section is
red«brown tissue which is unoriented that is 1.4 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm
and submitted entirely in F801.

(D) (left apical margin) Received fresh for frozen section is
red-brown tissue which is unoriented that is 1.0 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm
and submitted entirely in F801.

(D) (prostate and seminal vesicles) Received in formalin is a
radical prostatectomy which measures 5.0 cm superior to
inferior. 5.5 cm anterior to posterior and 5.0 cm from right to
left. The prostate is tightly adherent to the seminal vesicles

and weighs 65 gm. The right part of the specimen is inked red,
the left-inked green and‘the posterior stiipe is inked black.

Upon sectioning there is marked periurethrai nodularity
comprising approximately 80% of the specimen. There is also a
punctate hemorrhage in the posterior base bilaterally. The apex
is radially sectioned from right to left and submitted in order
from E1 to E5. Blocks E6-E40 are submitted corresponding to the
diagram which is attached to the paperwork. The seminal
vesicles which were oriented right and left are submitted in
blocks E42-E48 and unoriented and nonspecific seminal vesicle is
submitted in blocks E49-552 according to the diagram.

(F) (posterior apical margin) Received in formalin are two
tissue fragments varying in color from purple to tan-pink with
greatest measurement of 1.0 cm, both are submitted in cassette
F1 entirely.

(G) (right seminal vesicles) Received in formalin is a strip

of tissue measuring 3.0 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. The tissue varies from
tan to red—purple. The specimen is serially sectioned and
submitted in cassette G1.

(H) (left bladder neck margin) Received in fonnaiin is a strip

of tissue which measures 2.0 and has widths varying from 0.5 to
0.2 cm. The specimen ranges in color from tan-brown to
purple-black and is submitted entirely in H1. l

Microscopic Description:

Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. -

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Hist0pathology has a list of lH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

Histo atholo Laboratc in the De rtment of Pathology at The
E They

M

 

 

l1

Printed from: Default

 

Page: J of 5

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

- .\-l

 

have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary for the ASR's. These tests are not investigational

and are used in standard clinical care. In cases where
lmmunohistochemistry testing is performed. the following
antibodies and their respective clones may be used to determine
therapy for the patient: EFGR(3lG7). ER(SP1). PR(1E2),
Her2neu(485), C0117(Poiy), CDQO(L26).

Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by lHC, Her2 by lHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER, PR. Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-2/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak.

‘ (complete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+). less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report.

 

 

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

Page: 4 nt‘ 5

 

