_. ---uv

 

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report — — ’ '
Name: . Case #: _
DOB: ' Collected: . - 0
Gender: F Received:
MRN: —' Reported:
Location: _ . .- -..... . Copy To:
Physician: _ _, _. .._. . _
Pa holo ic I re tion'
A. Left axillary lymph node biopsy . /C A , 0 f 3
- One lymph node (1) negative for carcinoma.
- immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative. (3? x 1 r ”WW7 kinda/a, Mus grep/3
/
3. Left axllla lymph node blopsyt ,: , .- Mm; mu.) MM. W c 50- 3’ .
- One lymgt node (1) negative for carcinoma. de ‘5 ﬂ ’ / Jh/ﬂ
- immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative. CWF 51%” W, N“ 65’0- ? 1"”
c. Left axillary lymph node biopsy r :
- One lymph node (1) negative for carcinoma.
- Immunohistochemistry for keratin' rs negative.
D. Left at mastectomy:
- l VASIVE CARCINOMA. with Iobuiar features. moderately differentiated Nottingham grade 2 (3 + 3 + 1 7),
w largest extent of tumor grossly measuring 2.0 cm (see note).
— IN SITU CARCINOMA, with lobuiar features, high nuclear grade. central cornedo necrosis and ns is
present in 4 out of 12 slides (see note).
i“ - Biopsy site is present.
All i‘I _ Margins “.98“,- ,9 for in situ and invasive carcinoma. uum: .;ch?723"- 5:333:31??? 25775292591?“
— No iymphovascular invasion is present.
_ immunohistochemical results: Ill ||lllIllllllllilllllllllllIlllllllilillllllllllllllllklllllilllllteaI
Estrosemeoemor: Positive IllllllllllIllliillillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHi mu
Progesterone receptor. Positive
HEM: PM“ (3+, IHlllllIillllllllllllllllllllillIlilllliHlHllHllllillllll
E-Cadherin: Negative

Note: This is an unusual neoplasm with morphologic features of a iobuiar in situ and invasive carcinoma list is E-

cadherin negative. with high nuclear grade and necrosis, and positive HER-2. The biological behavior and
of such neoplasms. which are sometimes referred to as Pleomorphic chular Carcinoma. may be similar tc
carcinomas.

WW

Specimen: Total breast

Procedure: Total mastectomy

Lymph node sampling: Sentinel lymph node

Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen

Specimen Laterallty: Left

Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2.0 cm

Tumor Focailty: Single focus of invasive carcinoma

Skin: invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis withom skin

Skeletal muscle: No skeletal muscle present

Lobuiar carcinoma In situ: Present

Histologlc Type of Invasive Carcinoma: Invasive carcinoma with lobuiar features

Glandular (AcinarYTubular Differentiation: Score 3<10% of the tumor are taming glandular/tubular structures
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei. often with prominent nucleoli. exhibiting marked variation in

in size and shape. occasionally with very large and bizarre forms
Mitotic count: Score 1

Overall grade: Grade 2: scores of 6 or 7
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 1.2 cm from deep margin
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Lymph nodes: Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 3

clinical course
ductal

 

 

Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 3

Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (<0.2 mm and <200 cells): 0

Size of largest metastatic deposit (if present): 0
Extranodal extension: Not identiﬁed
Method of evaluadon of sentinel lymph nodes: lmmunohistochemistry (pending)
Pathologlc staging: pT1c: Tumor >10 mm but <20 mm in greatest dimension
pNO: (i+): Malignant cells in regional lymph nodes no greater than 0.2 cm and no more than 200 cells (detected by

including lTC).

Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Estrogen Receptor: Performed on this specimen
Results: lmmunoneactive tumor cells present (>1%)
Progesterone Receptor. Periormed on this specimen
Results: lmmunoreactive tumor cells present (>1%)
HER2Ineu: Performed on this specimen
Results: Positive (Score 3+)
Microcslciﬂcations: Present in situ carcinoma

NOTE:SMI¢' " “ ' ' ' " mm " a. (AW " Hbyml ‘ ,.MMMdiMyWWM&MmFDAW
[DJ—ER. P'Rm— =PR. A485 HER), II-Ilwmm AHMMWMnMwithﬁr-ahumhmwnmwum lkrccﬁonkbymw
Milmpaﬂiwarmn

 

 

H&EorlHC

“adamant-w
unintuitive

A: the attending pathologist. l attest that l: (t) Examined the anvanIprepararionk)

for the specie-”(3): and (ii) Rendered the diagnamks).

“Electronically Signed Out By'“

ProceduresIAddenda

Addendum Date Ordered: '. Statue: Signed Out
Date Complete: 1
Date Reported:

William

D. LEFT BREAST MASTECTOMY:

- The tumor cells are positive for HER2 gene amplification by ClSH (performed at

C whiten
A. Leit axilia 1 - FS: No obvious malignancy; however. immunostains are pending.
8. Left axiila 1 - FS: No obvious malignancy; however. immunodains are pending.
C. Left an‘lla 1 FS: No obvious malignancy; however. immunostains are pending.

 

 

Pago2or.

 

p SURGICAL PATHOL Report

 

 

 
  

Patient with biopsy-proven inﬁltrating iobuiar carcinoma. Please evaluate margins and if sentinel nodes are H&E ative. do

immunohistochemistry.

MW

Left total mastectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy. possible axillary node dissection

P v '

lnﬁltrating Iobular carcinoma of left breast

Specimenls) Received:

A: Left axilla 1 , , , - FS

B: Left axilla 1 - FS

C: Left axilla 1 1- FS

D: Left breast

W

A. Received fresh is a 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one block for frozen
section.

B. Received fresh is a 2 x 1 x 0.6 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one b for frozen
section. .

C. Received fresh is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm adipose tissue fragment. The specimen is submitted in toto in one look for frozen
section.

D. Received in formalin is an 871—gram, 20 x 16 x 6 cm mastectomy specimen. An ellipse of skin is identifi it measures
16 x 9 x 0.2 cm. The nipple and areola measure 1.8 cm and 4.5 cm. respectively. The specimen is orient with one
stitch superior and two stitches medial. The specimen is inked and cross sectioned in the frozen room. A x 1.5 x 1.2
cm. ill-defined lesion was identiﬁed in the left lower outer quadrant. This lesion is located 1.2 cm from the eep resection
margin (closest). A 0.2 x 0.1 cm tissue sample was taken by Dr. A 0.3 x 0.3 cm tissue sample was t ken for tissue
bank. A 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm tissue sample was taken by Dr. ‘ ,, ,« for research. An additional ' of adipose
tissue and skin accompanies the specimen; it measures 7.5 x 4 x 2.5 cm. The skin measures 7 x 2.5 x 0. cm. Cross

sections throughout the specimen show a multilobulated adipose tissue. No lesions are identiﬁed. The
is 40:60. The specimen is submitted as follows:

1 Section of nipple and areola

2 Lesion in relation to the deep margin (closest)
3-5 Remainder of lesion in toto

6 Section of left upper inner quadrant

7 Section of left lower inner quadrant

8 Section of central compartment

9 Section of left upper outer quadrant

10 Sedion of left lower outer quadrant

11&12 Sections of additional breast tissue segment

Initials

‘ je—

 

 

 

to stroma ratio

Page3of:

