Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient Name: Accession #:
MRN: Service: Collected.
DOB: Visit #: Received:
Gender: M Location: Reported:

. Facility:
Ordering MD:
Copy To:

 

Spgimenlgl Received 1 ED": '3
1. Lymthode: Leﬂ Cervical W L103. ?1 4&4?

2. Lymph node :left paratracheal Lymph node 0.6,

3. Lymph node :paracerdial nodes . LP: _

4. Lymph node :para esophageal . 8 J11, W, W W C/SS
5. Lymph node :Left gastric nodes ,

6. Stomach Resection :Esophagus and proximal stomach margin on stomach m '
7. Lymph node Para esophageal . /W% D

 

8. Esophagus :Final esophageal margin 9 L D 4, I, D/IS

Diagnosis '

1. LYmph-Node: Left Cervical: , ““1“‘Ei‘g‘Zﬂﬁ'ﬁgﬁg‘PgﬁE‘; ”msucgédacted 3
‘ ”mp" "“3 *1: "593‘“ f°r “"3““ I“ INHIIHHIHINI“H““HIHHI lllllllllllIllllllllllllllll

m no e'e are cea m n e' llllllllllll||||||||l|llllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIll
2' Ly ph d J ftp m h my ph 0d. i“”HmllIlllI||||||||ll|||||lIIIIIIHIHIHIHHIIH||||||||

- lymph nodes x2:
i. negative for carcinoma ,
ii. ﬁbrotic nodule with features consistent with hyalinized granuloma - see comment

3. Lymph node :paracardial nodes
- lymph nodes x4: negative for carcinoma

4. Lymph node :para esophageal
~ lymph node x1:

i. negative for carcinoma

ii. ﬁbrotic nodule with features consistent with hyalinized granuloma - see comment
— lymph node x1: negative for carcinoma

5. Lymph node :Left gastric nodes
- metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2/9 lymph nodes

6. Esophagus and proximal stomach; resection:

— adenocarcinoma of esophagus, moderately differentiated, invading muscularis propria —- see synoptic data and comment
- metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2/ 18 lymph nodes (total lymph node count includes specimens #1 to #4)

- resection margins: negative for carcinoma

7. Lymph node Para esophageal
- ﬁbroadipose tissue and smooth muscle: negative for carcinoma

 

Page1of4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

8. Esophagus :Final esophageal margin:
— negative for carcinoma.

gourmet!

6. The tumor is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, involving distal esophagus and extending into proximal
stomach. The tumor invades muscularis propria and is accompanied by foci of high grade dysplasia in a background of
intestinal metaplasia. Glands with high grade dysplasia are mostly present beneath intact squamous mucosa. suggestive -
of underlying foci of sub—squamous Barrett’s mucosa. There is metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2118 lymph nodes. There
are two lymph nodes (specimens #2 and #4) with areas of hyalinizetion associated with some palisading macrophages
and an occasional multinucleated giant cell, features in keeping with hyalinized granulomas. The differential diagnosis is
wide and includes prior infection with histoplasma. other infectious etiologies as well as sarcoidosis. There are no acid fast
bacilli or fungi identiﬁed utilizing ZN and PAS stains.

Synogtic Data
Specimen: Esophagus
Proximal stomach
Procedure: ‘ Esophagogastrectomy
Tumor Site: Distal esophagus (lower thoracic esophagus)

Esophagogastric junction (EGJ)

Proximal stomach and esophagogastric junction
Relationship of Tumor to Esophagogastric Junction:

Tumor midpoint is located at the esophagogastricjunction

Distance of tumor center from esophagogastricjunction: 0 cm
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.4 cm '

Additional dimension: 1.8 cm

Additional dimension: 0.7 cm

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade: (32: Moderately differentiated

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria

Proximal Margin: Involved by invasive carcinoma
Uninvolved by dysplasia

Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Uninvolved by dysplasia

Circumferential (Advenﬁtial) or Deep Margin:
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Status of All Margins: All margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Dietance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.3 cm
Closest margin: Circumferential

Treatment Effect No prior treatment

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor invades muscularis propria

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1: Regional lymph node metastasis involving 1 to 2 nodes

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 18
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 2
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Intestinal metaplasia (Barrett's esophagus)
Dysplasia. high grade

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Page20f4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Clinical Histogy
esophageal ca at the GE junction

Gross Description
1. The requisition is labeled wit h the patient’s name and “left cervical lymph node”. The container

matches the requisition. The specimen consists of a single, unoriented, tan piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x
0.3 cm. It is bisected and submitted in toto in one block, 1A.

2. The requisition is labeled with the patient’s name and "left paratracheal lymph node”. The container matches the
requisition. The specimen consist of two pieces of unoriented, tan ﬁbrofalty tissue, the largest measuring 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4
cm and the smallest measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The largest piece contains one hard lymph node measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x
0.3 cm. which is bisected and submitted in toto in one block. 2A. The smallest piece contains one soft lymph node
measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm, which is bisected and submitted in into in one block, ZB.

3. The requisition is labeled with the patient’s name and “paracardial nodes The container matches the requisition.
The specimen consists of two unoriented, tan pieces of ﬁbrofatty tissue, the largest measuring 4.3 x 3.5 x 0.6 cm, the
smallest measuring 3.5 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. Gross dissection reveals a total of four (4) soft, unremarkable lymph nodes,
measuring from 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm to 0.9 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Sections are submitted as follows:

3A One lymph node in toto, bisected

SB. One lymph node in toto, bisected

30 One lymph node in toto, bisected

30 One lymph node in toto, bisected

4. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and “paraesophageal The container matches the requisition.
The specimen consists of one unoriented, tan piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. Gross dissection
reveals two (2) soft, unremarkable lymph nodes. the largest measuring 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.5cm, and the smallest measuring 1.0
x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: ‘

4A Largest iymph node in toto, trisected

4B Smallest lymph node in toto, trisected

5. The requisition is labeled with the patient’s name and “left gastric nodes The container matches the requisition.
The specimen consists of a cylindrical, tan, unoriented piece ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. Gross
dissection reveals nine (9) soft. unremarkable lymph nodes, measuring from 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.7m to 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.
Sections are submitted as follows:

5A One (1) lymph node in toto, trisected

SB One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected

56 One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected

50 One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected

5E One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected

5F One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected

56 Three (3) lymph nodes in toto

6. The requisition is labeled wit h the patient’s name and “esophagus and proximal stomach ". The container matches the
requisition.

GROSS EXAMINATl N

RESECTION SPECIMEN: esophagectomy
FlXATlON: Fixed

DlMENSlONS:

Length along lesser curvature 3.0 cm
Length along greater curvature 6.0 cm

Circumference of distal gastric margin 11.0 cm (painted)
Circumference of proximal gastric margin 5.5 cm

 

Page3cf4

. . state'i‘isaimy degenerate

Length of tubular esophagus if present 12.0 cm
Width of tubular esophagus if present 3.5 cm
Circumference of proximal esophageal margin 4.0 cm . defect in proximal esophageal margin due to piece taken for

tissue banking)
TUMOR:

LOCATION:
— tumour is located at gastro—esophageal junction, with approximately 50% of the mass in the esophagus and 50% in the

stomach. -
- CONFIGURATION: exophytic, ulcerative, and non~circumferential

- DIMENSIONS: Diameters 3.4 x 1.8 cm (measured fresh)
Depth 0.7 cm (measured ﬁxed, into muscularis propria, does not reach advenﬁtia grossly)

- DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: solid, exophyb‘c growth with ulcerated surface. homogenously white on cut section

— PERFORATION: No

- DISTANCE FROM MARGINS:
- PROXIMAL 8.5 cm (measured ﬁxed)
— DlSTAL 1.2 cm (measured fresh)
— RADIAL 0.3 cm (non—peritoneatized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration, adventitia painted

with AgNOS posterior to tumour)

ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION: Into muscularis propria
LESIONS lN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: none

LYMPH NODES: none (lymph nodes submitted as separate parts)

Sections submitted as follows:

6A—E Distal gastric resection margin in toto, en face (frozen sections)

6F Proximal esophageal resection margin, en face ,

66 Section of grossly nonnal esophagus

6H Section of grossly normal stomach ,

6| Full-thickness section of esophagus immediately proximal to tumour .

SJ—Q Tumour in toto, serially-sectioned perpendicular to long axis of esophagus, superior to inferior
6R Full-thickness section of stomach immediame distal to tumour

7. The requisition is labeled with the patient‘s name and “parassophageal . The container matches the requisition.
The specimen consists of three unoriented, tan pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm in aggregate.
These are submitted in toto in one block, 7A

8. The requisition is labeled with the patient‘s name and “ ﬁnal esophageal margin‘. The container matches the
requisition. The specimen consists of one unoriented ring of esophageal tissue stapled circumferentially at one end. The
specimen measures 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. The lumen diameter measures 1.0 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto en
face in one block, 8A '

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I _V‘¢l , 1"
Quick Section Diagnosis r f._.?
6. Esophagus and proximal stomach: 1;,- . __..._, .._- ‘5
Gastric margin: negative for carcinoma ‘11:]: ‘ff 7 -—— —~ J37—
. 1311‘ J;— y @1115!) >___‘
“’29:“ ' - _ .. . . vie-rift _ _
.. . #:an . @971

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4

