 

 

 

 

uum: F18AFE4B- 5333- 418A- Aene- E347ACA3C66eBd
Requesting Doctor'slnlormaiicn: v TCGA' °R' “JI' ”1" PR

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmled
WWHWWHWMIW
IWWWWWWWWM

gamma M/ MM ﬂbryl‘tcaj
aeéﬂmmM%aam

(:74 b

913 450/ I3

SPECSMEN TYPE: Adrenal

CLINICAL NOTES: ’
Flight adrenal gland. Lap Rt adenalectomy -> incidentally found complex Rt
adrenal lesion. ,

MACROSCOPIC: '

‘Right adrenal gland’ The specimen consists of an adrenal gland 70 x 45 x
40mm weighing 269 with scanty attached fatty tissue up to 5mm wide One
surface of the adrenal capsule is disrupted. On sectioning a yellow iobulated
nodule 40 x 30 x 80mm with central cystic change and hasmorrhage is present
within the adrenal gland The surrounding adrenal gland shows normal cortex
and medulla. The nodule appears encapsulated by a fine capsule with no
invasion into adjacent fat.

Block 1: adjacent normal adrenal gland

Blocks 2 to 6: representative nodule ‘

Blocks 6 to 11:

MICROSCOPIC:

The 40 mm adrenal lesion is a low grade adrenal cortical carcinoma. It fulﬁls
3 of the Weiss criteria of malignancy (predominantly eosinophilic cell type,
cytological atypia. diffuse architecture). The tumour is confined to the

adrenal and separated from the soft tissue margin but an intact psedocapsuie
indicating that local excision is complete; The mitotic rate is low (less than

1 mitosis per 10 hpf). No atypical mitoses are identified. There is no
coagulatlve necrosis. There is no vascular or sinusoidal invasion. Numerous
eosinophillc cytoplasmic globules (a feature associated with malignancy) are
present. There Is some myxoid change.

lmmunohistochemistry supports the diagnosis of carcinoma and confirms adrenal
cortical origin. it is as follows:

iGF2: Diffussly strongly positive with perinuciear dot-like staining
iii-67: Low proiilerative index (4%)

Calretinin: Positive

MelanA: Positive

8-100: Negative

Chromogranin: Negative

 

 

 

SUMMARY:
Right adrenal gland: Low grade adrenal cortical carcinoma 40 mm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iunmd". as: n I

save 3

ﬁwﬁiwbo Vbﬁm§O#b2ﬁ

