UUID:542C9A76-5335-46A6-833F-5A63871F92Md
‘ ‘f TCGA-DK-A3IT-01A-PR

acted
III | lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllelllllll||
lll llllllllllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll
lll llllllll|ll|ll|||ll|||ll|l||||lllllllllllllllllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med_ Rec. #: Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #2

Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATlENT

Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
Patient with previous renal transplant on chronic immuno suppression. HGT2 bladder lesion, radical cystectomy and bilateral
nephro-U.

Sgecimens Submitted:
1: Right ureter (fs)

2: Bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles, radical cystoprostatectomy
3: Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection

4: Left vas deferens

5: Left kidney

6: Portion of left adrenal gland

7: Right kidney

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.Right ureter, biopsy (ts):
Benign segment of ureter

2. Bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles, radical cystoprostatectomy:

a.

Part # 2

Tumor Type: / C 9 0 ’

Histologic Gralgzasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS G 01M 14/": dmjég‘pé, AM; Y I 20/ 3
mwgme ,ynzsh¢&wkﬁ&fwdz abik

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component: W
Flat (in situ carcinoma) [#7/1!
Focal

Pattern of growth of the invasive component:
lnfiltrating

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identified
Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesical soft tissues
Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Right ureter uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved
Invasive carcinoma is present in the region around the left ureteral orifice
Vascular Invasion:
identified
Perineural Invasion:
Identiﬁed
Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

 

 

I t
Non—Neoplastic Mucosa: ' W 7351711
Exhibiting ulceration

"'1

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Exhibiting foreign body reaction
Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn's nests, cystitis cystica. cystitis glandularis)

Prostate:
Other Please see Part B.
Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed
The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Part # 2

Tumor Type:
Adenocarcinoma

Gleason's Grade:
Primary Gleason grade23
Secondary Gleason grade:4
Total Gleason score:7

Tumor Location:

Involves Right anterior
Vascular Invasion:

Not Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Not identified

Tumor M ulticentricity:
Not identifed

High Grade Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia:
Identified
Capsule:
Tumor conﬁned to prostate
Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non—Neoplastic Prostate:
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2a (conﬁned to the prostate & capsule, involving one lobe)

 

3. Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection:
Part # 3
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 7
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 0

 

Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Specimen entirely examined

 

4. Left vas deferens, resection:
Benign ﬁbromuscular and vascular tissue

5. Left kidney, nephroureterectomy:
Histologic changes consistent with end—stage renal disease with diffuse glomerulosclerosis, extensive thyroidization and
atrophy of tubules and interstitial chronic inﬂammation ‘
Vasculature with diffuse concentric myointimal hyperplasia
Benign renal pelvic urothelial mucosa with proliferative changes

6. Portion of left adrenal gland, resection:
Benign adrenal gland

7. Right kidney, nephroureterectomy:
Histologic changes consistent with end-stage renal disease with diffuse glomerulosclerosis, extensive thyroidization and
atrophy of tubules and interstitial chronic inflammation
Vasculature with diffuse concentric myointimal hyperplasia
Benign renal pelvic urothelial mucosa with proliferative changes

I A'I'I'EST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Gross Description:

1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "Right ureter” and consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 1 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

2). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "bladder, prostate, and seminal vesicles". It consists of a bladder with attached
prostate and adnexa measuring 16.5 cm from superior to inferior, 10.5 cm laterally and 4.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The
bladder measures 6.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm. the prostate measures 4.4 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. the right seminal vesicle measures 3.4 x 2.0 x 0.9
cm. the right vas deferens measures 8.0 x 0.5 cm, the left seminal vesicle measures 3.2 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm and the left vas deferens
measures 6.5 x 0.5 cm. The anterior aspect of the bladder is inked blue and the posterior black. The prostatic urethral margin is
shaved and submitted. The bladder is opened along the anterior midline to reveal an ulcerated lesion measuring 3.2 x 2.2 cm
grossly situated within the left lateral wall. The lesion measures 1.5 cm from the left oriﬁce and 3.5 from the right. Both ureters
are probe patent measuring up to 0,2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is sectioned to reveal underlying fibrotic papillary
tissue extending to a depth of 1.3 cm grossly approaching into the perivesicular fat. The remaining bladder mucosa is inked tan
and otherwise grossly unremarkable. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are not grnssly identified. The prostate is serially
sectioned to reveal diffuse tan-yellow nodularity. The entire prostate is submitted. ' is submitted. Representative sections are
submitted.

Summary of sections:
UTHM - urethral margin
RUM - right ureter margin
LUM - left ureter margin
T - tumor

 

Page 3 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

RUO - right ureter oriﬁce

LUO - left ureter oriﬁce

LP - left posterior wall

LA — left anterior wall

RP - right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall

TRl - trigone

DOM - dome no cancer in a window of
F - perivesical fat

RSV — right seminal vesicle

LSV — left seminal vesicle

RAP - right apex prostate

LAP - left apex prostate

RAM - right anterior mid prostate
RPM - right posterior mid prostate
LAM - left anterior mid prostate
LPM - left posterior mid prostate
RAB - right anterior base prostate
RPB - right posterior base prostate
LAB - left anterior base prostate
LPB - left posterior base prostate
ADD — remainder of the prostate

3). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “left pelvic lymph nodes“, and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.5 cm to 3 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen including all identifiable lymph nodes is submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
ADD — remainder of the specimen

4) the specimen is received in formalin labeled" left vas deferens“, and consists of a 6.5 cm in length, 0.5 cm diameter tubular soft
tissue. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
R - representative

5). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "left kidney", and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels, and
perinephric fat. The kidney weighs 76.5 g. The kidney measures 10 x 4 x 3 cm. The attached ureter measures 23 cm in length
and 0.5 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.2 cm in length and 1 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter are
grossly unremarkable. The adrenal gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is bivalved to reveal focal hemorrhagic pelvic mucosa and
diffuse fatty inﬁltration in the renal parenchyma. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal thin cortex measuring 0.4 cm
in thickness and pink brown parenchyma. No lymph nodes identiﬁed in the perinephric fat. Representative sections are
submitted for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins

P -— Renal pelvis. representative sections
K -- Representative sections

6) the specimen is received in formalin labeled" portion of left adrenal gland", and consists of golden yellow glandular soft tissue in
aggregate measuring 3 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. There is a moderate amount of the fat tissue attached to it. Representative sections are
submitted.

Summary of sections:
R — representative sections

 

Page 4 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

7) The specimen is received fresh labeled "right kidney” and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels, and
perinephric fat weighing 550 g in total. The kidney weighs 71 g and measures 9 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm. The attached ureter measures
16 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.8 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. The renal
vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is bivalved to reveal tan-pink
atrophlc renal parenchyma with cortex measuring 0.6 cm in thickness. 80% of the renal parenchyma is replaced by fat. The
cortico-medullary junction is not well-deﬁned. The calyces appear atrophlc. No lymph nodes are identified in the perinephric fat.
Representative sections are submitted for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins

P -- renal pelvis representative sections
K —- representative sections kidney

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Right ureter (fs)

Block Sect. Site P69
1 FSC 0

Part 2: Bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles, radical cystoprostatectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs

15 ADD 15
DOM
F
LA
LAB
LAM
LAP
LP
LPB
LPM
LSV
LUM
LUO

RUO

TRI
UTHM

Adﬁﬂ—hg—I-ﬁ—s—n-L—LAAAAAAdd—\A-L—l-x—i
_LAU‘A—l—I—L—L—i-L—L—L—A—A—l—A—L-A—‘A—A-L—A—I‘

Part 3: Left pelvic lymph nodes, resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
8 ADD 8
1 LN 0
2 LN1 0

 

Page 5 of 6

Part 4:

Block

Part 5:

Block

Part 6:

Block

Part 7:

Block

Left vas deferens

Sect. Site
R

Left kidney

Sect Site
K

P

UVM

Portion of left adrenal gland

Sect. Site
R

Right kidney

Sect. Site
K

p

UVM

Intraogerative Consultation: '
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

1. Frozen section diagnosis: Right ureter (fs): Benign
Permanent diagnosis: Same

 

Page 6 of 6

END OF REPORT

