 

 

Final Patna/0.01! ﬂiagnasis ﬁanart

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

Final Pathologic Diagnosis

A) RIGHT LEVEL I (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):

- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 2 of 4 lymph nodes (2/4).

- ' Submandibular gland with chronic sialadenitis; negative for
neoplasia.

 

B) RIGHT LEVEL ll (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):
- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 3 of 11 lymph nodes (3/11).

C) RIGHT LEVEL lil (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):

- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of9 lymph nodes (1/9).

- Positive for extranodal extension.

- lntranodal thyroid tissue consistent with metastatic papillary thyroid
carcinoma, follicular variant.

D) RIGHT LEVEL VI (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):
- Nine lymph nodes negative for neoplasia (0/9).

E) LEFT LEVEL I (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):

- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of 9 lymph nodes (1/9).

- Submandibular gland with chronic sialadenitis and atrophy; negative
for neoplasia.

F) LEFT LEVEL ll (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):
- Metastatic squamous celi carcinoma in 5 of 14 lymph nodes (5/14).

G) LEFT LEVEL Itl (RADICAL NECK DiSSECTlON):
- Seven lymph nodes negative for neOplasia (0/7).

H) LEFT LEVEL VI (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):
- Nine lymph nodes negative for neoplasia (0/9).

Page: 1 of 7

 

 

 

 

'final Pathology niagnasis Repair

' ' ' ' ' Collected Date/Time: -
Received Date/T 1' me:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

l) BlLATERAL SUBMENTAL LYMPH NODES (RADICAL NECK DISSECTION):
- Metastatic squamous ceil carcinoma in 2 of 4 lymph nodes (2/4).
- Positive for extranodal extension.

J) TONGUE, FLOOR OF MOUTH AND MANDIBLE (COMPOSITE RESECTION
OF FLOOR OF MOUTH, SEGMENTAL MANDIBULECTOMY, AND

TOTAL GLOSSECTOMY):
- Well to moderately differentiated infiltrating squamous cell
carcinoma (see synoptic report).

K) DEEP TONGUE MARGIN (BIOPSY):
- Negative for neoplasia.

L) ANTERIOR TONGUE (BIOPSY):
- Negative for neoplasia.

M) LEFT LATERAL (BIOPSY):
- ' Negative for neoplasia.

N) RIGHT LATERAL (BIOPSY):
- Negative for neoplasia.

i attest I have personally reviewed the specimen/slides and agree with the above ﬁndings.

 

Page: 2 of '7

 

 

 

 

final Parka/nay Hiaynasis Renal!

Accession Number: Senior Pathologist: Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/”Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Synoptic Report

.3: Upper Aerodigestive Tract, Macroscopic

SPECIMEN TYPE:
Resection (specify type): Composite resection floor of mouth, segmental mandibuiectomy, total glossectomy and
biiateral radical neck dissection.

TUMOR SITE:
Oral Cavity

TUMOR SIZE:

' Greatest dimension: 7 cm

*Additlonal dimensions: 6 x 3 cm

J: UPPER AERODIGESTIVE TRACT, MICRO — MCGH
HlSTOLOGlC TYPE:
Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
(32: Moderately differentiated
PREMARY TUMOR (pT): Lip and Oral Cavity:
pT4a: Oral Cavity: Tumor invades adjacent structures (eg, through cortical bone, into deep {extrinsic} muscle of
tongue [genioglossus, hyoglossus, palatogiossus. and styloglossus], maxillary sinus, skin of face)
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): Oropharynx
REGIONAL LYMPI—i NODES (pN): All Aerodigestive Sites Except Nasopharynx:
pN2c: Metastasis in bilateral or contraiaterai lymph nodes, none more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
Number examined: 76
Number involved: 14
*EXTRA-CAPSULAR EXTENSION OF NODAL TUMOR:
*Present
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed
MARGINS:
Margins uninvolved by tumor
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 0.6 mm
Specify margin, if possible: Anterior gingival
*VENOUS/LYMPHATIC (LARGE/SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (V/L):
*Present
PER/NEURAL lNVASlON:
Absent
*ADDiTIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:

Page: 3 of 7

 

 

   

 

' final Pathology Diagnosis ﬁe'aart

Accession Number: Senior Pathoio ist: Collected Date/Time:
Received Date/”Time:

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Metastatic thyroid carcinoma (follicular variant of papillary) in right level ill lymph node.

lntraoierative Diainosis

K1: Negative for carcinoma.
L1: Negative for carcinoma.
M1: Negative for carcinoma. No in situ/ invasive carcinoma.

N1: Negative for carcinoma.

Clinical History

-male with tongue squamous cell carcinoma.

Pre/Post-operathe Diagnosis
Tongue squamous cell carcinoma cancer.

Gross Anatomic Description

(Dictated by

Specimens received in fourteen containers.

Specimen A: Designated "right level I" is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "right level I". Specimen
consists of two fragments of pink/ tan soft tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 1 cm and 2 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. Cut surfaces show tan
lobulated soft cut surfaces (possible submandibuiar gland) and two possible lymph nodes, each measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm.
Section code: A1 ~— possible two lymph nodes bisected; A2 w soft tissue bisected (possible lymph node); A3 — representative

sections from possible submandibular gland.

Specimen B: Designated ”right level II“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right level II“. Specimen
consists of two fragments of flbroadlpose tissue measuring 5 x 3 x 1.5 cm and 3 x 1 x 0.4 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are

dissected.
Section code: Bi — individual lymph node; BZ — bisected lymph node; 83—84 ~ one bisected lymph node; 85 — soft tissue

bisected (possible lymph node).

Specimen C: Designated "right level ill" is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "right level lll". Specimen
consists of a pink/ tan flbroadlpose tissue fragment measuring 5 x 1.5x 0.3 cm. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes.

Page: 4 of 7

 

 

 

filial Pathology Diagnosis llooorr

‘ : Senior Pathol ist' Collected Date/Time:
_ ﬂ Realism/Time.

Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

Four possible lymph nodes dissected.
Section code: Cl — individual lymph nodes; 02 - one bisected lymph node; CS — one bisected lymph node.

Specimen D: Designated "right level V!“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and ”right level VI". Specimen
consists of a pink/ yellow:l tan ﬂbroadlpose tissue fragment measuring 3 x 2 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is dissected for lymph

nodes.
Section code: D1 — multiple possible lymph nodes; D2 — two lymph nodes bisected.

Specimen E: Designated "left level I“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "left level i". Specimen
consists of pink/ tan soft tissue fragments measuring 4.5 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm and 3 x 2 x 0.2 cm. The larger fragment has yellow/
tan lobulated soft cut surfaces. The smaller fragment consists of three possible lymph nodes.

Section code: E’l ~ one lymph node bisected: E2 ~ multiple lymph nodes; E3 — one lymph node bisected; E4 — representative
section from the larger fragment (possible salivary gland).

Specimen F: Designated ”left ievel II“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and "left level II“. Specimen
consists of a pink flbroadlpose tissue fragment measuring 7 x 3.5 x 1 cm. Four matted lymph nodes and one non—matted
lymph node are dissected. The matted lymph nodes range in size from 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm to 4 x 2 x 1 cm. The non—matted
lymph node measures 1.8 x 1 x 0.3 cm. Representative sections are submitted.

Section code. F1 —F3— largest matted lymph node entirely submitted; F4— second largest matted lymph node submitted
entirely; F5— third largest matted lymph node bisected and submitted entirely; FS— smallest matted lymph node bisected and
submitted entirely; F7— one lymph node bisected.

Specimen G: Designated "left level Ill“ is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left level ill”. Specimen
consists of flbroadlpose tissue fragment measuring 4.5 X 1 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes. All of the
dissected lymph nodes are submitted.

Section code: G1-GZ — one bisected lymph node; GS — multiple possible lymph nodes.

Specimen H: Designated ”left level VI" ls received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left level VI". Specimen
consists of a purple soft tissue fragmented admixed with adipose tissue measuring 5.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is
dissected for multiple lymph nodes.

Section code: H1-l-l2 — multiple lymph nodes.

Specimen l: Designated "bilateral submental lymph node" is received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and ”bilateral
submental lymph node“. Specimen consists of a soft tissue fragmented measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. Two lymph nodes
measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm and 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm are dissected.

Section code: [1 ~— bisected portion of the largest lymph node; 12 — bisected smaller lymph node.

Specimen J: Designated ”composite, mandibulectomy glossectomy and floor of mouth” is received in formalin labeled with
the patient's name and ”composite, mandibulectomy glossectomy and floor of mouth “. Specimen consists of a

Page: 5 of 7

 

   

 

final PHI/10,00]! HIHHIIJSI'S Honor!

he let: Collected Date/Time:
Received DatefTime:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:

 

mandibuiectomy specimen with attached tongue and floor of mouth measuring 10 cm from anterior to posterior, 7.5 cm from
right to left and 8 cm in height. Thejaw measures 15 cm in total length, 4.8 cm in width and 1.5 cm in thickness. Four teeth
are noted. The inferior aspect of the tongue has a white firm irregular shaped mass measuring 7 x 6 x 3 cm. The mass is
located 0.6 Cm from the closest posterior margin and 0.6 cm from the closest inferior margin. The tumor grossly extends into
the mid anterosuperlor region of the mandible and into the attached portion of mldanterior gingiva. Representative sections
are submitted. Sections of bone are submitted following decalification. Gross photographs are taken.

Inking code: Black H posterior; Red — anterior; Green .. lateral, inferior.

Section code: J1 H J3 ... anterior aspect of gingiva midline to lateral right side; J4-J7 — anterior aspect of glnglva midline to
lateral left side; J8-J10 ~ tumor with closest posterior margin J11 — inferior margin; J12 — representative sections of tumor; J13
— J14 — anterior portion of body of mandible; 315 — left ramus margin; J16 —- right ramus margin; J1 Humor with inferior
gingival muc0sa; J18 — possible tumor with the closest inferior margin.

5 ecimen K: Designated "deep tongue margin" is received fresh for intraoperatlve consultation and frozen section diagnosis
chi labeled with the patient's name and "deep tongue margin". Specimen consists of a fragment of red/ tan soft tissue

measurIng 1.5 x 1 x 0.3 cm. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section diagnosis.
Section code: Ki — frozen section control.

Specimen L: Desi nated "anterior tongue margin" is received fresh for intracperativeconsultation and frozen section
diagnosis on labeled with the patient‘s name and "anterior tongue margin" Specimen consists of three tan soft tissue
fragments measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.7 cm, 1 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm and 3 x 0.? x 0.3 cm. The largest fragment is bisected. All are
submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

Section code: L1 — L2 ~ frozen section diagnosis.

Specimen M: Designated "left lateral“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
labeled with the patient’s name and "left lateral“. Specimen consists of three tan soft tissue fragments measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x
0.2 cm, 1.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm and 1.5 x 0.3 x 0.4 cm. The Specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

Section code: M1 —~ frozen section control.

Specimen N: Designated "right lateral“ is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and frozen section diagnosis on
Habeled with the patient's name and ”left lateral”. Specimen consists of four tan/ red soft tissue fragments measuring
x . x 0.1 cm, 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm, 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm and 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm respectively. The specimen is entirely

submitted for frozen section diagnosis.
Section code: N1 - frozen section control.

Page: 6 of 7

 

 

 

Iﬂllﬂﬂﬂﬂfﬂlil/e ”iﬂﬂIIIFSI'S ”8110!!

Accession Number: Senior Patholo ist: Collected Date/Time:
Veriﬁed Date/Time:
lntraoierative Diarinosis

K1: Negative for carcinoma.
L1: Negative for carcinoma.
M1: Negative for carcinoma. No in situl invasive carcinoma.
N1: Negative for carcinoma.

 

 

Page: 7 of 7

 

 

