 

ICb~0—_’5
CW. would, N05 8120}; 0/19/14
so on». : limb, was our? z‘“

‘.-

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

M91 Rec. #; Date of Procedure:

DOB: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gende.. M Service: Urology Date of Report: ' “
Ref. Physician: , _.._. Account ‘2

Patient Address: Billing Type: INPATIENT

Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

84 year old male with T2 urothelial bladder cancer.

Specimens Submitted:

1: SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes: excision

2: SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes; excision

3: SP: Prostate, bladder and seminal vesicles and urachus; cystoprostatectomy
4: SP: Left distal ureter; excision

5: SP: Right distal ureter; excision

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes; excision:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
. Number of lymph nodes examined: 8

 

2. SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes; excision:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3

 

3. SP: Prostate, bladder and seminal vesicles and urachus; cystoprostatectomy:

Tumor Type:
invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-invasive component:
in situ component not identiﬁed

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:

Inverted and inﬁltrating uumtcfgpuJ

umor u menu-av - WlIllAllIlIIlllllllllllllllllllllllll
T “mm; m IIIIIIlI‘lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ii

i
Bladder Local Invasion: ill llIllIlIIIlllIIllIllllllllllllllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Perivesical soft tissues

ca
m-uss-92t.ui-caatuaC1slsR e dac t e d

  
   
 
    

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Ureters uninvolved

Page 1 of 5

 

W...) hm, a“. . ., ,

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Urethra uninvolved

Vascular Invasion:
Identiﬁed
Extensive

Perineural invasion:
Identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn‘s nests, cystitis cystica, cystitis glandularis)
Biopsy site changes

Prostate:
Nodular hyperplasia

Seminal Vesicles:
Other Periseminal vesicle soft tissue shows involvement by tumor and tumor emboli within lymphovascular spaces

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

PR2 (Periprostatic or periseminai vesicle soft tissue invasion) tissue invasion)

 

4. SP: Left distal ureter; excision:
- Benign ureter.

5. SP: Right distal ureter; excision:
- Benign ureter.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out “"

 

Gross Description:

1). The specimen is received in formalin. labeled “Right distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph
nodes ranging from 0.2 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph node

2). The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Left distal lymph nodes“ and consists of two gray-tan fatty lymphoid nodules
measuring 2.0 and 1.8 cm, with grossly unremarkable adipose tissue attached. The lymphoid tissue is entirely submitted.

 

Page 2 of 5

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

3.The specimen is received fresh labeled. " Prostate, bladder and seminal vesicles and urachus". It consists of a prostate, bladder
and seminal vesicles and urachus measuring 13 cm from superior to inferior, 11 cm laterally and 4.5 cm from anterior to posterior.
The right side is inked green and the left side is inked blue. The prostatic urethral margin is shaved and submitted. The bladder is
opened along the anterior midline to reveal a fungating. inﬁltrative flat tumor measuring 3.0 x 2.8 x 1.4 cm which is grossly situated
within the left posterior wall extending into the dome. The lesion measures 1.2 cm from the left oriﬁce and 1.7 cm from the right.
Both ureters are probe patent measuring up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is sectioned to reveal white-tan,
homogeneous cut-surface penetrating through the muscle. Extension to the inked fat is grossly identiﬁed. A small focus of
induration is also present in the posterior wall. The remaining bladder mucosa is hyperemic and edematous with punctate
hemorrhagic fool. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are grossly not identiﬁed. The prostate is serially sectioned to reveal nodular
ﬁrm cut surface. Representative sections are submitted including two sections from each prostatic quadrant and transition zone.
TPS is submitted. Photographs are taken.

Summary of sections:

UTHM - urethral margin

RUM - right ureter margin

LUM - left ureter margin

T- tumor

RUO - right ureter oriﬁce

LUO - left ureter oriﬁce

LP - left posterior wall

LA - left anterior wall

RP - right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall

TRI — trigone

DOM - dome

F - perivesical fat

RSV - right seminal vesicle

LSV - left seminal vesicle

RAP — right apex prostate

LAP - left apex prostate

RAM - right anterior mid prostate
RPM - right posterior mid prostate
LAM - left anterior mid prostate
LPM - left posterior mid prostate
RAB - right anterior base prostate
RPB - right posterior base prostate
LAB - left anterior base prostate
LPB - left posterior base prostate
UR-urachus

4). The specimen is received in formalin labeled "Left distal ureter, unclipped end margin.“ It consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 4.5 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter. There is a clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially
sectioned from the tip with the clip to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:

TC-tip with clip

SS-serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end
TWC-Tip without clip

5). The specimen is received in formalin labeled "Right distal ureter, unclipped end margin." It consists of a segment of ureter
measuring 3.8 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter. There is a clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially
sectioned from the tip with the clip to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Summary of sections:

TC-tip with clip

SS—serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end
TWO-Tip without clip

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 BLN 6
2 LN 5

Part 2: SP: Left distal pelvic lymph nodes; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 bin 1
1 in 1

Part 3: SP: Prostate, bladder and seminal vesicles and urachus; cystoprostatectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 DOM

RUO

1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 RAB 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
6 6
1 TRI 1
1 ur 1
1 UTHM 1

Part 4: SP: Left distal ureter; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 ss 2
1 tc 1
1 two 1

Part 5: SP: Right distal ureter; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 ss 2

 

Page 4 of 5

 

tc
twc

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Criteria

Tumor Site

fil. AA
Pr or

Case II
Reviewer initials

 

 

Page 5 of 5

END OF REPORT

