UUID: 7195E45E-2FEB-4A54-8F9E-D155D708597e5d
TCGA- Ha- A6C1- 81A- PR

III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Clinical Information: lIlIllI

. I C 1 ) '3
Pancreatic cancer III IIIIIIIIIl I IIIIII II IIIIII I IIII II I III III I lIIIIIII III IIII IIIIl II IIIIIIII| . ‘D #0
Operative Procedure: X/L/D L3

Laparoscopic Whipple 8 j
Pre-Operative Diagnosis: ZgW [0152 5.0
Pancreatic cancer 9‘30 aka-1‘ 3

Specimen Received:

A: whipple specimen - ( short black - panc. neck , long black - uncinate , blue
- bile duct) (FS)

B: Gallbladder

C: portal lymph node

D: SMA tissue

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Pancreas, Whipple resection:

Specimen: Head of pancreas; Duodenum; Gallbladder
Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection);
Cholecystectomy
Tumor site: Pancreatic head
Tumor size: 3.1 x 2.1 x 1.1 cm (greatest dimensions)
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated (G2)
Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades peripancreatic soft tissue and
duodenal wail
Margins

Margins uninvolved by tumor
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 4 mm
Specify margin: Uncinate

Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified
Perineural invasion: identified

Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
TNM descriptors: none known
Primary tumor (pT): pT3
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO
Number examined: 21
Number involved: 0
Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

 

Additional pathologic findings: Chronic pancreatitis, duodenal ulcer
with reactive changes, Submucosal lipoma of duodenum (2nd lesion noted in gross
description).

B. Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy:
Chronic choiecystitis.
Two lymph nodes, no evidence of malignancy (0/2).

C. Lymph node, portal, resection:
Two lymph nodes, no evidence of malignancy (0/2).

D. SMA tissue, resection:
No evidence of malignancy (2 lymph nodes).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Whipple:
FSA1: Bile duct:

Negative for carcinoma.
FSA2: Uncinate:

Negative for carcinoma.
FSA3: Neck:

Negative for carcinoma.

F/S TAT: 33 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are four containers, all labeled with the patient's name

Part A is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis and additionally labeled

'Whippie specimen, long black=uncinate, short black=pancreatic neck, biue=bile
duct."

Specimen (components and dimensions): The specimen is the product of a Whipple
resection, previously sectioned, consisting of a 13.2 x 3.0 cm duodenum with
pancreatic head 4.7 cm in length and additional dimensions of 5.6 x 5.5 cm.

Gallbladder: The gallbladder is submitted as a separate specimen (see part
B).
Specimen inking pattern: Uncinate/retroperitoneal/posterior black, vascular
groove red, anterior—blue. (Please note the specimen has been previously inked
in focal areas: The bile duct inked blue, uncinate inked yellow, neck inked
black.)
Tumor:

Location: Pancreatic head

Size: 3.1x 2.1x1.1cm

Appearance: The tumor is white-tan to tan with ill defined borders and a
decrease in iobuiar architecture. The tumor is also firm.

Gross impression of invasive growth: There is a biliary stent present in the
bile duct. After removal, the tumor appears to abut and obstruct the bile duct.
The tumor appears to possibly abut the main pancreatic duct, however, there does
not appear to be any gross involvement and the pancreatic duct is of the usual
caliber. The tumor also appears to abut, but not grossly penetrate through the
vascular groove. Please defer to microscopic diagnosis.
Resection margins (closest):

Proximal duodenum or stomach: 2.1 cm

Distal duodenum: 7.4 cm

Bile duct: 2.9 cm

Pancreatic neck/duct: 2.3 cm

Uncinate/Retroperitoneum: 1.1 cm
Other findings: The attached portion of duodenum has a pink-tan to brown,
smooth and roughened serosal surface. There appears to be a 1.1 x 0.8 cm
transmurai defect located 5.4 cm from the proximal end. Upon opening the
duodenum, the mucosa is pink—tan with the normal mucosal folds. The area of
transmurai defect seems to the area opposing where the bile duct stent was
located. This could be a possible area of local trauma. There are two lesions
present on the duodenal mucosal surface. The first lesion is approximately 2.6
cm from the proximal duodenal margin. This lesion is concerning for possible
tumor. The lesion appears separate from the ampulia, located on the posterior
wall of the duodenum. This lesion has dimensions of 1.4 x 1.4 x 0.4 cm. The
lesion is pink-tan with raised borders with a central ulcerated area.
Representative sections of the first lesion are placed in cassettes A14 and A15.

The second lesion in the duodenum is approximately 4.6 cm from the proximal
surface, also located on the posterior wall of the duodenum. This lesion has
dimensions of 1.4 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm. This lesion is pink-tan with a smooth surface.
The cut surface of this lesion is yellow—tan and homogeneous. Representative
sections of this lesion are placed in cassettes A16 and A17.

The bile duct is removed and submitted for frozen section diagnosis (FSA1). The
tissue is resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A1. The uncinate margin
is shaved off and submitted for frozen section diagnosis (FSA2) and this tissue
is resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A2. The pancreatic neck is
shaved off and submitted for frozen section diagnosis (FSA3) and this tissue is
resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A3.

Block List:
A1 bile duct margin;
A2 uncinate margin;
A3 pancreatic neck margin;
A4 proximal duodenal margin;
A5 distal duodenal margin;
A6 ampulla;
A7 mass to vascular groove;
A8-1O representative sections of tumor;
A11 tumor to bile duct;
A12 tumor to pancreatic duct;

A13 tumor to uncinate;

A14—1 5 representative sections of first lesion in duodenum;
A16-17 representative sections from second lesion in duodenum;
A18 one possible lymph node bisected;

A19 one possible lymph node bisected;

A20 one possible lymph node submitted in toto;
A21 one possible lymph node bisected;

A22 one possible lymph node bisected;

A23 one possible lymph node bisected;

A24 one possible lymph node;

A25 one possible lymph node bisected;

A26 one possible lymph node;

A27 one possible lymph node;

A28 one possible lymph node;

A29 one possible lymph node;

A30 one possible lymph node;

A31 one possible lymph node;

A32 one possible lymph node;

A33 one possible lymph node;

A34 one possible lymph node;

A35 one possible lymph node;

A36 one possible lymph node bisected.

Part B is received in formalin additionally labeled "gallbladder" and consists

of a gallbladder with overall dimensions of 5.9 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm. The surface is
purple-tan, smooth to roughened. There is a pericystic duct lymph node
identified, having a greatest dimension of 0.6 cm. Opening of the gallbladder
reveals a moderate amount of yellow-green markedly viscid bile. There are no
choleliths identified. The mucosa is pink-tan to brown with focal yellow

stippling. The thickness of the gallbladder wall is 0.3 cm. The cystic duct is
probe patent and appears slightly thickened. The usual sections are submitted in
a single cassette to include the pericystic duct lymph node.

Part C is received in formalin additionally labeled "portal lymph node" and
consists of one pink-tan irregular fragment of soft tissue, having dimensions of
1.3 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette C.

Part D is received in formalin additionally labeled "SMA tissue" and consists of
two pink—tan irregular fragments of soft tissue, having dimensions of 1.6 x 0.7

x 0.4 cm and 1.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette
D.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT
Taken: DOB: Gender: M

