 

 

 

 

 

I. 320 a H 114°
Sihdnwﬂﬁm C9“? ‘ "1

UUID: BACSODBE- 4605- 46D5- 9909- C897CBE941Ae6d '
TCGA- 15- A068- 01A- PR

itit'i'if'it'ittilimit"Witt“""l" -
|||illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||| 0mm“ MD‘

1

 

Copies To:
Age/hex. . ASSIstant:
Location: Date of Procedure
Date Received

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

********** Addendum - Please See End of Report **********
Reason for Addendum #1: Additional sections or studies

DIAGNOSIS:

A. RIGHT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE (SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY):
-Benign ovary with corpora albicantia, rare calciﬁcation, and rare multinucleated giant cell
-Benign fallopian tube with hydrosalpinx, small focus suggestive of endometriosis, and serosal
adhesions with reactive mesothelial cells

B. UTERUS AND CERVIX (TOTAL HYSTERECTOMY):

-Endometrial carcinoma with endometrioid (adenosquamous) and undifferentiated features
(see comment)
-Tumor measures approximately 14.0 x 7.7 cm in surface area and replaces almost all of

the anterior and posterior endometrium

-Tumor is exophytic and invasive
-Tumor invades >50% of the myometrial thickness
-Invasive tumor extends into the lower uterine segment and upper endocervix
-Lymphvascular Invasion present (contraction artefact around tumor nests also noted)
-Tumor associated necrosis with acute inﬂammatory cells
-Tumor associated lymphoplasmacytic inﬁltrate
-Rare tumor associated calciﬁcation
-Bilateral parametrial soft tissue with detached tumor fragments interpreted as floaters

-Uninvolved endometrium with deciduoid stromal change consistent with history of progestin
therapy

-Adenomyosis

-Additional ﬁndings in the cervix include nabothian cysts, squamous metaplasia, cervicitis,
and reactive cellular changes

C. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
-Four lymph nodes; no tumor seen (0/4)

D. RIGHT PA LYMPH NODE (EXCISION):
-One lymph node; no tumor seen (0/1)

E. LEFT PELVIC LYMI’H NODE (EXCISION):
-One lymph node; no tumor seen (0/1)

F. LEFT OBTURATOR LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
-Eight lymph nodes; no tumor seen (0/8)

C. LEFT PA LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):

Patient Case(s‘

Page 1 of5

 

 

 

=93... in. -. . -. . :‘,"’;§4"" . '

 

.» .__ .:;as;.‘.a..:.m...;.;~l » . . ~ ‘ . ‘ > > ~~,- , , 4..»

‘ End of I 7 ,6” **********
-Nine lymph nodes; no tumor seen (019)

H. LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODES (EXCISION):
-Four lymph nodes; no tumor seen (0/4)

I. OMENTUM #1 (PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY):
-Omental adipose tissue with tiny ﬁbrous adhesions and few crushed cells
-No tumor identiﬁed

.1. OMENTUM #2 (PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY):
-Omental adipose tissue with tiny ﬁbrous adhesions and few reactive mesothelial cells
-Focal calciﬁed fat necrosis
-No tumor identiﬁed

K. OMENTUM #3 (PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY):
-Omental adipose tissue with tiny ﬁbrous adhesions and few reactive mesothelial cells
-No tumor identiﬁed

COMMENT: The tumor exhibits glandular/poorly differentiated glandular, squamous
(nonkeratinizing), and undifferentiated featgrg. The poorly differentiated endometrioid)
component shows glandular, trabecular/cord-like, and nested growth patterns-and is considered
architectural grade 3. The undifferentiated component shows solid sheets of monotonous, small to
intermediate size cells with scant cytoplasm, open chromatin, and frequent mitoses. In an effort to
further characterize the tumor, several immunostains were performed on blocks B4 and 814. Only
rare cells in the undifferentiated component stain positive for keratin AE 1/3, MOC 31, or BER—
EP4 (in contrast to the staining seen in the endometrioid component). Stains for cytokeratin 7,
CAM 5.2, vimentin, WTl, ER, PR, chromogranin, and synaptophysin are negative in the
undifferentiated tumor component. Some undifferentiated tumor cells stain for p53 and a few stain
for p16. The lymph node proﬁles show prominent sinus histiocytosis (virtually negative
immunostaining for epithelial markers in the undifferentiated tumor component precludes
application of these antibodies to search for occult tumor cells in the lymph nodes). Based on these
specimens, pathologic staging is assigned as pT2b NO.

Reference: Altrabulsi B, Malpica A, Deavers MT, et al. Unidfferentiated carcinoma of the
endometrium. Am j Surg Pathol 2005;29(10):l316-1321.

Findings were discussed with

HISTORY: ”Clear cell endometrial cancer"

MICROSCOPIC:

Stain for WTI is also negative in the endometrioid component of the tumor. Additional immunostains will be
reported in an addendum.

SPECIAL STUDIES: Decalciﬁcation (12)

IMMUNOSTAINS:

B4: keratin AE 1/3. cytokeratin 7, p53, ER, PR, MOC31, BER-EP4, chromogranin, synaptophysin
Bl4: keratin AE 1/3, cytokeratin 7, CAM 5.2, vimentin, WT], p16

GROSS:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 5

 

 

   

.. W ' . , , Q ;
if. IQVW>um~MJI7 wk¢~t$una . p . .Md; u...

   

3 See End ofRe ort **********
PATH #: i
A. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right tube and ovary", and received fresh for gross consultation and
subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a 14 gram salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The ovary measures 2.8 x 2.0 x 1.6
cm. The fallopian tube is 4.0 cm in length and 0.7 cm in diameter.

The serosal surface of the ovary is mostly smooth with focal adhesions to the tube. The cut surface of the ovary is
pink-tan to tan-yellow and grossly unremarkable without evidence of tumor involvement. The tube has an inner
luminal diameter of 0.5 cm with hydrosalpinx noted. No gross tumor involvement is seen. The entire fallopian tube
and representative sections of the ovary are submitted.

A1. Ovary — 1

A2. Proximal tube - 4

A3. Mid tube - 4

A4. Distal tube - 3

B. UTERUS WITH CERVIX

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "uterus with cervix", and received fresh for gross consultation and
subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a 520 gram total hysterectomy specimen. The uterus measures 7.5 x 9.2 x 1 1.4
cm. The cervical portion is 5.0 cm in length and up to 3.2 cm in diameter in the ectocervical region. The
ectocervical os is 1.4 cm in diameter. The endocervical canal is 4.0 cm in length. The endometrial cavity measures
8.0 cm in length and up to 7.7 cm in width. The myometrium measures up to 3.6 cm in thickness.

The anterior and posterior endometrium is almost entirely replaced by friable red-tan ﬁmgating tumor that measures
14.0 x 7.7 cm in surface area and almost ﬁlls the endometrial cavity. The tumor extends into the lower uterine
segment and cervical canal in the posterior aspect and is within 1.0 cm in the transformation zone. The tumor
invades into the superﬁcial half of the lower uterine segment/cervix (to within 0.7 cm of the serosal surface). The
main volume of the tumor is in the endometrial cavity and shows maximum invasion of approximately two-thirds of
the uterine wall (within 1.9 cm of the serosa at the superior most aspect of the uterus).
Within the uterus there is one well~circumscribed intramural leiomyoma measuring 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.8 cm. The cut
surface is gray-white ﬁrm and whorled without evidence of hemorrhage, necrosis, or calciﬁcation. The external
cervical 05, the transformation zone, and the anterior endocervical canal are grossly unremarkable. The uninvolved
mucosa is pink-tan and $00 with focal pinpoint hemorrhage. The serosa is pink-tan and smooth without adhesions.
The bilateral parametrial soft tissues are grossly unremarkable.

Ink key: Parametrial soft tissues - black.
Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:

Bl. Anterior cervix — 1

82. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1

B3. Posterior cervix - 1

B4, BS. Posterior lower uterine segment/endocervical canal/tumor - 1 each

B6, B7. Deepest invasion of tumor (superior aspect of uterus), bisected - 1 each
B8, B9. Anterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each

BIO. Posterior uterine corpus with tumor, full-thickness - 1

Bl 1, 812. Uninvolved appearing area of posterior uterine fundus, bisected - 1 each
813, 814. Anterior fundus, bisected - 1 each

315. Right parametrial soﬁ tissue - 1

816. Left parametrial soft tissue - 1

C. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of 5

.am.a.~.e...l,.,i:4‘s~ I....‘. . __ .. 3; ., s. ., ”4;; ._..~.,..,...'.;c;au..s.-Leena...a; W. .. ._.. ,. Jo . L...» V...“ . as. ...c. Lucia”- . .-' .. ..;4.- Aux; ._ '.

 

ie See En ort **********

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 4.3 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm
aggregate of tan-yellow soft fatty tissues. Examination of the fatty tissue reveals pink—tan soft lymph nodes
measuring 1.4 x 0.7 x 0.5 to 1.7 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm. The lymph nodes are trimmed and entirely submitted.

C1. Two lymph nodes - 2

C2. One lymph node, bisected - 2

C3. One lymph node, bisected - 2

D. RIGHT PA

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right PA", and received in formalin is a 3.2 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
tan-yellow soft fatty tissue. Examination of the fatty tissue reveals one pink-tan soft lymph node measuring 1.5 x
0.7 x 0.3 cm. The lymph node is trimmed and entirely submitted.

D1. 1

E. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 4.7 x 4.2 x 1.7 cm
aggregate of tan-yellow soft fatty tissue. Within the fatty tissue is one pink—tan soft ovoid lymph node measuring
2.5 x 1.7 x 0.8 cm. The lymph node is trisected and entirely submitted.

El-E3. 1 each

F. LEFT OBTURATOR
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left obturator", and received in formalin is a 10.2 x 3.2 x 2.0 cm portion of
tan-yellow soft fatty tissue. Examination of the fatty tissue reveals eight pink-tan soft lymph nodes measuring 0.8 to
2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are trimmed and entirely submitted.
Fl. Three lymph nodes - 3
F2. Three lymph nodes - 3
(3 F3. One lymph node, bisected - 2
F4. One lymph node, bisected - 2

3 ”Q

G. LEFT PA

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left PA", and received in formalin is a 5.0 x 4.5 x 1.7 cm aggregate of tan-
yellow soft fatty tissues. Examination of the fatty tissue reveals ten pink-tan soft lymph nodes measuring 0.5 to 2.0
cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are trimmed and entirely submitted.

G1. Three lymph nodes - 3

G2. Three lymph nodes - 3

GS. Two lymph nodes - 2

G4. Two lymph nodes - 2

1-1. LEFT COMMON lLlAC

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left common iliac", and received in formalin is a 6.0 x 3.3 x 1.8 cm
portion of tan-yellow soft fatty tissue. Examination of the fatty tissue reveals four pink-tan soft lymph nodes
measuring 0.5 to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are trimmed and entirely submitted.

H 1. Two lymph nodes - 2

H2. One lymph node, bisected - 2

H3. One lymph node, bisected - 2

l. OMENTUM #1 _
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #1", and received in formalin is a 15.0 x 4.2 x 1.8 cm portion of

tan—yellow soft adipose tissue. The cut surfaces show tan-yellow soft adipose tissue without evidence of tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.
11. 2

.1. OMENTUM #2

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 4 of5

 

./-1.

 

 

   

se See End of Re ort **********
PATH #:

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #2", and received in formalin is a 15.7 x l 1.0 x 1.2 cm portion
of tan-yellow soﬂ fatty tissue. Cut sections show one gray-white ﬁrm calciﬁc nodule measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm.
The remaining cut surfaces consist of soft adipose tissue without lesions. The entire calciﬁc nodule and
representative sections of the fatty tissue are submitted.

11. Omentum - 2

12. Calciﬁc nodule, bisected, entirely submitted - 2

K. OMENTUM #3
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "omentum #3", and received in formalin is a 13.1 x 9.3 x 1.5 cm portion of
tan-yellow soft fatty tissue. The cut surfaces show tan-yellow soft grossly unremarkable adipose tissue No tumor is

seen. Representative sections are submitted.
K1. 2

Gross dictated by

OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS): ,

SPECIMEN A: RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY:
- Bisected ovary, grossly unremarkable.

SPECIMEN B: UTERUS AND CERVIX:
- Endometrial cavity ﬁlled with soft friable tumor masses.
, MD.)

If this report includes immunohistochemical test results, please note the following:
Numerous immunohislochemical [95's ‘vprn dpvplnned and their performance characteristics determined by

. Those immunohistochemical tests have not been cleared or approved by the
US. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). and FDA approval is not required.

I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
-..D. Electronically signed ‘

Addendum

There is heterogeneous staining for ER, less staining for PR, and rare cells that stain positive for
CK5/6 in the endometrioid component.

1 have personallv examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
‘. Electronically signec

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 5 of 5

'1“

leviewer Initials Reviewed:

 

