  

Gilli—664791

Material examined:
Right lung
Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma right central lower lobe, large—cell carcinoma

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Right lung: inﬂated, ﬁxed right lung measuring 14 x 12 cm at the base and up to 26 cm high, central
bronchus resection plane located 1 cm upstream of the upper lobe bronchus. Dorsomedial and basal pleura over
810 shows an area of max. 7.5 x 4 cm with roughening or residual adhesion, in the basal region over S7 is a 3
cm similar area, Intermediate bronchus in the region of the middle lobe bronchus bifurcation and proximal
sections of the bronchi of the basal group narrowed by a moderately ﬁrm, predominantly pale brownish—white
tumor with small patches of grayish—black pigmentation, max. 4.7 cm in size, with unclear and arcuate
demarcation, with the main mass in 810 and adjacent sections of 86, S7 and SQ, extending to within 0.2 cm of
the medial visceral pleura over 810. Truncation of B9 and B10 and also a subsegmental branch of B7 in the
tumor. Focal crossing of lower pleural ﬁssure and inﬁltration of middle lobe. In the tumor environment some
satellite foot up to 0.2 cm in size. Peripheral sections of basal bronchial branches dilated and ﬁlled with thick
mucus. Parenchyma below the adhesion zone over 810 shows diffuse induration and a brown vitreous
appearance. in the mediocaudal region of the upper lobe bronchus bifurcation next to the pulmonary artery a 2.5
cm node ﬁrmly adherent to the vascular wall with predominantly whitish section surfaces and extension right up
to the hilar resection surface, not continuity wit tumor. At the intermediate bronchus a 0.7 cm node part
suggestive of a tumor, next to the lower lobe bronchus part a 0.5 cm grayish-black node. Apical parenchyma in
81 shows a seam—like area of induration and grayish—brown discoloration up to 0.4 cm wide.

2.) Par-aesophageal LN (station 8): 1.2 cm node.

3.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 1.4 cm node part with abundant surrounding tissue.

4.) High paratracheal LN (station 2) right: 1.4 cm node with abundant surrounding tissue and in parts whitish
section surfaces suggestive of tumor.

5.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 3.8 cm node with some surrounding tissue and in parts whitish section surfaces
suggestive of tumor.

6.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.2 cm node part and a 0.9 cm lesioned node.

Examined:

1.) a: Tumor with rest ofparenchyma and satellite focus, 1): tumor with B10, c: 2 sections of tumor with pleura,
d: lower pleural ﬁssure (middle lobe part color-marked), e: node at upper lobe bronchus bifurcation with hilar
resection surface (color-marked), f: 810 mediobasal, g: 81 apical and node part intermediate bronchus, h:
central bronchus resection plane and resection margins of vessels and also node at lower lobe bronchus,

2.), 3.) + 6.) All material (in 3.) lamellated),

4.) Node (lamellated),

5.) 2 sections,

13 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS.

Microscopy

Re 1.) Tumor made up to solid structures of large atypical epithelia, densely packed in parts, with copious,
mostly stained cytoplasm with the inclusion of isolated very large, otherwise often round, occasionally
deformed nuclei containing granular chromatin and always prominent nucleoli. Ap0ptoses, not uncommonly
several mitoses per markedly enlarged visual ﬁeld (ﬁeld length 0.61 mm). Occasionally a vague epidermoid
layer, often intercellular ﬁssures and isolated visible bridges. No mucin inclusion. In places a dissociation of the
tumor cell structures. Smaller areas of necrosis. Affected lung parenchyma partly destroyed, likewise a

 

relatively a large bronchus here, strand of cartilage remaining. A further large bronchus partially inﬁltrated and
involved in the tumor, likewise in this area smaller bronchi and bronchioles whose lumen is partly dilated, the
original respiratory epithelium replaced by tumor epithelium. In adjacent region tumor cell nests and formations
of small tumor lie freely in alveoli, also tumor cell structures in dilated lymph vessels. Vascularized interlobular
septa. between the tumor formations partly loose, partly ﬁber—rich, collagenous connective tissue with
accumulation of inﬂammatory cells. Isolated small vessels here, walls thickened by elastosis and containing
tumor cells. A larger vein surrounded, loose capillary-containing ﬁber tissue in the lumen. Between peripheral
tumor margin and visceral pleura on the medial side a strip of free lung parenchyma with partly deﬁcient
atelectasis and thickened alveolar septa. Lower pleural ﬁssure and partly fused visceral pleura demarcating or
covering this ﬁssure transcended by tumor, where large bronchi are invaded to within close proximity of the
mucosa. Large tumor node next to the upper lobe bronchus bifurcation, enclosed anthracotic pigment, tumor
cell nests here at the resection margin. in the mediastinal tissue a further tumor—compromised lymph node with
anthracotic pigment deposits and otherwise ﬁbrous growth of connective tissue. in subpleural region of SI a ﬂat
remodeling zone of the lung parenchyma with development of collagenous and elastic connective tissue, with
alveolar stroma still partly recognizable. Nearby tiny radial areas of interstitial ﬁbrosis with small patches of
accumulated anthracotic pigment. In the basal lOWer lobe am relatively large area of nonoxygenated, ﬁbrosed
lung parenchyma with inclusion of partly obliterated smaller, partly patent vessels and hronchioles. Overlying
pleura markedly enlarged and ﬁbrotic. Otherwise here and there in dilated peripheral airways mucus and
leukocytes and also a small cluster of pigment-storing macrophages in the alveoli. At the bronchus resection
margin, sections of mucosal epithelium are interrupted, otherwise regular. Here as in the walls of the large
pulmonary vessels no evidence of tumor cells. Lymph node at the hilus with isolated secondary follicles, slight
plaque of anthracotic pigment and feel of large macrophages.

Re 2.) — b.) Partly preserved lymph nodes with few secondary follicles, varying degrees of anthracotic pigment
deposits, accumulation of macrophages and isolated secondary follicles. In parts, lymph nodes are largely
occupied by solid epithelial tumor. In places, tumor manifestation also in the paranodal tissue. At one point and
in a larger lymph node only very small areas occupied by tumor cell nests.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Central bronchopulmonary, histologically largely undifferentiated, large—cell squamous cell carcinoma of the
right lower lobe of the lung (C4) with overgrowth of the interlobar ﬁssure and continuous growth into the
adjacent section of the middle lobe and also several in some cases large lymph node metastases. Tumor
classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pN3 Ll V1 Rl, stage llIB. C343 M80708.

Secondary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Peripheral bronchiolectasia in the lower lobe, relatively large ﬁbrous cicatricial remodeling zone in 810
mediobasal and similar ﬂat subpleural cicatricial zones in SI apical. Local high-grade pleural ﬁbrosis over 810.
Tumor—associated inﬂammation and small tumor necroses. Slight anthracotic pigment deposits in the lung
parcnchyma and relatively marked in some lymph nodes.

Remarkfaddendum:

The main mass of the carcinoma lies in 810. Centrally it has grown as far as the bifurcations of the lower lobe
main bronchus and the middle lobe bronchus, without these being destroyed or constricted. The tumor invasion
of small blood vessels only concerns the focal region, the lymphangioinvasion is more marked and is also
located in the vicinity of the tumor focus. The RI classiﬁcation is based on the ﬁnding that carcinoma nests in
the large involved lymph nodes next to the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus extend to the mediastinal
resection plane. Further lymph node metastases are seen at the intermediate bronchus in the mediastinum and
also in the lymph nodes located under 4.) — 6.). The pN3 classiﬁcation is also made with regard to the previous
ﬁnding with carcinoma cell structures in the ﬁne needle aspiration biopsy from LN4 left (according to clinical
data).

 

