 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Right peivic lymph nodes. excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.
Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

. Right and left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Two of ﬁve lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.

0

. Prostate. prostatectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
. Prostate size: 71.5 grams, 4.8 x 4.8 x 4.8 cm.
. Tumor quantitalion: Tumor occupies approximately 75% of prostate volume.
. Gleason grade:
3. Primary pattern: 415.
b. Secondary patient: 415.
c. Total Gleason score: 8110.
Extraprostatic extension: Not deﬁnitively seen.
. Seminal vesicle involvement: Present.
Lyrnphovascular space invasion: Present.
. High grade PIN: PresenL
Surgical Margin Status:
1. Tumor extends to inked apex and base margins as well as focally to the inked surface most prominently the left anterior portion.
Lymph Node Status:
1. See parts A, B.
Other:
1. pTNM stage: pTBb N1.

awn—r.

mﬁme

CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Prostate cancer

Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Right peivic lymph node with frozen section
B. Right and lelt pelvic lymph nodes

C. Prostate

SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in three containers labeled with the patients name,

Container A is additionally labeled "#1" and contains a 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm, yellow-tan, ﬁrm, fatty nodule consistent with possible lymph node. This node
is bisected and submitted for frozen section. The residual is entirely resubmitted for permanent section in cassette A1 labeled On
further palpation. an additional nodule is identiﬁed possibly consistent with lymph node, 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. All rEITIHIIIIIlg tissue .uuuding this
nodule is submitted in cassette A2.

Container B is additionally labeled "right and left pelvic lymph nodes” and contains a 5.7 x 3.0 x 2.0 an aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbroiatrv soft tissue ﬁn

 

 

al ation, ﬁve ﬁrm fatty possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.4 up to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. They'are‘m‘ﬁ
gasrsettes 31-4 lab?" designated as follows: 81 three whole possible lymph node; 32 one whole possuble bisected lymph node; 33-4

one whole possible quaurisecreo lymph node.

Container C is additionally labeled "prostate" and contains a ?1 .5 gm, 4.8 x 4.8 x 4.8 cm prostate received with attached bilateral adnexa havrng overall
dimensions of 4.0 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm. The prostatic capsule is pink—tan and shaggy. The specimen is inked as follows: right side blue and left Side black.
The base and apical margins are coned and serially sectioned. The remainder of the specimen is serially sectioned from apex to base to reveal a pink-
tan. family cystic cut surface with periunethial nodularity. The cut surface features diffuse induration located pnmanly on the left half, however a well
deﬁned mass is not identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 01-18 labeled eSIgnated as follovvs: 1 right .
prostatelseminal vesicle junction; 2 left prostatelseminal vesicle junction; 3-4 apical margin, perpemrcura. , o-u lac-2:3 margin, perpendicular; 7—9 right
anterior, apex to base; 10-12 right posterior, apex to base; 13—15 left anterior ; 16-18 leﬂ pcstenor, apex to base. Additionally, a yellow.
reen and blue cassettes are submitted for genomics research, each label

PERATIVE CONSULTATION:

 

 

 

 

 

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS PART A: Tumor not seen ._ __ _.______

 

