 

—CLINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

__ I "s“

 

 

 

!

 

 

 

 

l_ Surgical Pathologijopath) \fﬁ Final
Path Report Final
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
ACCESSION NO. :—
Final Diagnosis(es):
A) Liver biopsy:
1) Negative for malignancy.
2) No intrinsic liver disease.
(B) "Lymph node", peripancreatic, biopsy: Peritoneal cyst,
benign.
(C) Stomach, subtotal gastectomy:
1) Adenocarcinoma, diffuse type, poorly differentiated.
2) 14 out of 30 perigastric lymph nodes involved by
metastatic tumor (14/30). _
3) Pathologic stage: pT4aN33 (see Synoptic report,
below).
D) Omentum, omentectomy:
1) Adipose and fibrovascular tissue.
2) Negative for malignancy.
Synoptic Report:
Specimen: Stomach.
Procedure: Subtotal gastrectomy.
Tumor Site: Body, lesser curvature.
Tumor Size:
Greatest Dimension: 6.8 cm.
Additional Dimensions: 4.8 x 2.0 cm.
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, diffuse type.
Histologic Grade: GB: Poorly differentiated.
Microscopic Extent of Tumor: Tumor penetrates serosa (visceral
peritoneum).
Margins:
Proximal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Omentai (Radial) Margins: Uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma.
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin
(proximal margin): 18 mm
Treatment Effect: Not known.
Lymphvascuiar invasion: Present.
Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor: pT4a: Tumor invades serosa (visceral
peritoneum).
Regional Lymph Nodes: pN3a: Metastasis in 7 to 15
perigastric lymph nodes.
Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 30
Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 14
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable.

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

-LINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

“- tM

 

 

! Surgical Pathology (Copath) 9% Final

Comments:
Cytokeratin (MAKﬁ) immunohistochemistry stains were performed
on blocks C15 and C18, and highlight metastatic tumor cells in

limih nodes.

  

Electronicilli iliied

(Fellow)
Specimen(s) Received:
A: Liver biopsy
B: Peripancreatic node
C: Subtotal gastectomy
D: Omentum
Clinical History:
Stomach cancer.

iCi Stitch marks proximal margin)

ntraoperative Consultation:

Time Received: 11:07

Time Reported: 11:27

FSA1—FSA2: Liver, no malignancy (2 blocks).

FSC1-FSC4: Subtotal gastrectomy: Chronic inflammation, no

tumor (4 blocks).

 

 

Gross Description:

(A) (liver biopsy - FS) Received fresh for frozen section
evaluation are innumerable fragments and/or cores of soft brown
tissue having aggregate dimensions of 1.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. A
portion is submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassettes
FSA1 and FSA2 with the remainder submitted entirely in cassette
A3.

(B) (peripancreatic node) Received in formalin is a single

tan, rubbery to soft, and focally fiuctuant nodule that is 1.1 x

0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and expresses greasy,
yellow, thin fluid. it is entirely submitted in cassette B1.

(C) (subtotal gastrectomy - FS)

Specimen components and dimensions: Received fresh for frozen
section evaluation is a portion of stomach measuring 19.5 cm
along the greater curvature, 12.3 cm along the lesser curvature,
having a staple line at the proximal end, 9.0 cm long and at the
distal end 2.5 cm long. Attached to the greater curvature is
gastroomentai fat measuring 28.0 x 8.0 x 2.0 cm and along the
lesser curvature cardiac fat that is 9.0 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm.

Size, appearance, and location of tumor: 6.8 distal to proximal
by 4.8 cm up to 2.0 cm deep centered along the lesser curvature
within the body of the stomach extending up to the antrum.

i . \ Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

_CLINICAL MANAGER

Patient Results

l! '
_ Surgical Pathology (Copath) a Final]

Description of tumor: Ulcerative, endophytic and invasive. The
posterior aspect of the serosai surface shows focal adhesed
omental fat, red‘purple discoloration that is inked indigo.

Closest resection margins and distance: The proximal margin
near the lesser curvature, the tumor appears to be within 1.8

cm.

Gross impression of invasive growth: Deep to the inked serosai
margin and corresponding involvement with the lymph nodes within
the cardiac lymph node packet.

Other ﬁndings: None.

Uninvolved tissues: The gastric mucosa has normal rugae and
tenacious brown mucoid material without additional polyps, ulcer
or mass.

Lymph nodes attached: From the cardiac lymph node packet are 24
gray-tan, rubbery to firm lymph nodes from 0.3 to 1.8 cm in
greatest dimension and an additional 11 black to pale gray-pink,
rubbery to soft lymph nodes within the gastroomentai lymph node
packet measuring from 0.3 to 1.9 cm in greatest dimension.

Blocks submitted: Representative sections are taken from the
proximal margin that is inked black with FSC1 anterior proximal
margin, FSCZ posterior proximal margin, F303 and FSC4 represent
distal margin, C5-C6 remaining proximal margin near the greater
curvature.

C7-C12 - representative sections of tumor with C11 distal

interface and C12 proximal interface

C13-C14 - nonneoplastic stomach

C15—C18 - lymph nodes from cardiac lymph node packet with four
lymph nodes in C15, six lymph nodes in C16 and C17, and eight
lymph nodes in C18

C19-C20 - lymph nodes from gastroomentai packet with four lymph
nodes in C19 and seven lymph nodes in C20

(D) (omentum) Received in formalin is a 13.5 x 13.0 x 6.0 cm
portion of finely lobular, pale yellow, fatty tissue and

reticulating red-gray, ﬁbrovascular tissue. Sections show no

tumor or area of induration. Re resentative sections are
submitted in cassettes Dl—D5.

Microscopic Description:

Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed.'—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of iH antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their erformance charac ' ‘ '

rney nave not been cleared by the US

Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

—CLINICAL MANAGER

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results
— I - -
l
Surgical Pathology (Copath) 3 FinalJ

 

 

tests are not investigational and are used in standard clinical

care. in cases where lmmunohistochemistry testing is performed,

the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used

to determine therapy for the patient: EFGR(31 G7), ER(SP1),

PR(1 E2), Her2neu(485), CD117(Poiy), CD20(L26).

Unless othenivise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by lHC, Her2 by lHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as
er ANP.22998 for a minimum of - and a maximum of-

ER, PR, Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi—quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her—2/neu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or cemplete strong staining in less than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless othen/vise stated in the report.

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

