Date Printed:

UUID‘.’ 887CA2T1D- -BC5F?- -446A1A--_B::4 -98147E569emac w 32:32:32: :
lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIICIIad " ears ex: 3 .n o :
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII " ’ s M ‘5 mm” ~"
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIII II IIII IIII IIIIII I II I || II III copy to:

 

   

“5.53413‘11 o"a.-"TI%?-s'.ila1110199!21»'3':r&":'9?- . _

~ 1 . 9969/3
Clinical Information 511$ ”03
year old maie patient presents for radical piaureciomy and PDT for mesomeiioma. a 38- £7,

(9%) 9/241)! 5

Final Diagnosis

1. PREVIOUS iNCiSiON SITE, FROZEN SECTION:
Skin and underlying sort Iissue with changes of previous biopsy site and scar formation. no tumor seen.

2. RIB:
Benign iameiiar bone with triiinear bone marrow formation and surrounding soft tissue with foreign body type giant ceii
formation consistent with close previous biopsy site.

3. PARIETAL PLEURA, FROZEN SECTION:
Dense tibroooiiagenous soft tissue with (coal chronic and acute inﬂammation.
No tumor seen.

4. PARIETAL PLEURA:
Fragments of iibroiatiy soft tissue with focal mesotheiiai iining.
No tumor seen.

5. LEVEL 6:
Sections of iymph node, no tumor seen.

6 PERICARDIAL FAT:
Fibrofatiy soft tissue with mesotheiiaii ining with focai areas of signiﬁcant Increased proiiferation of mesothelial ceiis
suspicious of focal Invoivement by mesoiheiioma.

7. LEVEL 5:
Sections of Iymph node. no tumor seen.

8. APECAL CHEST MASS, FROZEN SECTION:

Tumor noduie with presence of maiignant mesmheiioma, epithelioid type.

T he iumor is present within the lung parenchyma and shows a iocai presence of a pseudo capsuio.
In other areas the tumor nodules are invading directiy into alveoiar Eung parenohyma.

No tumor seen at stapeied resection margin of specimen.

Tumor is positive for cairoiinin, 0K7, 02-40 (Iocai),CK5/6 (focal), AEi-S and negative for CD15. TTFi. CEA, M0631 and
WT1 consistent with the diagnosis of mesoiheiioma

9. PERiPHFIENiC TISSUE;
Fibroiatty soft tissue with superficial mesotheiiai ﬁning.

‘ Name Page i of 6
MRN

Date Printed: ,
Dam Collected
Date Received-
yoars Sex: Male Accession Alma
Physician:
Copy to:

 

 

= a: :z-‘sr'a' 'r 2 a 1.. n 1.: fat! "33315503195173-

    

The mosotneliai lining. shows, in areas, prominent proliferation and pieomorphism suspicious of local involvement by
malignant mosotheiioma.
Prominent foreign body type giant cells identified.

10. LEVEL 9:
Fragments of fibrofatty soft tissue, no tum or seen.
Section of small lymph node, no tum or seen.

i t. POSTEREOR lNTERCOSTAL:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.

12. VlSCEFiAL PLEURA:

Sections of fibrous soft tissue with mesothelial lining and prominent giant cell formation.

The mesothelium is, in areas, prominently proliferative with pieomorphic changes suspicious for local involvement with
mesotheiioma

13. LEVEL 8:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.

1 4. LEVEL 7:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.
Fibrotatzy soft tissue with accumulation of mesothelial cells not diagnostic for malignant lumoc.

15. VISCERAL PLEURA (STITCH MARKS NODULE):

Sections oi visceral pleura with prominent foreign body type giant cells and lined by mesothelium with focal prominent
proliferation of mesotheiium.
No definite tumor seen.

i 6. PHRENlC MODE:
Sections oi tymph node, no tumor seen.

17. PERICARDIAL TlSSUE:
Soft tissue with presence of mesothoiloma.

18. DlAPHRAGMATiC PLEUHA:
ﬁlamtatty soft tissue with focal mesotheliai lining and local mesotheiiai hyperplasia, no definite tumor seen.

Narnia; “ Page 2 of 6
MRN:

K Na Date Printed:
,’ I MRN. Date Collected

! I, “ Date Received:
DOB: Ace: years Sex: Male Won Non

Loo: Physician: Fn‘ec V

Copy to: 1’

 

5 as r g 151:; '1 rl if “a-.7li’iié‘ni’l-ﬁéﬁ cg

    

Selective slides reviewed with

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by: ; _
(Electronic siennture)
Verification Date: '

Note

Disclaimer:
The above in—vitro lHC tests may have used reagents labeled for NO (in Vitra Diagnostic Use), lUO (lnvestigatlonal Use
Only) and/or RUO (Research Use Only) and have not been cleared or approved by the us Food and Drug
Administration. However, the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for ASH class t tests
intended to provide pathologists with adjunctive lntorrnatlon to assist their morphologic evaluation. The tests using MS or
we reagents were developed and their performance characteristics were validated tor diagnostic use by the

' _ _. , . This laboratory is
regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments 0! 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical tests. These Class l ASH tests are not intended to provide diagnostic, prognostic, predictive or therapeutic
information that is not directly conﬁrmed by routine histopathologic internal or extremal control specimens.

Frozen Section Diagnosis

F34: incision site: Skin and soar, no tumor seen.

FS—Z: Parietal pleura: Fibrous tissue with surrounding reactive and atypical mesotheiiai cell proliferation. No deﬁnite
invasive pattern seen. (Seen with

FS-S: Chest mass; No definite tumor seen at lung margin of specimen.

Gross Description
The specimens are received in eighteen parts faceted with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen tit is received fresh tor frozen section and labeled “previous incision site‘. The specimen
consists of a 10.4 x 1,2 cm skin ellipse excised to a depth of 1.6 cm. The skin surface is ten grey,
wrinkled and displays an ill defined linear scar which surteoce the entire length ot‘ the specimen.
Representative sections are submitted for frozen section and the frozen section control is submitted
in cassette 1A. Additional representative sections are submitted in cassette 18.

Name. Page 3 of 6
MRN:

Date Printed:
Date Collected
Date Received:
Accession N01
Physician:
Copy to:

 

 

' s a r; 1 a a1am‘1':-'=.r'>a..;«;-.~1user-" n

    

Specimen #2 is received in formalin and labeled “rib“. The specimen consists of three cylindrical portions of firm and
trabeculated bone ranging from 5.6 cm to 6.0 cm in length and averaging

i.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning reveals grossly unremarkabie out surfaces. No discrete masses or lesions are
grossly identified.

A representative section is submitted in cassette 2A foliowing decalclfication.

Specimen #3 is received fresh for frozen section and labeled “parietal pleura“. The specimen consists of a 1.1 x 0.6 x 0.3
cm irregular fragment of ten white to tan yellow, rubbery soft tissue which is submitted in toto in cassette 3A.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin and iabeled “parietal pleura“. The specimen consists of a

7.2 x 5.4 x 2.5 cm aggregate of multiple irregular and ragged fragments of grey purple to tan yellow. wrinkled soft tissue.
Focal areas of muscle are identified. The outer surfaces are grossly unremarkable with no discrete masses or nodules
identified. _

Representative sections of muscle are submitted in cassette 4A.

Representative sections from the remainder of the specimen are submitted in cassettes 48 through 4D.

Specimen #5 is received in formalin and labeled “Level 6'. The specimen consists of two ten gray to yellow tan, nodular
soft tissue fragments measuring 0.6 cm and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. '
The specimen is submitted in tale in cassette 5A.

Specimen #8 is received in formalin and labeled ‘perlcardtal tet". The specimen consists of tour irregular fragments of ten
yellow to grey purple, coarsely tabulated adipose tissue ranging from '

2.4 cm to 6.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning reveals two indurated, locally nodular areas measuring 0.5 cm and 0.6
cm in greatest dimension. The remaining cut sunacee are ten yellow and grossly unremarkable.

The nodular areas are submitted entirety In cassette 6A.

Representative sections from the remainder of the specimen are submitted in cassette SB.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin and labeled "Level 5". The specimen consists of a 2.8 x
2.4 x 1.0 cm nodular and lndurated soft tissue fragment which is bisected and submitted entirely in cassettes M and 7B.

Specimen #8 is received fresh for frozen section and labeled "apical chest mass'. The specimen

consists of an 83 gram (foiicwing formalin fixation), 7.5 x 8.9 x 4.5 cm nodular soft tissue fragment which displays a 9.5
cm in length staple line along one aspect of the specimen. The specimen is incised at time of frozen section to reveal a
6.6 x 6.5 x 4.5 cm tan white, firm nodule which grossly abuts the visceral pleura.)0n one aspect of the nodule, there is a
5,5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm toms of red brown. grossly unremarkable lung parenohyma attached.

The tissue adjacent to the stapled resection margin is submitted for frozen section and additional representative sections
are submitted as follows:

Block 8A Frozen section control

Block 88 True resection margin

Blocks 8C,80 Hepresentatlve mass

Block 8E Mass in relation to uninvolved lung parenohyma

' Date Printed:

Date Collected
. Date Received:
, . years Sex: Male Accession Non;
Loc.: Physician
Copy to:

  

 

“s "to Til}! 1:1“: 2. I“:‘3:11:23531314337in sis-11. ‘

 

Specimen #9 is received in formalin and labeled “peripnrenic tissue“. The specimen consists or

two irregular and ragged fragments of grey purple to tan yellow, coarsely tabulated sott tissue measuring 7.9 cm and 16.8
cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning reveals grey purple to tan white, focally dense and fibrous cut surfaces with a large
amount of yellow tan. coarsely lobulatod adipose tissue. No discrete masses or nodules are grossly identified.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 9A through 90.

Specimen #10 is received in formalin and labeled “Level 9". The specimen consists of a
0.8 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm tan grey to tan yellow. nodular soft tissue fragment which is submitted
in toto in cassette 10A.

Specimen #11 is received in iomalin and labeled "posterior iniercostal“. Tho'specimen consists
of a 1,2 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm tan yellow nodular soft tissue fragment which is submitted in toto in
cassette 11A.

Specimen #12 is received in formalin and labeled "visceral pleura“. The specimen consists of two irregular and ragged
fragments of grey purple. wrinkled soft tissue tissue. Ono of the tragments displays a 1.0 cm in greatest dimension
intimated focus which is sectioned to reveal tan white to tan yellow, firm out surfaces. The remaining fragments display a
0.7 cm stellate tan white focus of tissue. ‘

No other discrete masses or nodules are identified.

The induratod nodular areas are submitted in cassettes 12A and 123.

Additional representative section is submitted in 120.

Specimen #13 is received in formalin and labeled ”Level 8“. The specimen consists of a
0.9 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm tan grey, nodular soft tissue fragment which is submitted in toto in cassette 13A.

Specimen #14 is received in formalin and labeled "Level 7“. The specimen consists of two grey tan to tan yellow, nodular
soft tissue fragments measuring 1.0 cm and t1 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is submitted in into in one cassette labeled 14A.

Specimen #15 is received in formalin and labeled “visceral pleura, stitch marks nodule“. The specimen consists of a 9.5 x
1.1 x 0.7 cm ragged and irregular fragment of grey purple, wrinkled and glistening soft tissue which has been oriented by
the surgeon with a stitch denoting a 0.5 cm in greatest dimension tan white, induratcd nodule. The remaining cut surfaces
are grossly unremarkable with no discrete masses or lwions identified. On one aspect of the specimen is a 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension focus. of red brown, spongy possible lung parenchyma.

The nodular area is submitted entirely in one cassette labeled 15A.

Additional representative sections of the remainder of specimen submitted in cassettes 158 and 15C.

Specimen #16 is received in formalin and labeled "chronic nodc‘i The specimen consists of two yellow tan, nodular soil
tissue fragments measuring 1.0 cm and 1.2 cm in greatost dimensionIho largest fragment is bisected and the specimen

is submitted ontirefy in cassette 16A.
Nam Page 5 of 6’
MEN;

  

Name: V Date Printed:

MRN: 4 Date Collected :
Date Recdiv '

DOB: Ade: years Sex: Male Won Nd

Lac: Physician: i.
Copy to:

 

.Rot-5:1!“I!his.s-é:(i~a§ffié.,. . .’ '

 

Specimen #1713 received in formalin and labeled “pericardial tissue". The specimen consists of four irregular fragments at
grey purple, wrinkled soft tissue ranging from 0.3 cm to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is submiﬁed in into in cassette 17A.

Specimen #18 is received in formalin and labeled “diaphragmatic pleura“. The specimen consists of

a 9.0 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm ragged and irregular strip of grey purple, wrinkled soft tissue which displays a

1.0 cm in greatest dimension area oi induration which is sectioned to raves: tan white, dense cut surfaces.
The area of induration is submitted entirely in cassette 18A.

Additional representative sections are submitted in cassette 188.

Dicmtcd by:

Pathologisﬂs)

Name" Page 6 0f 6
MRN: .

HIFAA
Prior

Case is

lmlials

 

 

