FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy: Papillary
serous carcinoma,

poorly-differentiated; see comment.

B. Right ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:

--Ovary: Papillary serous carcinoma, poorly—differentiated; see
comment.

-—Fallopian tube: No tumor.

C. Liver implant, excision: Metastatic poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma,

consistent with ovarian primary; see comment.

D. Sigmoid colon, implant, excision: Metastatic poorly differentiated
papillary serous

carcinoma, consistent with ovarian primary.

E. Uterus and cervix, hysterectomy:

-—Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.

-—Endometrium: Inactive.

-—Myometrlum: Intramuscular benign cellular lelomyoma.

-—Serosa: Metastatic poorly differentiated papillary serous
carcinoma, consistent with ovarian primary.

F. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision: No tumor in seven lymph nodes
(0/7).

G. Lymph nodes, left periaortic, excision: No tumor in eleven lymph
nodes (0/11).

H. Lymph nodes, right periaortic, excision: No tumor in five lymph

nodes (0/5).
Page 1 of 5

     

I. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision: No tumor in ten lymph nodes
(0/10).

J. Appendix, appendectomy: No significant pathologic abnormality, no
tumor.

K. Omentum, resection: Metastatic poorly differentiated papillary
serous carcinoma,

consistent with ovarian primary.

L. Liver, implant, #2, excision:

Metastatic poorly differentiated papillary serous carcinoma, consistent
with ovarian

primary.

COMMENT:

 

 

    

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic omment
1. Type of tumor: Papillary serous carcinoma; Bilateral.

2. Grade of tumor: III/III, Bilateral; High grade (Poorly differentiated);

Left/Points Right/Points

Architecture 3(>50% Solid) 2(>50% Papillary)

Nuclear Grade 3 3

Mitosis(Per 10HPF) 3(31/10HPF) 3(28/10HPF)

3. Location of tumor: Bilateral ovaries.

4. Diameter of tumor: Left—-12.5 cm; Right——10.0 cm.

5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Multinodular, alternating solid and soft,

papillary, and friable.

6. Condition of capsule: Bosselated but smooth.

7. Appearance of cut surface: Multinodular, solid and friable.

8. Color of solid areas: White-tan.

9. Necrosis: Present. _

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not present.

11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: The serosa of the uterus.

12. Pelvic lymph nodes: No carcinoma is identified in seventeen lymph nodes ,
(0/17). ;
13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Liver, Sigmoid colon, and omentum. i
14. Para—aortic lymph nodes: No carcinoma is identified in sixteen lymph nodes

(0/16).

15. Peritoneal cytology: Ascites showin suspicious clusters of malignant cells.

Cytology accession number: i

16. Other significant findings: None.

17. FIGO stage: III.

18. TNM stage: at least pr3NOMX (could be T3c, based on size of macroscopic

peritoneal metastasis, part

L was received in fragments)

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was

performed on block A8.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is 3+ nuclear staining in 10% of

tumor cells.

The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in tumor

cells.

Result of Her—Z/neu test: This ovarian carcinoma is negative for Her-Z/neu

oncoprotein over—expression.
An immunohistochemicai assay was performed on block A8 using the C811 monoclonal antibody to Her—
2/neu oncoprotein. The

staining intensit of this carcinoma was 0 on a scale of 0—3 with focal cytoplasmic staining only (Her~2 test
interpretehl.
Carcinomas wit staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of Her—

2/neu oncoproteln.
Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered borderline. We and others have observed that

many carcinomas with staining
Page 2 of 5

intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are
therefore submitted for

FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.
Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of Her-Zineu
oncoprotein. Tumors in this

category show an excellent correlation between the results of lmmunohlstochemical and FISH testing, and
almost always show gene

amplification.

  

B:Right ovary and tube (FS)
C:Liver implant

D:Sigmoid implant

E:Uterus and cervix

F:Left pelvic lymph node
G:l_eft periaortic lymph node
HzRight periaortic lymph node
I:Right pelvic lymph node
3:Appendix

K:Omentum

L:Liver implant #2

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F81 iAi Left ovarii biopsy: High grade carcinoma, probably serous papillary. (Dr.
F52 iBl Rliht ovariI biopsy: High grade carcinoma, probably serous papillary.(Dr.

Clinical Histor

This patient is ith stage III ovarian carcinoma, who
undergoes a modified radical

hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic and periaortic lymph node
dissection, appendectomy,

omentectomy, tumor debulking, excision of implants on the liver.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in twelve parts, each labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Part A, additionally labeled "left ovary and tube," consists of a 250-gram, 12.5 x 9.5
x 9.0 cm ovarian mass

with no grossly identifiable normal ovarian tissue. The surface of the tumor is
bosselated and contains

grossly visible multiple nodules, some of which are cysts containing yellow—tan,
serous fluid. Cross

sectioning of the mass shows the majority of the tumor is composed of alternating
solid and friable,

papillary—appearing, tan—white areas with multinodular cut surface. There is a 4.0 x
3.5 x 3.5 cm cyst

which was previously opened, with a papillary and hemorrhagic interior surface. The
tumor grossly does

not invade the capsule. A 5.3 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter fallopian tube is
present with

intraluminai soft, friable material and no tumor involvement on the interior wall is
noted. A portion of the

tumor is submitted for frozen section as F51, with the remnant submitted in cassette
A1. Sections are

submitted as follows:

Cassette A2: Fallopian tube.

Cassettes A3-A15: Representative sections of tumor.

Part B, additionally labeled “right ovary and tube," consists of a175 gram, 10.0 x 8.0
x 5.5 cm ovarian

 

 

 

mass with no grossly identifiable normal ovarian tissue. The surface of the tumor is
bosselated and shows

multinodular masses. Cross sectioning of the ovary shows a tumor with solid and soft
friable,

multinodular, tan—white cut surface. A 3.8 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm, serous cyst on the surface
is also present, with

a thin cyst wall and tan—light brown serous fluid. The tumor grossly does not invade
the capsule. A 4.0 cm

in length and 0.4 cm in average diameter fallopian tube is present on the surface of
the tumor. The lumen

of fallopian tube reveals no tumor. The fallopian tube is entirely submitted for
microscopic examination. A

portion of the tumor is submitted for frozen section as F52, with the remnant

submitted in cassette B1.
Page 3 of 5

Sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette 82: Fallopian tube.

Cassettes 83—810: Sections of the tumor.

Cassettes Bil—B13: Fallopian tube.

Part C, additionally labeled "1) liver implant, " is received in formalin and consists of
a single, unoriented,

irregular, firm, friable, lobulated, tan-white soft tissue fragment, measuring 1.8 x 1.4
x 0.7 cm and

weighing 0.5 g. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in
cassettes C1 and C2.

Part D, additionally labeled "3 sigmoid implant (perm)," is received in formalin and
consists of a single,

unoriented, irregular, firm, nodular, tan~white soft tissue fragment with a yolk—yellow
nodule and

brown-red streaks. The specimen measures 2.3 x 1.5 x 1.4 cm and weighs 2.5 9.
Representative sections

are submitted in cassette 01.

Part E, received in formalin and labeled “uterus and cervix," consists of a uterus and
cervix weighing 88 gm

and measuring 7.5 cm from fundus to cervical tip, 5.5 cm from cornu to cornu and
4.5 cm from anterior to

posterior. The serosal surface of the uterus is studded with multiple tumor implants,
the largest

measuring 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. These implants are firm and tan. The
endometrlum,

myometrlum and cervix are not involved. The endocervical canal measures 2.1 cm in
length. The cervical

mucosa is tan and smooth. The ectocervical mucosa is gray-white and unremarkable.
The endometrial

cavity measures 3.6 cm in length, with a diameter of 1.4 cm at the cornu. The
endometrial mucosa is

brown. The endometrlum measures < 0.1 cm. The myometrlum is 1.3 cm in
thickness. The myometrlum

is homogeneous tan. There is a 1.0 cm whorled, tan mass in the fundus of the
myometrium.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes El-EZ: Serosal surface with tumor implant.

    

Cassette E4: Endometrium and myometrlum.

Cassette E5: Representative section of possible intramuscular leiomyoma.

Part F, additionally labeled "6) left pelvic lymph node," consists of six unoriented,
irregular, brown—yellow

soft tissue fragments, measuring 7.2 x 3.5 x 1.4 cm and weighing 8.5 g in
aggregate. Lymph nodes are

identified and entirely submitted (none were bisected) in cassettes F1 through F4.
Part G, additionally labeled "7) left periaortic LN," consists of three unoriented,
irregular, brown~tan soft

tissue fragments, with scant attached yellow fat, measuring 5.3 x 3.9 x 1.4 cm and
weighing 5.5 g in

aggregate. Lymph nodes are identified and entirely submitted (none were bisected)
in cassettes Gl through

G4.

Part H, additionally labeled "8) right periaortic LN," consists of four unoriented,
irregular, firm, tan~brown

soft tissue fragments, measuring 4.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm and weighing 1.5 g in
aggregate. Lymph nodes are

identified and entirely submitted (only the lymph node in cassette H3 was bisected)
in cassettes H1 through

H3.

Part I, additionally labeled ”9) Right pelvic LN,” consists of multiple unoriented,
irregular, brown—tan soft

tissue fragments with moderate amounts of attached yellow fat, measuring 5.7 x 4.0
x 1.3 cm and weighing

6.5 g in aggregate. Lymph nodes are identified and entirely submitted (none were
bisected) in cassettes II

through 13.

Part 3, additionally labeled "10) appendix," consists of a single, firm, unoriented,
irregular, vermiform soft

tissue fragment, measuring 4.3 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm and weighing 2.5 g. The serosa is
tan—brown with yellow

pockets of suppurative material. The specimen is gritty when sectioned and reveals a
pinpoint—lumen,

surrounded by firm, white tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette J1—
33.

Part K, labeled “omentum,” consists of an unoriented, tan—yellow, lobulated fragment
of fibrofatty tissue

measuring 14.0 x 6.5 x 3.0 cm and weighing 175 gm. A tan-gray, firm nodule
measuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm

is identified. No other nodules are noted, and the remainder of the tissue is
composed of tan—yellow,

homogenous parenchyma. The nodule is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette

K1.
Page 4 of 5

Part L, additionally labeled "12) implantation liver #2," consists of four unoriented,
irregular, white-tan soft

tissue fragments, measuring 5.9 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm and weighing 3.0 g in aggregate. No
gross apparent liver

parenchyma is identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassette L1.
The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics

 

 

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and
i" ran. e
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical
purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory

1m rove Amendments of
ﬂ as qualified to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by
attending
pathologist following review of all pathology slides.

   
 

 

