- ”MAIwum.» ..; .m-

 
  
 
 

Srltc rla

Eiagnosis Discrepancy

Puma 1/ Tumor Sire Disrrrrnnc-i

‘5‘,

_l_ilEM DISCIEp-Im'y
Prim ' -
N.

   

Surgical Pathology Report "

Temporary Copy Page 1 of 3
Case: ' . ' Patient
Collected: ID
Ordered by: Location: / C A ’ d ’3
Clinical information WWW/wag w:
Endometriai cancer. X-iap, TAH. BSO. Node dissection. . 3380/3
. . ‘ I
Organ Or Tissue 57"" IVWW 09/-
Uterus, 880 A; [z/Iﬁ/Ii

Left pelvic node

Left pelvic nodes
Left periaortic nodes
Right pelvic nodes
Right periaortic node

Gross Description
The specimen is received in six parts. each labeled with the patient's name.

as follows:

A1 ~ A2 Anterior and posterior cervix
A3 - A4 Anterior and posterior lower uterine segment
A5 — A6 Tumor at anterior lower uterine segment

A8 - A12 Tumor

A13-A14 Fibroids

A15 - A17 Left fallopian tube and ovary
A18 - A20 Right fallopian tube and ovary
A21 Normal tissue for

A22 Tumor tissue for

Part B. is received fresh and is additionally labeled "left pelvic node". it consists of 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm
iece of pink/tan and fatty tissue. The specimen is bisected. and a touch prep is made for

Part C is received unfixed. and labeled "left pelvic nodes“ It consists of an aggregate of tan and fatty
tissue fragments. overall measuring 6 x 3 x 1.0 cm. Three definite lymph nodes are dissected out. one
measuring 1.8 cm in greatest dimension another measuring 3 cm in greatest dimension and a third
measuring 6 cm in greatest dimension and which is very elongated and thin with a maximum diameter
of 0.8 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

UUID:2EE7245F-7069-456A-A215-41E5909FE606
TCGA-AX-AZHH

-91A-PR Redacted
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllillllll
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilliliillllllllllllllllllllllll
illllllllllllllllllllllllllllillilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Surgical Pathology Report

Temporary Cooy Page 2 of 3
Case; Patien'

Collected: l_D

Ordered by: l Location:

C1 One lymph node

CZ One lymph node and fat

C3 - C4 Three lymph nodes. bisected

C5 - C6 Remaining tissue with one lymph node

D1 two lymph nodes
DZ remainderof tissue.

Part E. is received in formalin, and is additionally labeled "right pelvic nodes". it consists of an
aggregate of tan and yellow tissue measuring 4 x 3 x 1.3 cm. Three definitive lymph nodes are
identified. ranging from 4 cm to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The largest node is bisected to show a
fatty replacement. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

E1 - E2 Largest lymph node, bisected

E3 - Two smaller nodes

E4 - E5 Remainder of the specimen with eight lymph nodes

Part F. is received in formalin and is labeled "Right perlaortic nodes". it consists of an aggregate of tan
and yellow tissue measuring 2.5 x 2 x 1 cm. A single lymph node is identiﬁed, which measures 2.5 cm
in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

F1 lymph node

F2 remainder of tissue with one lymph node

Note: tissue was collected for protocol

lntra-Operative Consultation
Left pelvic node (TP1): One cluster of suspicious cells for tumor.

Uterus, BSO ( Gross diagnosis): Large necrotic endometrial tumor invading anterior LUS and posterior
fundus.

Tests performed by

Diagnosis
A. Uterus, total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

- Uterine cervix with transitional metaplasia and endocervical
polyp. No tumor is seen.

- Poorly differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma with
squamous differentiation, invading 1.0 mm of myometrium
and anterior lower uterine segment.

- Focal vascular space tumor invasion is present.

- Extensive adenomyosis.

- Multiple leiomyomata uteri.

- Serosal fibrous adhesions of bilateral ovaries and fallopian

Surgical Pathology Report

Temporarv Copy Page 3 of 3
Case: . ' Patient:
Collected: lL

Ordered by: Location:

tubes with old hemorrhage and granulomatous reactions.
- Atrophic underlying bilateral ovaries.
- Hydatid cyst of Morgagni. right.

8. Left pelvic lymph node, biopsy:
- One lymph node with sinus histlocytosis. No tumor is seen.
C. Left pelvic lymph nodes, biopsy:
- Six lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis. No tumor is seen.
D. Left periaortic lymph node. biopsy:
- Two lymph nodes. No tumor is seen.
E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, biopsy:
- Eleven lymph nodes. No tumor ls seen.
F. Right periaortic lymph node, biopsy:
- Two lymph nodes. No tumor is seen.
Comments
Type of surgery: TAH, 880
Gross size of tumor: 9.0 x 6.0 x 2.5 cm.
Tumor location: Uterine corpus
Histologic type: Endometﬁoid with squamous differentiation
Histologic grade (FIGO): 9
Depth of myometrial invasion: 1.0 mm. over 1.5 cm thickness (7%)
Cervical involvement: Absent
Lower uterine segment involvement: Present
Lymphatic space invasion: Present
Blood vessel invasion: Present
Surgical margins: Negative
Other tumor site(s): None

OTHER ENDOMETRIAL PATHOLOGY: None

Pelvic washings: Negative
LYMPH NODES
Pelvic: 0 of 17 Positive
Para-aortic: 0 of 4 Positive

AJCC (7th Ed. @2010) Stage: pT1aNOMna

