 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE; RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

COPY TO:

 

Pre-Op Diagnosis

Grade Ill endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis

Same as above

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Five parts

Container labeled "—1 - uterus. cervix, bilateral

tubes and ovaries" has a previously laterally opened, moderately
distorted uterus with attached cervix and bilateral adnexa. The

uterus and cervix together weigh 75 grams and on reconstruction
measure approximately 7.4 x 5.0 x 3.2 cm. The cervix has a wrinkled
gray-tan ectocervical mucosa. The os is patent. The uterine canal
sounds to a depth of approximately 5.5 cm. The endocervical canal
is lined by trabeculated gray-brown mucosa. The uterine serosa is
smooth and tan-brown. The myometrium measures up to 2.0 cm and is
gray-pink and ﬁbrotic with a few intramural well deﬁned tan-white
ﬁbrous nodules with bulging whorled tan-white ﬁbrotic cut surfaces
measuring up to 0.5 cm. The endomelrial canal is lined by less than
0.1 cm of smooth brown mucosa. Noted in the left cornual region,-
extending onto the fundus in the posterior aspect, over an area of
approximately 2.2 x 1.5 cm, is a gray-tan slightly tabulated
plaque-like area of discoloration. On sectioning. in the cornual

region this plaque measures focally up to 0.6 cm. This grossly

uum:£scsaer-ua

53-4559- -
c 4343“ 9233 saa7ssnncscr

, , lllllllliiiiirlmimmiiiiiPR ““3““
’“ b 0 '3‘ milullllllllllllllliilllliiiiiiiiiiiiiii'iiil'iii'l'lii'l'iI"

“balmy/Mm”? ,ma’nw/"mm'af Nu; 38.9/3 illilllllllllllillllllliiilllilllillliliilliillillliiiiillllllll
.SifL,-,4MWW 6574-! ,1“) W134“

 

 

exrenos rnro tne myometnum wl it is seen at its nearest point

0.9 cm from the nearest posterior rundic serosa. The parametrial

soft tissue on each side shows no nodularity or gross lesion. The

left fallopian tube measures 6.5 x 1.1 x 1.1 cm and has a smooth
tense outer surface with closed rounded distal end. The wall is
gray-tan and ﬁbrotic with the proximal portion of the tube having a
pinpoint lumen. In the mid and distal half the lumen dilates and
contains gray-tan papilliferous tissue which does not grossly appear
to extend into the well. There is a small amount of transparent

vlscid ﬂuid associated with this region. The left ovary ls 2.4 x

1.8 x 1.0 cm and has a'lobular tan-yellow outer surface with a
mottled tan-gray ﬁbrotic cut surface. The right fallopian tube
measures 4.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm and has a smooth gray~tan serosa with a
closed rounded distal end. On sectioning, there Is a tan wall with a
pinpoint lumen near the proximal end. In the mid and distal areas
there is gray-tan papilliferous tissue with a small amount of vlscid
clear fluid. The right ovary measures 2.2 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm and has a
tubular gray-tan outer surface with a mottled gray-tan ﬁbrotlc cut
surface. Also received in the same container are three tissue
cassettes each labeled " Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A - anterior cervix; B - posterior

cervix; C - lower uterine segment shaved posterior serosa; D-H -
anterior endomyometrium; l-M - posterior endomyometrium; N-O - left
lateral endomyometrium; P—Q ~ right lateral endomyometrium', R-V —
fundic endomyometrium; W - left parametrium: X - right parametrium;
Y - left fallopian tube: Z - left ovary; AA-BB - right fallopian

tube from proximal to distal; CC - right ovary.

Container labeled "-2 - right aortic lymph nodes" has
4.0 x 3.1 x 0.9 cm of tan~yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal several poorly deﬁned tan-yellow
nodules up to 1.8 cm. On sectioning, the largest nodule has a flashy
cut surface. The largest nodule is bisected and submitted labeled A.
Remaining nodules are submitted labeled B.

Container labeled "F - left common iliac nodes" has
3.1 x 2.2 x 0.6 cm of an-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal a few poorly defined tan-yellow

nodules up to 0.7 cm. The nodules are entirely submitted in a single
cassette. '

Container labeled “— 4 ~ right pelvic lymph nodes" has
8.0 x 4.5 x 2.4 cm of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal two poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules, 3.0 and 4.2 cm. On sectioning. these have fleshy tan-pink
cut surfaces with a large amount of intervening yellow adipose
tissue. The smaller portion is bisected and submitted labeled A-B.
The larger portion is sectioned and submitted labeled C-G.

Container labeled "—5 - left pelvic lymph nodes" has
7.6 x 6.0 x 2.8 cm 0 tan—yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which
on palpation and sectioning reveal four poorly defined tan-yellow
nodules, from 2.5 to 4.6 cm in greatest dimension each. On
sectioning. these have ﬂeshy tan-gray cut surfaces with a large
amount of intervening yellow adipose tissue. The smallest portion is
bisected and submitted labeled A. The next largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled B-C. The second largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled D-F. The largest portion is
sectioned and submitted labeled G-J.

 

Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis ‘
Uterus, tubes. and ovaries, radical hysterectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Hlstologlc type: Endometrioid carcinoma.
Grade: 3 (high grade).
Location: Endometrlal cavity and superﬁcial myometrium.
Malignancy extends up to 5 mrrr‘into an 18 mm thick myometrlum.
Extension of tumor: No involvement of endocervical canal or lower
uterine segment is
identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical margin status:
Cervix: Negative.
Left parametriat: Negative.
Right parametrial: Negative.
Lymph node status (specified sites):
See parts 2 through 5.
Number of lymph nodes examined (total): 18.
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0.
Other:
Vagina:
Not resected.
Cervix:
Squamous metapiasia. negative for malignancy.
Endocerle:
No pathologlc diagnosis, negative for malignancy.
Endometrium:
Background hyperplesia is present.
Myometrium:
Adenomyosls is present.
Leiomyomata.
Uterine serosa:
Endometriosis, focal. negative for malignancy.
Ovaries:
Endometrlosis. focal, left ovary, negative for malignancy.
Fallopian tubes:
Changes consistent with remote bilateral tubal ligation,
negative for malignancy.
pTN stage: pTib. N0
Lymph nodes. right aortic, excision:
Negative for malignancy. eight nodes.
Lymph nodes. left common iliac, excision:
Negative for malignancy, four nodes.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision:
Negative for malignancy. two nodes.
Lymph nodes, left pelvic. excision:
Negative for malignancy, four nodes. PAS 9

CPT:

Comments

No prior material is identiﬁed in our ﬁles for review and

comparison. The malignancy would be classiﬁed as grade 2 based on
the growth pattern. There is. however, marked nuclear pleomorphism
and a high mitotic rate raising the classiﬁcation to grade 3.

 

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have

 

been addlthnally reviewed by 0‘ .who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the—r
<Slgn Out Dr. Signature>

 

 

