UUID: 592656“:- FE49- 4552- EBAS- BAOCODORFDeZ96ac
TCGA- 3E- -AAA-Z 01A- PR

III III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIeIIIIIIIIIec'
‘IlllllIIlI IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII
IIIII||||I|I|||||IIII|IIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Name: Path No.: —
MRN: Date Obtained:

 

 

 

0.08. (Age: ) Date Received:
Sex: M Physician:
Location: ’
I SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
SPECIMEN:

A:Liver, biopsy
B1Pancreas, duodenum and stomach, pancreatoduodenectomy and distal gastrectomy
C:Lymph node, gastro duodenal, biopsy

D:SmaII intestine, resection me MNOQ
E:Gallbladder, cholecystectomy g) (I)? 5 O
SOIL , W W

DIAGNOSIS(ES): 3w W M ’ LI
A. Liver, biopsy:

Liver with features of bile duct obstruction; no malignancy identified.
B. Pancreas, duodenum and stomach, pancreatoduodenectomy and distal gastrectomy:

Invasive adenocarcinoma of pancreas, moderately differentiated with invasion of duodenum and
peripancreatic fat.

Multifocal PanlN, focally PanlN 3.
No carcinoma identified' In 10 peripancreatic lymph nodes.
C. Lymph node, gastro duodenal, biopsy:

Reactive lymph node with lipogranulomas, no malignancy identiﬁed.
D. Small intestine, resection:

Gastrointestinal stromal tumor.
E. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:
Gallbladder.

Date dictated:

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Mass of head of pancrease. A1 ——>Iiver biopsy 2—->pancreas and bile duct.
3——>gastroduodenal lymph node 4-~>duodenum 5—->gallbladder.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received in five parts.

Part A is received fresh from the operating room frozen section diagnosis in a container labeled with the patient's name
and “Liver Biopsy". It consists of one piece of soft, red—brown tissue measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The surgical margin

is inked black. No lesion is noted. The tissue is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in one cassette labeled AFS.
Please note: Three levels and a liver panel are ordered.

Part B is received fresh from the operating room for frozen section diagnosis in a container labeled with the patient's
name and "Pancreas & bile duct“. It consists of an en bloc resection of stomach, duodenum and the head of the

 

 

—___ - .—

paltcreas measuring 16.0 x 11.0 x 3.9 cm overall. The portion of distal stomach measures 7.0 cm in length with a
stapled margin measuring 13.5 cm in circumference. The duodenal segment measures 12.5 cm in length with a distal
margin measuring 6.0 cm in circumference. The portion of pancreas measures 6.2 x 6.0 x 4.1 cm. A mass is palpable
in the pancreas. The pancreatic surgical margin, which occupies an area of 3.9 x 1.4 cm is marked with two long black
sutures by the surgeon. This margin is submitted an face as BFS 1 and BFS 2 (BFS1 contains the pancreatic duct).
The pancreatic duct is noted at the margin with a diameter of 0.3 cm, The common bile duct is dilated measuring 1.1
cm in diameter. The common bile duct is submitted. en face in BFS 3. The common bile duct is probed into the ampulla
and appears narrow and unobstructed. The new ( false) pancreatic margin is inked blue. The false common bile duct
margin is inked green. The proximal and distal (stomach and duodenum) margins are inked black. The anterior
surface of the pancreas is inked yellow and the posterior surface is inked black. The pancreas are serially sectioned
from proximal to distal revealing a firm, white, lobulated poorly circumscribed mass measuring 3.2 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm. The
mass is located 4.2 cm from the false pancreatic margin, 0.2 cm from the anterior pancreatic surface and 0.1 cm from
the posterior pancreatic surface. The mass grossly is adjacent to the duodenal wall. A cyst measuring 1.7 x 1.7 x 0.5
cm is also identiﬁed in the pancreas located 2.2 cm from the false pancreatic margin, 2.0 from the anterior surface,
and 2.0 from the posterior surface. The cyst is also located 3.0 cm proximal to the mass and 0.2 cm from the common
bile duct. The cyst is surrounded by mucinous, green material over an area measuring 3.0 x 1.7 cm which extends to
1.0 cm of the mass. A tan nodule measuring 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm is identified in the portion of stomach and is located 1.1
cm from the proximal margin. The remaining gastric and duodenal mucosae are unremarkable. Eleven lymph nodes
measuring from 0.2 cm to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension are identified in the peripancreatic and duodenal fat.
Representative sections are submitted in 25 cassettes labeled BFS1—BF83, 81-822.

LEGEND:

BFS1—BF82 = Frozen section-pancreatic margin, en face

BFS3 = Frozen section—common bile duct margin, en face

81-82 = New (false) pancreatic margin—pancreatic duct in B1

BS = False common bile duct margin

84-85 = Ampulla

86—87 = Full thickness section of mass with closest superficial surface and surrounding posterior surfaces
B8 = Mass with closest duodenum

B9 = Deep surface closest to mass

B10-B11 = Additional full thickness sections of mass

812-813 = full thickness section of cyst with surrounding anterior and posterior surfaces
B14 = Additional section of cyst with adjacent common bile duct

B15 = Green mucinous material closest to mass

B16 = Random section of duodenum

B17 = Distal duodenal margin

818-819 = Proximal stomach margin with nodule

820-822 = Lymph nodes (822 = one bisected node).

Part C is received unfixed in a container labeled with patient's name and "Gastro—duodenal lymph node". It consists of
red—yellow lymph node with focally attached fat measuring 0.7 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The lymph node is bisected. The
specimen is entirely submitted in two cassettes labeled C1 and 02.

Part D is received unfixed in a container labeled with the patient‘s name and "Duodenum". It consists of an unoriented
segment of small bowel measuring 11.5 cm in length. Both margins are stapled and each measures 6.5 cm in
circumference. The margins are inked black. The serosal surface is pink, shiny with tiny pieces of focally attached fat.
A ﬁrm, tan-red nodule measuring 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.7 is noted attached to the serosal surface. The nodule is located 5.0 cm
from the closest margin and 6.0 cm and the opposite margin. The specimen is opened longitudinally. The mucosal
surface is tan—brown with normal folds. No discrete lesions are noted involving the mucosal surface. The specimen is
photographed. Representative sections are submitted in five cassettes labeled D1 —D5.

Legend: D1—D3 = entire, D4 = random sections of remaining mucosa, D5 = margins of resection.

Part E is received unﬁxed in a container labeled with the patient‘s name and "Gallbladder". It consists of a gallbladder
measuring 12.3 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm, with a segment of cystic duct measuring 0.2 x 0.1 cm. A cystic duct lymph node is not
identified. The cystic duct margin is inked black. There are no stones with in the lumen, the cystic duct or in the
container. The mucosal surface is red, velvety and covered with blood clots. The wall measures up to 0.3 cm in
thickness. Representative sections are submitted in one cassette labeled E.

 

 

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
AFS: Liver with cautery artifact, mild fibrosis and ductular proliferation. No malignancy identified.

BFS1-BFSZ: Pancreatic margin, no carcinoma seen.

BFSS: Bile duct with cautery artifact, no carcinoma seen.
Performed by: Resident: ’
Interpreted by: Attending:

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
PART B.
I. TYPE OF SPECIMEN: Whipple resection

II. ATTACHED VESSELS: None

lll. TYPE OF NEOPLASM: Ductal adenocarcinoma

IV. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GZ: Moderately differentiated
V. TUMOR SITE: Pancreatic head

VI. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 3.2 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.5 x 1.7 cm

VII. OTHER ORGANS RESECTED: Gallbladder
VIII. VENOUS/LYMPHATIC INVASION: Present
IX. PERINEURAL INVASION: Present

X. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (highest grade PanlN 3)

XI. MARGINS: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: < 1 mm; Margin posterior
Carcinoma in situ absent at ductal margins

Xll. PATHOLOGIC STAGING (pTNM): Reflects staging only of the current specimen. Ultimate staging
responsibility rests with the primary physician.

pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior
mesenteric artery

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
pMX: Cannot be assessed

ADDITIONAL COMMENTS: The liver biopsy (Part A) shows preserved Iobular parenchyma. The portal tracts are
expanded by a mild inflammatory infiltrate including neutrophils, mild ductular reaction and edema, with mild periportal
fibrosis confirmed on trichrome and reticulin stains. These features are those of bile duct obstruction. No malignancy is
identified. Iron, PAS, DPAS and Victoria blue stains show no additional pathologic features.

The pancreatic gastroduodenectomy specimen (Part B) shows a moderately differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma
arising in the pancreas and extending into the duodenum. There is also extension of tumor into the peripancreatic
adipose tissue. The tumor comes to within 1 mm of the posterior (black inked) surgical margin (Section 89). There is
perineural invasion as well as tumor invasion within lymphatics, conﬁrmed with D2—40 immunohistochemical stain.
There is also multifocal PanlN. In places, there are papillary structures with signiﬁcant focal atypia, corresponding to

PanIN3 (section B10); these areas are not present at the resection margin. This supports a pancreatic ductal origin for
this tumor.

 

The green cystic lesion noted grossly corresponds to a reactive/inflammatory, partially cystic process adjacent to the
common bile duct. Many spindled macrophages are present in this area, positive for CD68.. No carcinoma is identified
in this area with cytokeratin stain. No metastatic carcinoma is seen in ten lymph nodes.

The gastroduodenal lymph node (Part C) shows a large reactive lymph node with Iipogranulomas. No carcinoma is
identified.

The section ofjejunum (Part D) shows unremarkable small bowel with a pedunculated lesion on the serosal surface.
This lesion is composed of bland spindle cells arranged in intersecting bundles and fascicles with prominent vascularity.
The cells stain positively for CD117 (c-kit), and negatively for SMA and desmin. This is consistent with a
gastrointestinal stromal tumor. The gallbladder is partially autolyzed, but otherwise unremarkable.

This report has been reviewed electronically and signed on

Interpreted by: Attending:

The diagnosis was rendered by the attending pathologist.

 

  
 

 

Note: lmmunochemistry testing performed at as developed and its performance characteristics determined by the
These tests were interpreted in conjunction with external positive and internal negative controls, unless ot
FDA. This test is used for clinical purposes only. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research.

7

