UUID: D738C315- 26D6- 4568- ABFE- 01E6FE6A4F55
TCGA- FD- ABNA- 31A— PR

Sample 1

J

\

Gender: Male
DOB:

Race: -
Report Date: ‘

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report [Mix 5%! '.

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Pelvic lymph nodes, right, dissection:
- Twelve lymph nodes, no evidence of tumor (0/12).
E. Pelvic lymph nodes, left; dissection:
— Eight lymph nodes, no evidence of tumor (0/8).
C. Prostate and bladder; radical cystectomy:
~ Invasive urothelial carcinoma; see pathologic parameters below.
- Prostatic adenocarcinoma; see pathologic parameters below.
- Sixty-ﬁve lymph nodes, no evidence of tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma.
Grade of tumor: High-grade.
Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria, outer half.

Ureteral Margins: Negative.

Distal urethral margin: Negative.

Lymph nodes: No carcinoma in 85 regional lymph nodes (0/85).
pTNM: pT2b, NO, MX.

WNQMPP‘PT‘

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

Gleason Score: 3+4 = 7/10.

Perineural Invasion: Absent.

Tumor Location: Peripheral zone right.

Tumor Volume Estimate: <5%.

High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

Fibromuscular Capsule: Tumor conﬁned to the prostate.
Peripheral Margin: Positive for tumor (C16).

Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.

11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor.
12. pTNM: pT2a, N0, MX.

©waewewwr

XXX

(marl!
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary 'iumal Site Discrepancy
HIPM Discrepancy
Prior MaliInancv History

mmmnl

nmmwmmmmim“
HMNWHHHMMWHMHH Mlllmm

I
Ml
imwmmmmmmmmhmmmmmmmmm

 

 

 
 
 
 

Tumor distribution: Solitary, 6.3 x 5.1 x 5.0 cm (depth); posterior wall.

Aha/wink); art/1.9
C461: b/JM, ngfwlv (167.4

Dual/Synchronm is Primary M

W / DISQ'JMI Fir

 

Meviewed: , 1

W r/a/m—

[] MD.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident or Fellow.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD.

Clinical History:

The patient is a -year-old male with a history of bladder tumor. Bladder
washing showed urothelial carcinoma. The patient underwent radical cystectomy
and neobladder.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node
C: Prostate & bladder

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in three containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. Container A is further designated 31. right pelvic lymph node4. Received
fresh and placed in formalin are fragments of yellow-brown lobulated adipose
tissue measuring 8.5 x 6 x 1.2 cm aggregate. Multiple ﬁrm rubbery lymph node
candidates are dissected from the specimen ranging from 0.2-5.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

A1 -A3: multiple lymph node candidates

A4-A6: one matted lymph node candidate

B. Container B is further designated 32. left pelvic lymph node4. Received

fresh and placed in formalin are multiple fragments of yellow-brown adipose
tissue measuring 6.5 x 5.5 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. Multiple yellow—brown
ﬁrm—rubbery lymph node candidates are dissected from the specimen ranging from
0.2—4.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:

Bl—B3: multiple lymph node candidates

B4,BS: one matted lymph node candidate, bisected

C. Container C is further designated 33. bladder and prostate4. Received fresh
and placed in formalin is a specimen of cystectomy weighing 395 gm and the
overall measurement is 14.5 x 10.5 x 6.0 cm. The bladder measures 9.0 x 8.5 x
5.5 cm and the prostate measures 4.0 x 3.3 x 3.0 cm. The bladder is opened from
the anterior wall with a Y-shaped incision. A gray-white, ﬁrm, ulcerated mass
is identiﬁed in the posterior wall of the bladder measuring 6.3 x 5.1 cm and
raised 2.8 cm from the bladder mucosa. Multiple small papillae are identified

in the periphery of the mass. The outer surface of the bladder and the prostate

is inked black on the left side and blue on the right side. Probing through the
ureters reveals that both ureteral oriﬁces are involved by the tumor. The
specimen is serially sectioned. Both ureters are surrounded by solid tumor.

The tumor displays a thickness of 5.0 cm. The tumor grossly invades through the
bladder wall but not through the surrounding adipose tissue. The center of the
tumor is white and soft and grossly necrotic. The prostate and the seminal
vesicles are not grossly invaded by tumor. No lymph nodes are identified in the
pen—bladder adipose tissue. Received in the same container is a 4.8 cm round
tubular tissue with a diameter of 0.4 cm. Representative sections are submitted

as follows:

C1: urethral margin

C2: ureter margin

C3,C4: sections through the right ureter

C5,C6: sections through the left ureter

C7,C8: representative sections of tumor showing deepest invasion
C9—C1 12 representative sections of the tumor C 12: normal bladder and
sections of the detached tubular structure

C13-C27: the entire prostate

C28: Seminal vesicles

C29, C30: representative sections of tumor

XXX
[1 MD. PhD

