. - - - 46-25F365661561
““1”“$é2’éféi.‘:§§£ZAﬁR Rﬁﬂmlfea

IlllllllIIIIllIllllillllllllllIllllllHllllllllllll||||||
llllllIIIIIIIHIII|ll||illlllllllllllllllllllll|||||||||||||
mlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|||||||||||||||l|

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number:

Diagnosis:
A: Anterior base of tongue, biopsy
~ Skeletal muscle and minor salivary gland tissue, no tumor seen

B: Pharynx and base of tongue, right, partial pharyngectomy

Tumor histologic type/subtype: squamous cell carcinoma, poorly
differentiated

Primary site: Per clinical note, left glossotonsillar sulcus
extending into lingual tonsil ,QA-9,3

Size: 1.5 cm cww&um¢s$t“‘"““"““l”05 ya7afs
52/2, . mop/)MLx’ Nos (>10, 9

Extent of invasion: _

Angiolymphatic invasion: not identified

Perineural Invasion: not identified 14?”?

Bone invasion: no bone present in specimen

Carcinoma in situ: not identified

Surgical Margins: surgical margins of this specimen involved
with tumor (red inked inferior margin deep, black ink deep
margin (these margins superseded by the additional separately
submitted margins)

Lymph nodes: none present in specimen

Other significant findings: none

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pTl pNx

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information

available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Q

Tonsil, margin, biopsy
No tumor seen

U

. Midline pharyngeal margin, biopsy
No tumor seen

E: Pharyngeal deep margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

F: Anterior tongue, biopsy
— No tumor seen

G: Posterior oral tongue, biopsy
- No tumor seen

H: Deep inferior pharynx, biopsy
— No tumor seen

I: Vallecula mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen

J: Inferior deep margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

K: Medial base of tongue, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Clinical History:

—year—old male. Per , the patient has a T1N2M0 squamous cell
carcinoma of the right base of tongue, involving the left
glossotonsillar sulcus extending into the lingual tonsil.

Gross Description:
Received are eleven appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "anterior base of tongue."
It holds a fragment of red/brown grossly recognizable muscle
approximately 2.0 x 1.6 x 0.9 cm. One surface is relatively
smooth while the remaining surfaces are rough and

inked blue. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a
red/brown homogeneous cut surface and is submitted in blocks A1—
A3,

Container B is additionally labeled "right pharyngectomy and
base of tongue, stitch marks lateral" and holds a roughly
rectangular shaped piece of tan soft tissue oriented as stated
above. The tissue is 4.7 cm from lateral to medial, 4.2 cm from
superior to inferior, and up to 1.3 cm from superficial to deep.
One surface is covered with tan glistening nodular mucosa and
notable for a 1.5 x 0.8 cm tan ulcerated lesion with raised

edges. The lesion comes to within 0.5 cm of the red inked
inferior mucosal margin, 0.6 cm of the green inked medial
mucosal margin, 1.5 cm from the yellow inked superior margin,
and 2.0 cm from the blue inked lateral margin. The specimen is
sectioned from medial towards lateral to reveal that the lesion
on the surface extends 0.6 cm into the underlying soft tissue,
to within 0.2 cm of the black inked deep margin. No additional
abnormalities are noted. The majority of the lateral half of the
specimen consists of red/browu unremarkable tissue.

Block Summary:
Bl—B4 — Medial margin, perpendicular

B5-B7 — Sequential sections moving from medial towards lateral,
bisected into superior and inferior halves
B8—Bl4 — Sequential sections continuing from medial towards

lateral to include superior, inferior and deep margins,
perpendicular
B15 - Lateral margin perpendicular,

Container C is additionally labeled "tonsil margin." It holds a
1.9 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm fragment of tan/pink glistening mucosa. One
surface is roughened and inked blue. The specimen is sectioned
perpendicular to the blue inked surface and submitted in blocks
C1—C2,

Container D is additionally labeled "midline pharyngeal margin."
It holds a strip of tan/pink to red mucosa, 3.5 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm.
One surface is roughened and cauterized and inked blue. The
specimen is bisected perpendicular to the blue inked surface and
submitted in blocks Dl—D2,

Container E is additionally labeled "pharyngeal deep margin." It
holds a completely cauterized tan/brown tissue fragment, 1.4 x
0.4 x 0.2 cm. The cut surface is inked blue. The specimen is
serially sectioned and submitted in block El,

Container F is additionally labeled "anterior tongue." It holds
an 8 x 4 x 4 mm fragment of tan/red soft tissue. One surface is
cauterized and inked blue. The specimen is sectioned
perpendicular to the blue inked surface and submitted in

block Fl,

Container G is additionally labeled "posterior oral tongue." It
holds a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm aggregate of two pieces of red/brown

soft tissue submitted in block 61,

Container H is additionally labeled "deep inferior pharynx." It

holds multiple fragments of dark red cauterized tissue, 1.2 x
0.6 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. (Block H1, )

Container I is additionally labeled "vallecula mucosa." It holds
a 2.1 x 1.6 x 0.4 cm piece of tan/pink mucosa. One aspect is
cauterized and inked blue. The specimen is sectioned
perpendicular to the blue inked surface and submitted in

blocks 11 and 12,

Container J is additionally labeled "inferior deep margin." It
holds a tan cauterized tissue fragment, 1.3 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The
entire outer surface is inked blue. The specimen is serially
sectioned and submitted in block J1,

Container K is additionally labeled "medial base of tongue." It
holds a 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm fragment of dark red soft tissue. One
aspect is cauterized and inked blue. The specimen is trisected
perpendicular to the blue inked surface and submitted in block
K1,

 

