  

umor

    

iiiPIv"

 

  

Eu II
Reviewer initials

     
 
  
  

Slit!

U60.” 0. FIUVGUUIC.

8: Neck Date of Receipt;
And Neck Date of Repoﬂ:
" Account #2 .......
Biliing Type: ‘

Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Dla nosis & Histo : uum:cumu-3553-419D-ssc7-srssmcsaru

Papillary thyroid carcinoma. PT C

i
Specimens Submitted: ll: :llllllllllllllllllllll

1: Biopsy of trachea (fs) I]
2: Left paratracheal tissue (fs)

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllllllllllllllllll
illl'illﬂmlilllul“IIHIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllll

3: Total thyroidectomy

TCGA-DJ-ASVB-BlA-PR Redailfed

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Trachea; biopsy( fs):
- Benign respiratory mucosa.

2. Paratracheal Left ; blopsy(fs):

- Metastatic papillary carcinoma to lymph node, the node is 0.5cm and the metastatic focus is 0.25cm in size
-No extranodai extension seen *1

Note : the carcinoma was not present on the original frozen section slide

3. Total thyroldectomy

Part# 3

Tumor Type:

Papillary carcinoma, tall cell variant 3 50 4?, ﬁg! 04! 1/pr ﬂs //a./

Mitotic Activity:

Not identiﬁed lCD/O/3

H
Tumor Necrosis: carcinoma , Pat/P" ”a!” 1 +4 H CO

Not identiﬁed

zaaqi3

Tumor Location:

Tumor Size:

Leftiobe Si'k; ‘lefOldﬂtos .
c731q ”IE

Greatest diameter is 5.2 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:

Partially surrounded

Blood Vessel lnvasion:

Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:

lnvades:peri-thyroid ﬁbroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins:

Free of tumor

 

Page 1 of 3

m“.
...

\)

 

' I ,x—v,, v

Tumor Muiticentricity:
Separate foci of papillary carcinoma, follicular and microcarcinoma variants in right lobe. The follicular variant is

encapsulated non-invasive (3.7 cm)

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits nodular hyperplasla
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identiﬁed

 

IATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

—‘

*“ Report Eiectronlcaiiy'Slgned Out ***

 

Gross Description:

I J.

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "biopsy of trachea" and consists of two tiny fragments of
tissue each measuring less than 0.1 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section. The specimen

may not survive processing.

Summary of sections:
FSC — frozen section control

A -_M

a“ ).

2) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled ”left paratracheal tissue" and consists of a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.3
cm piece of soft tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

h”..—

a

3). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "total thyroidectomy, suture marks right lobe of thyroid" and consists of a 52 g
thyroid with a suture marking the right pole. The right lobe measures 6.7 x 3.4 x 1.7 cm , the left lobe measures 5.7 x 5.2 x 2.5 cm
and the isthmus measures 3 x 2.6 x 1 cm. The external surface is covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule with an anterioriy attached, 5.5
x 3.5 x 2 cm portion of muscular tissue on the isthmus and left lobe. The specimen is previously inked anterior blue and posterior
black. Sectioning reveals three ovoid, tan-white to pink-tan. rubbery, focally tan-yellow, gelatinous, unencapsuiated nodules in the
mid to lower poles of the right lobe, the two smaller measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm and the largest measuring 3.7 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm.
The largest nodule abuts both the anterior and posteriorcapsular aspects. in the‘ieft lobe is a 5.2 x 2.4 x 2.3 cm tan-brown,
friable, ﬁnely focally encapsulated nodule which abuts the anterior and posterior capsular aspects.- The remaining thyroid
parenchyma is red tan and meaty. Representative sections are submitted.

_..-.-,'.— .. . V

Summary of sections:
RLN - right lobe nodules
RL - right lobe

LLN - left lobe nodule
LL - left lobe

is - isthmus

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Biopsy of trachea (fs)

Block Sect. Site PCs ,

 

Page 2 of 3

1 FSC ‘ 1 ' I
Part 2: Left paratracheal tissue (fs)

Block Sect. Site ‘ P08
1 fsc 1

Part 3: Total thyroldectomy

Block Sect. Site P03
2 is 2

1 LL 2

1 5 LLN 1 5
3 RL 3

8 RLN 8

6'.
“V.

Intraogerative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

1. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Biopsy of trachea (is): Predominantly calcified tissue with rare epithelial cells. Defer. ii“ ‘ ,
Permanent Diagnosis: same

2. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Left paratracheal tissue (fs): Benign lymph node. 51)
Permanent Diagnosis: see final

&

 

Page 3 0f 3 END OF REPORT

