cams—2159

  

Material examined:

Left lower lobe, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Space-occupying lesion left lower lobe $6, (poorly differentiated large-cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma),
status post asbestos exposure.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.} Left lower lobe: inflated, fixed left lower lobe of lung measuring 20 x 15 cm at the base and up to 17 cm in length,
central bronchus resection plane located 0.3 cm proximal to the bifurcation of 86. A 7 cm long branched staple suture
line runs in a ventrocaudal direction from the hilus. In the medioventral region over $6 a cusp-shaped part of the upper
lobe measuring 4 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm is attached, closed by a staple suture line. in the laterodorsal region over $6 and
adjacent sections of 510, part of the parietal pleura, measuring 9.5 x 5.5 cm, is mostly adhesive over an extensive area
and loosely attached in parts at the margin. At the hilus are 3 mobile grayish—black nodes between 0.2 and 0.7 cm in size.
Ostiurn of 85 completely obstructed by endobronchiai parts of a central, moderately solid, pale brownish, focally soft
tumor, max. 6 cm in size, located in $6, with unclear demarcation and extending right up to the ventral visceral pleura
over $6 and to within 0.2 cm of the hilar resection surface. Apparent central involvement of some grayish-black
parabronchial nodes up to 1.5 cm in size by the tumor. Macroscopically questionable infiltration of the attached part of
the upper lobe, minimal distance from the resection plane of the pulmonary wedge after removal of the metal staple
line 0.3 cm. Parenchyma peripheral to the tumor in $6 and adjacent sections of 510 right up to the dorsal pleura and to
the pleural adhesion area over $6, with unclear demarcation, shows diffuse induration and a brownish-yellow color. Rest
of parenchyma inconspicuous. Medialiy in the attached fatty tissue close to the basal margin are 4 grayish-black nodes
between 0.2 and 1.1 cm in size.

2.} Peribronchial tissue left: 0.9 cm flat reddish tissue.
3.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.4 cm grayish-black node or node part with some surrounding tissue.

4.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) left: 2.2 cm grayish-black node with some surrounding tissue, section surfaces
partly indurated and pale grayish-white suggestive of tumor.

5.) Paraesophageai LN (station 8) left: two 2.5 cm specimens of fatty tissue, containing 1 cm node with section surfaces
suggestive of tumor.

6.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): 1.2 cm node part with some surrounding tissue.
7.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): two lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts with
some surrounding tissue, 1.5 and 0.8 cm in size.

 

Examined:

1.) Rapid section remains and resection margins of vessels and hilar nodes, tumor with remaining parenchyma,
endobronchial tumor part in B6, tumor with ventral visceral pleura over S6, 3 sections of hilar resection surface
(color—marked), 2 sections with attached upper lobe part (resection plane after removal of staple suture line
color—marked), brownish—yellow parenchyma and pleural adhesion zone, 810 dorsal, node in basal fatty tissue, 2
further sections with attached upper lobe part (resection plane after removal of staple suture line color—marked),
2.) Rapid section remains,

3.), 4.), 6.) + 7.) All material (in 4.) + 6.) nodes halved or mulii-segrnented, in 7.) nodes isolated),

5.) Nodes (halved),

17 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS, iron staining.

Microscopy

Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation bronchus resection margin tumor-free.

Re 2.) immediate intraoperative evaluation ): fatty tissue supplied by vessels and nerves shows
scarring, but no evidence of tumor. After parafﬁn embedding:

Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

    

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Central to peripheral, histologically poorly differentiate, large-cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of
the lower lobe of the left lung located in S6.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pN2 pMX R0, stage 111A.

C 34.3, M 8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Advanced, active, small foci of colliquating, chronic organizing and focal retention pneumonia accompanied by
ﬁbrous remodeling of the parenchyma peripheral to the tumor associated with a pleural adhesion zone (sample
1.)). Hilar lymph nodes of the main preparation and lymph nodes of samples 6.) and 7.) with uncharacteristic
reactive lesions, anthracotic pigment deposits and an old, nodular, cicatrioially encapsulated area of necrosis
(sample 6.)).

Remark/addendum:

The tumor has obstructed B6 at its bifurcation, continuously inﬁltrated parabronchial lymph nodes and extended
focally to within at least 0.2 mm of the bilar resection surface. It has also grown across the pleural ﬁssure
initially and into the co-resected tissue from the upper lobe and has formed further lymph node metastases in
samples 3.) - 5.). The resection lines of the bronchus and vessels, the resection plane of the wedge resection
specimen from the upper lobe and the lymph nodes located at the hilus of the main preparation (sample 1)), the
repeat resection specimen of sample 2.) and the lymph nodes of samples 6.) and 7.) are tumor-free.

No asbestos bodies are found in the prepared section planes. However, very much further-reaching investigations, in
particular dust analytical studies, are needed to settle the question of asbestos dust exposure.

 

