4x Pagciof4

WID:“BBSBSE$260-47EA-5FA9-C5CEEEDGCBF6
TCGA-EM-ASAN-alA-PR Redacted

tit
||||| |||||||l||||||IIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllll
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

* Amended *
Paihnt Name: Accession I: 7
”RN: Service: Cohcbd: _
DOB: Viol I: Received:
Gender: Location: Reported:
HON: Faculty:
0mm no:
Copy To:

 

W ‘
1.N0*Rmmmumsmmwpeda.mmmm
2.Lymphnode:LeitMuiodigsstricnode
3.Neoir:Lsnnedtoontsnisstitchmsrluapsx
4.Parathyroid:RigﬂupperperathyroidIQs

5.Lymphnode:L-ttplruradieainode
6.Thyrdd:TotdWsﬂwhmmsuppapob,Mbbe.wimlenpamuscMnode

 

U

laggoels
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma with extranedal extension: Lymph nodes, 12 of 37 (Right neck) dissection specimen
No pathological diagnods: Lymph node, 1 (ieﬂjugulodigastnc) excision
Metastatic paprihry thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes. 7 of 31 (left neck) dissection specimen
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right upper) biopsy ‘
Metastatic pmilhry thyroid wcinoma with extranodal extension: Lymph node. 1 of 2 (left contractual) excision
Widely invasive papillary carcinoma, 1.2 cm, right. mixed classical and bilicuiar variant with psammomatous Intrathy'roidd
dissemination involving isthmus and leit; and focal involvement at right resection margin; mild nonspeciﬁc chronic
lhyroiditis; mild foiicular nodular disease: Thyroid
Mensteiic papillary thyroid carcinoma with extranedal extension: Lymph nodes, 7 of 9. isthmus and central neck
No pathological diagnosis: parathyroid, central compartment
No padrelogicai diagnosis: Thymus
- total ihyroidectomy and central compartment dissection specimen. See Comment.

P’P‘PPN.‘

mm

The papillary carcinoma is widely invasive with psamrnomatoue dissemination in the right and left lobes. titling lymphatic channels

throughout the thyroid and in adjacent peri-thyroidai soft tissue. The largest single focus of tumor measures 1.2 cm and is in the

right lobe. Although there are foot that are suspicious of angiolnvasion, no definitive vascular invasion is identiﬁed. Because vie

tumor involves the painted margin of resection, the presence of extrathyroidal extension mnnoi be accurate assessed. Clinical
nded

correlation is recornme .
sir-12mm
Procedure: Total ihyroidectcmy with bilateral neck dissection
Other-.Toiai thyroidechmy with bilateral neck dissection and central compartment dissection.
ALA-av} at we tvaD/S
I

‘ ‘ - mitt)" ,
LQCF- “WWW. WNWW .. w: rave/3 ....
Qﬁm: ‘ CWWI [0’1“ ”“71 mw' 14f Clti

50" -' . w; c 75 . r;
1- MW“. M/JI/‘l

 

Page 2 of 4

Received: Fresh
Specimen Integrity: intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
4.0 cm
2.7 cm
1.3 cm
Left lobe:
4.0 cm
2.7 cm
1.1 cm
Isthmus +I— pyramidal lobe:
2.0 cm
0.8 cm
0.5 cm
Central compartment:
4.5 cm
2.5 cm
1.5 cm
Right neck dissection: . "
14.8 cm .
4.3 cm ' “
1.5 cm
Leit neck dissection:
11.0 cm
3.0 cm
1.5 cm
Specimen Weight: 22.3 9
Tumor Focelity: Unifocel
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR-------—-----
Tumor Latsrality: Right lobe
.Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 1.2cm
Additiond dimension: 1.0 cm
Additional dimension: 1.0cm + L olqn/ ._
Histoi icT : Papilla carcinoma. classical usual - “ r
09 m Paplmzaminoms someway-am ) (m T93: VOW/m“ vane“
.Classlcai (papillary) architecture oeuul Nib
Follicular architecture
Classical cytornorphology
Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margin(s) involved by carcinoma
Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated
Tumor Capsular- lnvaeion: Present, extent widely invasive
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Indeterminate

Per-inaurd Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension Cannot be assessed

TNM Descriptors: Not appiirable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT1b: Tumor more than 1 em but not more than 2 cm in greatest dimension. limited to the
thyroid -

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1b: Metastases to unilateral. bilateral or contralateral canister superior niedastlnai
lymph nodes

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 80
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 27
Lymph Node. Extranodal Extension Present
Distal! Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additicnd Pathologic Findings: Adenornatoid nodule(s) or Modular follicular disease
Thyroidltis, focal (nonspeciﬁc)
Parathyroid glandls), within normal limits
Other. Thymus with no pathological diagnosis

'Patl’totogic Shaina is based on AJCCIUICC TNM. 7th Edition

Page 3 of 4

 

Electronically veriﬁed by'

W

1. The specimen labeled With the patients name and as “right neck contents, single stitch marks superior, double stitch mitts
antericr' consists oian oriented right neck dissection with overall dimensions 0114.8 cm Slx1.5 cm MI. “.3 cm AP. The
specimen is painted with silver nitrate. The intsmal jugular vein. stamocleidomastold and submandibular gland are not identiﬁed.
Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 3.3 cm are identiﬁed; 4 of these are partially calciﬁed. ﬂssue is stored frozen.
Representative sections are submitted from superior to interior.

1A multiple lymph nodes

13 one lymph node bisection

1c-D multiple lymph nodes

1E one lymph node bisected

1F mpreeenlaﬂvs section from largest partly calciﬁed lymph node submitted for decalcitcatlon

16 1 lymph node bisected

1H 1 lymph node serially sectioned

1| multiple lymph nodes

1J query one lymph node bisected

1K lymph node bisected

1L—M one lymph node bisected

1N multiple lymph nodes

10 one lymph node bisected

1P-R one partly calciﬁed lymph node trleacted and submitted for decelclllcaﬂon

15 multiple lymph nodes '

1T-U one lymph node serially sectioned

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as 'leit juguiodigestric node” consists of a piece of tan—brown issue that
measures 1.1 x 0.4 x02 cm received In 10% buffered formalin.
2A submitted in

specimen is painted wih slver nitrate. The lnbrnal jugular vein. stemocleidomastoid and submandibular gland are not identiﬁed.
Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to 3.0 cm are identified in multiple levels Representative sections are submitted from apex
'0 base.

. 3A-D rnuttlple lymph nodes
3E one lymph node bisected
1F multiple lymph nodes
is 1 lymph node bisected
lH multiple lymph nodes '
ll-K one lymph node serially motioned (K subde for decelciﬁcaﬁon)

I. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as “right upper‘parathyroid 05" consists of a piece of tissue that measures
1.1 cm in maximum dimension and weighs 0.004 9. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
IA frozen tissue resubmitted

i. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as ‘lett paralracheai nods' consists of one piece of tan-brown tissue that
neasures 1.5 x 1.7 x 0.4 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. The specimen is painted with silver nitrate. 'l'lssue is stored ,
rozen.

SA submitted in

i. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as ”total thyroid. stitch marks upper pole. left lobe with tall parairacnaal
rode" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a suture and weighs 2.3 9. Attached to the thyroid is a piece of soft tissue

. . ' Pagc4of4

that measures 2.5 cm Six 4.5 cm ML x 1.5 cm AP. it contains multiple lymph nodes. the largest measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.0 cm;
one is partially calciﬁed. The right thyroid lobe measures 4.0 cm SI x 2.7 cm ML x 1.3 cm AP, the let! lobe measures 4.0 cm Si 1:
2.7 cm ML x1.1 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.0 cm Six 0.8 cm ML x 0.5 cm AP. The exiemal sufaces have ﬁbrous
adhesions and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid glands are identified grossly. The right upper lobe contains a well
delineated nodule that measures 1.0 cm Six 1.2 cm ML x1.0 cm AP. The remeinderof the thyroid tissue is grossly
unremarkable. Tissue Is stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

6A4 right lobe superior to interior

6.! isthmus

6K—R left lobe superior to mfericr

as multiple lymph nodes

6T one lymph node bisected

6U—V one lymph node serieiiy Wed

6W one partly calciﬁed lymph node section for deceiciﬁcation

Wm
Right upper parathyroid: Parathyroid tissue present
called at ‘ ' "

 

