 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - J.) LUNG, LEFT, UPPER LOBE, PERIBRONCHIAL (N11L X 4), HILAR (N10L X 2),
PULMONARY LIGAMENT (N9L), SUBCARINAL (N7), AND SUBAORTIC (N5L),
LOBECTOMY WITH REGIONAL LYM PH NODE DISSECTION:

- INVASIVE POORLY DIFFERENTIATED SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA.
- 4.8 cm in maximum dimension.
- Visceral pleural invasion: PRESENT.

- MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.

- EIGHTEEN LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR METASTASIS (0/18).
- A single lymph node shows a hyalinized nodule consistent with

old granuloma.
- SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT2a (4.8 cm in maximum dimension).
Regional lymph nodes: pNO (0118).
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Pathologic stage: IB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Margin status: R0.

Lung Tumor Staging Information

Data derived from current specimen. Sta in in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook,- and CAP protocol, h

 

 

' rose - ure:
Specimen type:
Specimen laterality:
Specimen integrity:

Tumor Features:

Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Tumor focality:

Histologic type:

Histologic grade:
Lymphovascular invasion:

Perineural invasion:
Visceral pleural invasion:

Tumor extension into extra-pulmonary structures:

Treatment effect:

Lymph Nodes:

Margin Evaluation:

Distance to closest margin:
Bronchial margin:
Vascular margin:
Parenchymal margin:
Parietal pleural margin:
Chest wall margin:

Other margins:

Pathologic tumor staging descriptors:

Primary tumor (p'l):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Margin status (R):
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic ﬁndings:

Comment:

 

l I ‘ ' i ' 1',
Lung, upper lobe.
Left.

Intact.

Lett lung, upper lobe.

Greatest dimension: 4.8 cm.
Additional dimensions: 4 x 3.8 cm.

Unifocal.

Squamous cell carcinoma.
Poorly differentiated (G3).
Not identiﬁed.

Not identiﬁed.

Present.

Not identiﬁed.

Not applicable.

Eighteen lymph nodes, negative for metastasis.

Negative (R0).

3.3 cm from the bronchial margin.
Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Uninvolved by carcinoma.
Uninvolved by carcinoma.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.
Not applicable.

pTZa (4.8 cm in greatest dimension).

pNO (0/18 lymph nodes).
Not applicable.

R0.

IB.

Emphysematous changes.
Apical bleb.

Elastic stain, performed with adequate control,
conﬁrms the presence of visceral pleura

invasion.

 

I. ma,
rlﬂ‘ﬂ
' ::'.a.- try;

rég-‘W
lr-E‘:

'I’l' =
dill-II .

:' I: .
£3};ch r: enacted-SM

= ":1:—

 

..:
' r-iicﬁi'l’ﬁ-

ii; if” ., ..

 

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation.

Cassette summary: A1) bronchial margins, frozen section analysis, A2) pulmonary vascular margins
trimmed and submitted, A3—A4) tumor mass, anterior pleura, four pieces, A5) tumor mass, nearest posterior
pleura, two pieces, A6) tumor mass, lobar tract relationship, A7) bulk of tumor represented, A8) superior
apex of lung, bleb candidate, A9) grossly uninvolved lung represented, two pieces, inferior and superior,
A10) ﬁve small interlobar lymph node candidates, A11) three interlobar lymph node candidates.-

 

B. Part B is designated Received in formalin is a single light to darkened gray lymph node
candidate, 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The lymph node is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in B1. I

 

C. Part C is designated a-Received in formalin is a single light to darkened gray lymph node
candidate, 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. The lymph node is submitted in C1. -

D. Part D is designated 3-. Received in formalin is a light to darkened gray anthracotic lymph
node candidate, 2.3 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is trisected and entirely submitted for microscopic

evaluation in D1.

 

E. Part E is designated as -Received in formalin are multiple light to darkened gray lymph node
fragments, measuring in aggregate 1.6 x 1 cm. The lymph node tissue is entirely submitted for

microscopic evaluation in a ﬁlter bag in E1

  

  
 

F. Part F is designated as

m Received in formalin are two tattered light to darkened gray lymph
node fragments, 5 mm eac . e

Issue is entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation in F1 -

 

G. Part G is designated as- Received in formalin is a single partially tattered light to darkened
gray lymph node candidate, 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in G1 . I

 

 

H. Part H is designated Received in formalin is a partially tattered light to darkened gray lymph
node candidate, 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm and fragments upon manipulation, therefore is submitted in a ﬁlter

bag in H1 .-

   

I. Part I is designated 35— Received in formalin are multiple light to darkened gray lymph node
fragments/candidates ranging rom 0.5-0.7 cm each. All three fragments are submitted intact in l1.

 
 

J. Part J is designated- Received in formalin are a tattered fragments of light yellow fatty soft
tissue and partially encased light to darkened gray lymph node tissue fragments/candidates which
measure in aggregate 3.5 x 3.5 x 0.9 cm. The excess fat is trimmed, and the three large intact lymph

node candidates, 0.5-0.7 cm, are submitted in J1 and the remaining lymph node pieces minus the
trimmed fat are submitted in J2. -

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. Emphysematous changes are also present, as well as an apical bleb. Seven peribronchial

lymph nodes are identiﬁed. negative for metastasis. A single lymph node contains a hyalinized nodule,

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

consistent with old granuloma.

B. One anthracotic pigment laden lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.
C. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

D. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

E. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

F. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

G. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

H. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

I. One lymph node is present, and is negative for metastasis.

J. Four lymph nodes are present, negative for metastasis.

 

