 

 

MEDICAL RECORD 1 Surgical Pathology Report

UUID : 7511A809-AB7C-‘A77-906F-D2AF59“1E84

 

 

 

TceA-Dv-Mwa-em-pk Redacted
lll lllllllllllllllllllllIlIllllIIllIllllllllllllllIlllllllll llllll
llll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllIlllllllllllllllll
Surgical Pathology Report
PATIENT: l . ’ MRN:
ACCOUNT#: . -' RECEIVED DATE:
DOB: PROCEDURE DATE:
AGE: sﬂ- M SIGN-OUT DATE:
ATTENDING: LOCATION:
REQUESTING: , ,, ,
CONTACT NO: ROOM:
COPIES To:
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Adrenal, left (excision): Adrenal, no tumor seen.

2. Kidney ”left upper pole tumor" (excision): '

- Renal cell carcinoma. clear cell type, Furhman nuclear grade III; tumor permeates the capsule but does not
extend to the inked margin.

- Adrenal gland.

3. Kidney, ”inferior tumor” (excision): Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Furhman nuclear grade II with
extensive ﬁbrosis. ‘

4. "Gerota's cover over largest turnor" (excision): Fibroadlpose tissue, no tumor seen.
NOTE:
CLINICAL INFORMATION: Allocate Order to Protocol: Brief Clinical History year

old male with bilateral renal masses for left partial nephrectomy
Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes

PROCEDURE: Pro-Operative Diagnosis: renal mass left POst-Operative Diagnosis: / C A, 0 — 3
renal mass left Operative Findings: left renal masses
cit/14mm, cﬂtw uﬁ FWD/3

 

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND, LEFT 3%,: («:2qu Nos 160%.?

2. TUMOR. Left upper pole

3. TUMOR, inferior 1“

4. TUMOR, Gerotas over the largest ”/340—
Eatient Identiﬁcation Surgical Pathnlnnu Report

I

I Page 1 of 3

 

L MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Name: Accession No.:
MRN:

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 4 formalimﬁlled containers labeled with the patient's name, medical
record number, and further speciﬁed as follows:

1. “Left adrenal”. The specimen consists of a tan/red soft tissue fragment measuring 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm.‘ The
specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted ln white cassette labeled - #1 for permanent
processing.

- 2. “Left upper pole tumor'. The specimen consists of an 82.9 gram piece of red/tan tissue measuring 14.4 x 8.9 x
4.8 cm. It has a tan/brown surface grossly consistent with renal parenchyma at the lower portion of the specimen.
There is an lll~deﬁned nodular density, measuring 6.5 cm in greatest dimension by external examination. There is
attached fat and fascia. No renal vessels or ureter is identiﬁed grossly. There is a thin rim of golden yellow tissue
which appears grossly to be adrenal on one aspect of the specimen. in the lower portion of the specimen. there

‘ is additional nodular density measuring 1.5 cm on external examination. The specimen is bisected to reveal a
multlnodular yellow/tan cut surface with areas of cysts and hemorrhage. maximum 6.5 cm in dimension. Multiple
fragments measuring 4.0 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm in aooreoate are procured from the center of the lesion for . The.
procurement was done by The specimen is sent to Surgical Pathology and matches the
above description. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a nodule measuring 1.5 x 1.2 cm inferior to the
larger nodule and a smaller partly hemorrhagic nodule measuring 1.1 x 1.3 cm that corresponds to the ﬁrm area
in the lower portion of the specimen. Representative sections are taken and submitted in white cassettes labeled

l#2 for permanent processing as follows: 2A-2E representative sections of the larger tumor nodule, 2F
section rrom the hemorrhagic nodule at the lower portion of the specimen. 26 section of the second nodule with
renal margin, 2H normal renal parenchyma, 2l capsule and adrenal.

3. “inferior tumor". The specimen consists of a nodular white/yellow tissue with attached piece of fat measuring
3.4 x 2.1 x 2.1 cm and fat measuring 4.3 x 3.2 x 1.1 cm. A very thin rim or brown tissue. resembling renal
parenchyma is seen at one side of the nodule. The nodule is inked in black and bisected to reveal a multlcystic
ﬂuid-ﬁlled cavity. 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm specimen is procured for . The procurement was done by

The remaining specimen is sent to Surgical Pathology. In Surgical Pathology. the specimen received
matches the above description. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections submitted in
white cassettes labeled #3 for permanent processing as follows: 3A-3C representative sections of

tumor with attached renal parenchyma, 30 tumor. with attachedfat.

4. "Gerota's cover the largest tumor”. The specimen consists of a tan/red soft tissue fragment grossly resembling
fat measuring 15.0 x 4.5 x 0.6 cm in the largest dimension The specimen is serially sectioned and representative
sections are is submitted in white cassette labeled #4 for permanent processing as follows: 4A-4E
representative sections from the fat.

Gross dictated by

 

Patient Identification .. Surgical Pathology Report

 

I
| Page 2 of 3

 

MEDICAL RECORD

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Name: .
MRN:

Accession No.:

 

 

Ne consultants

 
    

)iagnosis
r

  
     
  

Sase i I
teviewe.

{a—

 

Patient ldentiﬁcation __

I

Surgical Patholoav Report

| Page 3 of 3

 

