P.1d

Conﬁdential

 

WID: 8731(350- 7625- “43- 9858- AF17BDAR32IéF2Aac
TCGA-TB- A92M-91A-PR

151,0 3 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII||||III|IIIIII||II|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIed
«We - m we mIIIII:III'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImIInIIm
51: do: MNbs 032,0;
_ 97) 3/249»
Site lD: Subject Number:

Please compiete ALI. Information with biack ball point non. Ensure infonnetion is legible,
Retain angel and email/fax copy to

 

 

 

 

 

 

53ml," Cdldction Date: .1. -._--_ as ..... _.=_ _-_ ._ Procured by:
oo-MMM-vvvv _ "‘

Time of Tumor Sample Excision ‘

(24 hour clock): 'H a- g * M“ — M Time Zone:

 

'TUMORJRQIEN‘ &’ FRESH SAMPLES . ' '
FROZEN SAMPIES BATCH SHIPPED (div In): FKFSI‘I TUMOR SAMFEE, IF (ELECTED, SHIPPED ON DAY OI: COLLECTION

 

Collect resected tumor in accordance with standard procedures. Weigh the sample and section off~100mg.
Froze

Place this sample in the crvovlal labeled Frozen Tumor sample and record the weight. Place the cryovlai in a cane and
then into the vapor phase dewar. Record the time placed in dewar.

 

Weightof‘l'lssue: .95).ng ‘ Time placedln dewar: . ,_

(tissue weight must be 2 100mg) (24 hour clock) H n --:-- M— - M

{Leg-,1] Tumor lawman CI N/A - . I

Locate the "Fresh Tumor” label in the kit and affix to the 15ml tube (Sent separately). Place any remaining

tumor tissue Into the 15ml conical tube containing

Weight of Tisue: __’_9_?____Jn§ Time pIaced In

 

 

 
 
  

 
     

 

 

. _...__ - _-_.__ Lot Number of
(no min. welghtspecified) (24 hour clock) it n a M M _‘
I ‘ :143-1mtw‘5! F. n -'
WIIOL§ éioou Simmmequired) BATCHgDSHI‘PIﬁiiFIlGZEmdM' I -I' _‘3 (mg (‘33.
Sample Collection Date: - - Procured by: _ __

u o-M MgM-Y v v v

 

Time of Blood Sample Collection 11 z '
(24 hour clock): T T g “a; T me one. ‘ A

 

 

 

1-10mi EDTA tube. Fill tube completely and mix by gentle inversion at least 8—10 times. Freeze sample on dry Ice or
place in vapor phase dewar.

Time placed in dry ice/(Iowan
(24 hour clock) H n : M M

 

BASIC PATHOLOGICAI. INFORMATION

Clinical Diagnosis: W Source of Specimen: Lag! I! 2 I

(Ex. Lung Cancer) C ANCERIEX' Right Lung}

 

 

 

 

Confidential .
Valid frorr I Page 1 of 2

 

 

Conﬁdential

Tissue/Blood Requisition Form

—-.-

i'
l
I
r
r
.

Site ID: . Subject Number:

 

 

 

 

 

From the diagnostic FFPE block, cut 3 slides with one section ~ 4-5pm on each slide. Label the frosted tip of the slide
in pencil with the sample ID (located on the label at the top of this form). Record the ID number of the diagnostic
histology cassette and the number of slides. H&E stain the slides and store in a slide mailer.

Diagnostic Histology Cassette ID Number of Slides Cut

 

 

 

5 men Collection Vessel __ DAME! S i Statu

Frozen Tumor' None Cryovlal Same Day — Dry Ice
Frozen Blood“ 1-10ml EDTA None Same Day - Dry lce
Fresh Tumor None 15ml- Same Day - Refrigerated

atch

1‘

 

-u

Diagnostic Slides“ Histology Cassette 5-Sllde Mailer—B

r

 

 

 

 

 

Confidential
Valid from Page 2 of 2

    

Final Diagnosis .

Total laryngectomy and partial pharyngecicmy:

Moderately-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.
Histologic grade: 62.

Tumor site. Giottlc, subgiottic, supragloitlc
Tumor size: 4.1 cm.

Tumor iaterality: Predominantly right-sided.

Tumor extent: Tumor invades through the outer cortex of the thyroid
cartilage.

Margins: See below.
AJCC Pathologic stage: M-

lnferior anterior tracheal margin. excision with frozen section:
' No invasivoor in situ carcinoma is identiﬁed.

Right lateral pharyngeal wail margin. excision with frozen section:
No invasive or in situ carcinoma is identiﬁed.

Left lateral pharyngeal wall margin. excision with frozen section:
No invasive or in situ carcinoma is identified.

Mucosa base of tongue margin, excision with frozen section:
No invasive or in situ carcinoma is identiﬁed.

Right level 28 lymph nodes:
Three (3) of three (3) lymph nodes are involved by metastatic
carcinoma.
Extracapsular extension is present.
All nodes are less than 3 cm in size.

Left level 2A lymph nodes:
One (1) lymph node is present and is involved by metastatic
carcinoma.
Extracapsular extension is present.
The node is 1.7 cm in size.

Salivary gland:
Benign salivary gland tissue.

 

Clinical information
Laryngeal cancer.

Frozen Section Diagnosis

Tune in: Time out:

FSB. Right lateral pharyngeal margin: Mild dysplasia with HPV effect. Negative for invasive carcinoma.
FSC. Left lateral pharyngeal wail margin: Negative for malignancy.

FSD. inferior anterior tracheal margin: New“ for mel

FSE. Mucoeai base oi tongue: Negative for malignancy.

Operating Room Consultation

Time in: Time out:

ﬂesueior ' ‘ Received is a iaryngectomy specimen. Margins closest to mass inked. Submucoooi tumor
samples for _ _—

Gross Description.

"A. . Total iaryngectomy and partial pheryngcctomy." Received in a 7.7 x 5.2 x 4.6 cm larynx. The tracheal margin will
be inked orange. Attached to the right side of the larynx is a 3.0 x 2.1 cm portion of pharwz. The pharyngeal soft docue
margin has been previously inked black. The tracheal and pharyngeal margins will be shaved and submitted in into. There is
a 4.1 x 3.4 cm mass which grossly appears to be in the well of the right side of the larynx. The anterior aspect of the larynx
adiamnt to this mass to include a 4.1 x 3.5 x 1 .s am right lobe oi thyroid will ire inked yellow. The mass grossiy appears to
abut the anterior aspect of the right side of the larynx. The mass does not grossly appear to extend into the attached portion of
right lobe of thyroid. The mass grossly appears to be conﬁned to the soon-lumen oi the larynx and does not grossly appear to
involw the right or left vocal cords. The cut surface of the portion of attached lobe of thyroid is red-tan and no masses or
lesions are greedy identiﬁed in the portion of attached thyroid lobe. ”A1.'leit half of tracheal margin: “A2." right half of tracheal
margin; "A3." left pharyngeal soft tissue margin: 'M." posterior pharyngeal soft tissue margin: ”A5." right pharyngcd soft
tissue margin; ‘AG-AZ' full-thickness sections of the mass; has." radical mucosa aspect: "A7:l anterior wall of trachea
aspect to include portion of lobe oi thyroid): “A8.“ mass to Include anterior aspect of trachea; "A9.“ random sections of mass
with subglotiic portion of attached traciieel mucosa; "A10." right true and false vocal cords: "A11." anterior oornrnissurc: “A12:
left true and false vocal cords; “A13! ieit pyrifcrm sinus: 'A14.” epigiottis; 'A15.‘ right pyriform sinus

“El. FSB." Received is irozen section control tissue Tea bag. 'FSB.‘ all.

“C. F56.” Received is frozen section control tissue. Tea bag. "FSC.' all.

'0. FSD.“ Received is frozen section control tissue. 'FSD." all.

"E. F85.“ Received is frozen sewon control tissue. “FSE.' all.

"F. Right level 28.“ Received are 3 tan tissue fragments ranging from 1.0 to 1.4 cm In greatest dimension. On sectioning.
gepmﬁgxésﬂe lymph nodes ranging from 0.8 to 1.1 cm. Random sections at all of the lymph node: will be submitted.

'6. Left level 2A." Received is a 1.7 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm lymph node. The cut surface is gray-tan. The specimen will be bisected
and submihd in toto. "G." all.

"H. Salivary ghnd." Received is a 4.1 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm salivary gland. The specimen wil be inked black. The co of the
gland is ten and lobuiated. No masses or lesions are grossly identiﬁed on the gland. 'Hl-Ha." representative.

 

'66! éétéﬂff

 

 

 

