can—444668

 

SPECIMEN
A. Right upper lobe FS procurement
B. Right middle lobe nodule
C. Node level ll
D. Node 4R
E. 2R Fat pads
F. Node level 7

CLINICAL NOTES
PREHOP DIAGNOSIS: Lung nodule.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
Lung, right upper lobe, resection: Non small cell carcinoma.

Bronchial margin negative for carcinoma. —

GROSS DESCRIPTION
' A. The specimen is received unfixed labeled ”right upper
lobe" and consists of a red lung lobe weighing 375 gm and
measuring 15.5 x 14 x 4.5 cm. The pleural surface has a puckered
appearance over a white solid mass measuring 3.7 x 2.4 x
approximately 2.4 cm. A portion of tumor is taken for research
purposes. A portion of tumor is taken for frozen section
diagnosis.
A portion of the bronchial margin is also taken for frozen section
diagnosis. Additional sections after fixation. RS—9

B. Received in formalin labeled "right middle lung lobe

nodule" and consists of a tan piece of tissue with stapled
margins. The stapled edge measures 3 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. There is a
tan~white nodule measuring 1 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. bisected. AS-l.

C. Received in formalin labeled "node level 11” and

consists of a piece of black soft tiesue measuring 0.5 cm.
in greatest dimension. AS—l.

D. Received in formalin labeled "node 4R“ and consists of

three pieces of tan and red, rubbery soft tissue measuring

GROSS DESCRIPTION
1.5 X 2 x 0.5 cm. in aggregate. AS-Z.
E. Received in formalin labeled "right fat pad" and
consists of three pieces of tan and red rubbery tissue
measuring 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. AS—l. F. Received in formalin
labeled "node leVel 7“ and consists of four pieces of pink
and black soft tissue measuring 1.5 cm. in greatest aggregate
dimension. AS—l.

 

 

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A.
Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma.
Tumor grade: 2~3 out of 3.
Mitotic Index: 2 mitoses/10 HPFs {l HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
Tumor size: 3.7 x 2.4 x 2.4 cm.
Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy.
Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy.
Pleura: Carcinoma invades into the visceral pleura on
elastic stain
Vascular invasion: Absent.
Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy
in a single peribronchial lymph node.
pTNM Stage: T2 N0.
Non—tumorous lung: There is adjacent bronchiolitis
obliterans, endogenous lipoid pneumonia and acute
bronchopneumonia. The tumor has a central scar with
elastosis and necrosis. There is focal DIP—like change
that
might represent respiratory bronchiolitis away from the
tumor.

B. Sections of the nodule show elastosis and chronic
inflammation.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
C. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
D. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of three

lymph nodes.
E. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of four

lymph
nodes.
F. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of four

lymph
nodes.

4x3, 3X2, 14, 15, 18

 

 

DIAGNOSIS

A.

B.

nodes.

Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
Moderately to poorly—differentiated adenocarcinoma.
Lung, right middle lobe nodule, excisional biopsy:
Elastosis and chronic inflammation. Negative for malignancy.
Lymph nodes, level 11, biopsy:
A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
Lymph node, 4R, biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in any of three lymph
nodes.
Lymph nodes, 2R fat pad, biopsy: _
There is no evidence of malignancy in any of four lymph

Lymph nodes, level 7, biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in any of four lymph
nodes.

 

 

