ICE {*3

awed/Adm H053 Solo/3

SID/Oh:

3J1 OW WMZ Wiles 0509

Final Sur ical Patholo Re ort
g W p do 4M2 5

Procedure:

Diagnosis
A, B. Lymph nodes, left axillary sentinel #1 & #2, excisions —
Negative for malignancy.

C. Breast, left, segmental mastectomy —
Invasive mammary carcinoma, no special type, high combined histologic
grade, high proliferative rate.

D. Breast, left, posterior to segmental mastectomy, excision —
Negative for malignancy.

Note: The above diagnoses are rendered per expert consultation from

of Please see the
consultation report from Dr. In a comment,
states: "This invasive carcinoma is circumscribed and has an expansile
rather then infiltrative growth pattern, which may explain the lack of
nodal involvement. The margins are adequate. " In an addendum comment,

:ates: "The closest margin from the left segmental

mastectomy (specimen C) is posterior (1.5 mm), however the separately
submitted new posterior margin (specimen D) is negative. The other
margins are negative by least 4 mm.

Microscopic Description:
A,B,D. Microscopic examination performed.

c. The following template summarizes the findings in part C:

Invasive Carcinoma: Present

Histologic type: Invasive mammary carcinoma, no special type

Histologic grade: High combined histologic grade, high
proliferative rate

Greatest dimension (pT): 4.2 cm (pT2)

Specimen margins: The margins are adequate (see comment in
diagnosis)

Vessel invasion: Not identified

Calcification: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified

Comment: Please note that in addition to examining H&E stained
sections, representative blocks in part C were immunostained with
antibodies to p63 to aid in assessment.

Prognostic markers: Previously performed (see

[A few of the anti bodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA. ]

374
UUID: FASCFSAI- -F44A— 4393- 9200- 32250FAEFR
TCGA- A7- ASZV- B1A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIe
I

 

     

Specimen

A. Left axillary sentinel node #1, hot, not blue, 1018
B. Left axillary sentinel node #2, hot, blue, 237

C. Left breast segmental mastectomy

D. Tissue posteriorkto segmental mastectomy

Clinical Information
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast CA

Gross Description

A. Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary sentinel node
#1, hot, not blue, 1018" is a 2.2 x 1.7 x 1 cm soft tan—pink lymph node
with some surrounding yellow adipose tissue. AS«4, following fixation.

B. Received fresh in a container labeled "left axillary sentinel node
#2, hot, blue, 237" is a 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.2 Cm portion of tissue
containing two soft tan—pink lymph nodes with surrounding yellow
adipose tissue, with the lymph nodes 1 and 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. RS-4, following fixation, with the lymph nodes entirely
submitted, with the larger lymph node in blocks BZ—B4.

C. Received fresh in a container labeled "left breast
segmental mastectomy" is a 7.3 x 5.7 x 4.3 cm portion of soft
tan—yellow breast tissue, with orienting sutures present. The margins
are inked as follows based upon the sutures: anterior - green:
posterior - black; lateral — orange; medial - red; inferior — blue;
superior - violet. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing a 4.2 x
4.2 x 3.5 cm red—brown to white—tan nodular mass, which grossly comes
near to the medial, posterior, and anterior margins. RS—lO, following
fixation, with tumor to closest medial margin in block C1, tumor to
closest lateral margin in block C2, tumor to closest anterior margin in
block C3, tumor to closest posterior margin in block C4, tumor to
closest superior margin in block C5, tumor to closest inferior margin
in block C6, and with additional sections of tumor in blocks C7-C10.

D. Received fresh in a container labeled "tissue posterior to segmental
mastectomy" is a 1.7 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm portion of soft red—brown skeletal
muscle, with a suture indicating the new posterior border. The new
margin is inked. The specimen is sectioned and is without focal
lesion. AS—3, following fixation.

|mlials

 

 

