Resident:
Pathologi‘

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON, RIGHT COLECTOMY {30.5 cm):
ADENOCARCINOMA, low grade, moderately differentiated
(4.0 cm in greatest dimension}.
Tumor is located in the cecum with extension into
the wall of the ileum, forms a fungating mass, and has a pushing border-
Tumor invades through the muscularis propria and into
the subserosal adipose tissue.
The proximal and distal resection margins are negative for tumor.
Invasive tumor is 9 cm from proximal resection margin, 21.5 cm from
distal resection margin-
Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.
Extramural venous invasion is not identified.
Perineural invasion is not identified.
Peritumoral lymphoid response [including Crohn?s—like infiltrate) is
moderate.
Residual adenoma is present.
Appendix with fibrous obliteration of lunen; negative for tumor.
Diverticulosis.

Regional lymph nodes { ositive:total}: 0:19.
AJCC Classification _: 'I'3 no nx.

CLlNICAL DATA:

History: Not provided.

Operation: Right colectomy.
Operative Findings: Not provided.
Clinical Diagnosis: Right colon CA.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A. Right colon — F5 rm open + return (tissue bank).

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received fresh in one part, labeled with the patient's name,
and unit number, and "#1. Right colon", consists of a single ileocolectomy
specimen including ileum {8.0 x 2.5 cm) with a proximal stapled resection
margin (3.0 cm, black), colon (22.5 x 4.8 cm, distal resection margin, inked
black, d.0 cm), and appendix (5.5 cm x 0.6 cm). The specimen is opened to
reveal a tan/pink ulcerating mass with raised edges (4.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 ch which
is present in the cecum and appears to abut, if not involve the ileocecal
valve, and is present 9.0 cm from the prOximal stapled resection margin and
21.5 cm from the distal stapled resection margin. Sectioning through the
lesion demonstrates invasion into and likely through the muscularis propria.
The tumor edge is located 0.4 cm from the appendix which is otherwise grossly
unremarkable. The uninvolved ileal mucosa is tan/white and unremarkable. The
colonic mucosa is tan/pink and contains multiple diverticula without evidence
of perforation. No other lesions are identified in the specimen.
Representative sections of tumor and normal colon are submitted for tissue
banking.

Micro Al: Proximal and distal resection mar ins 2 frags,-
Micro A2: Normal ileum and colon, 2 frags,i

— Paw”

 

Ill:

 

