Page 1 of 4

 

PATHOLOGY REPORT

PATIENT: PATH #:
Hospital N0-: m
Date of Birth: m
Soc. See. No: .
Location:

   

    
 

Pathologist:
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS:

 

1—4. PELVIC NODULE, PELVIC PERITONEUM, UMBILICAL HERNIA, BLADDER
PERITONEUM, BIOPSIES:
"Positive for high—grade papillary serous carcinoma

5—9. UTERUS, CERVIX, RIGHT AND LEFT OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES,

HYSTERECTOMY WITH BILATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

—Papillary serous carcinoma, high—grade

—Tumor involves both right and left ovaries, replacing most of
the ovarian parenchyma

—Tumor also involves the right and left fallopian tubes mucosa
with transmural invasion

—Benign endometrial polyp in a background of secretory
endometrium

~The myometrium is unremarkable

—The uterine serosa is unremarkable

—Cervix shows metastatic deposits of papillary serous carcinoma
in the lymphatic spaces and submucosal stroma

 

10. APPENDIX, RESECTION:
—Metastatic high—grade papillary serous carcinoma involving
periappendiceal soft tissue

11-17. SIGMOID IMPLANT, TUMOR NODULE, URETERAL SACRAL NODULE,
OMENTUM, LESSER SAC, COLON NODULE, BLADDER MODULE, BIOPSIES:
—Positive for high—grade papillary serous carcinoma

HISTORY: Ovarian carcinoma

MICROSCOPIC:
See Diagnosis.

GROSS:

l. PELVIC NODULE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin are two firm
pink-white portions of tissue measuring 2.8 and 3.0 cm in greatest
dimensions. The cut surfaces display homogeneous, friable,
tan-white tumor with hemorrhage. Representative section.

A: 1

 

 

Page 2 of4

2. PELVIC PERITONEUM

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a soft
yellow-tan 5.2 x 3.1 x 0.4 cm irregular portion of membranous
tissue. The specimen is studded with firm, white tumor nodules.
Representative section.

B: 1

3. UMBILICAL HERNIA

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a portion of
saccular fibroadipose and fibromembranous tissue, 4.9 x 3.2 x 0.9 cm
in greatest dimensions. On sectioning a cystic area containing
hemorrhage is identified. Representative section.

C: l

4. BLADDER PERITONEUM

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin are two firm
pink—white portions of tissue measuring 1.3 and 2.2 cm in greatest
dimensions. Representative sections.

D: 2

5. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a fallopian
tube measuring 3.6 cm in length, and 0.7 cm in average diameter.
The tube is diffusely indurated. The fimbriated end is indurated
with firm, white tumor. On sectioning the lumen measures 0.3 cm in
diameter. Attached to the fallopian tube is a 3.9 x 3.6 x 2.8 cm
solid and cystic ovary which on sectioning is completely replaced
by firm, white tumor. Representative sectionS.

E: fallopian tube—2

F-H: ovary—1 each

6. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in the fresh state in the
Operating Room for frozen section diagnosis and subsequently fixed
in formalin is a fallopian tube measuring 4.3 cm in length, and
1.2 cm. in average diameter. The tube is diffusely indurated and
distended by firm white tumor. The fimbriated end is identified
grossly. On sectioning the lumen measures 0.4 cm in diameter.
Attached to the segment of fallopian tube is a 4.3 x 3.4 x 3.2 cm
cystic and solid ovary which on sectioning is completely replaced
by firm, white tumor. Representative sections.

I: frozen—section control#l—2

J: fallopian tube—2

K—M: ovary-1 each

7. UTERUS

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in the fresh state in the
Operating Room for intra—operative gross consultation and
subsequently fixed in formalin is a uterus without attached adnexa
which weighs 270 grams. The uterine corpus is enlarged, measuring
6.3 cm superior to inferior, 8.4 cm cornu to cornu, and 7.1 cm
anterior to posterior. The serosa is tan red with focal
hemorrhage. The cervix has a length of 4.3 cm and a diameter of
4.1 cm. There is a 1.5 cm slit—like patent os. The ectocervical
mucoea is tan-pink and smooth without obvious lesions. The
transformation zone is distinct. The endocervical canal is 3.1 cm
in length and is tan and rugose. The endometrial cavity is 5.2 cm
in length, 3.7 cm in width, and is lined by a soft tan, smooth
endometrium with a thickness of 0.2 cm. The endometrium contains
two tan—brown soft polyps measuring 1.0 and 2.4 cm in greatest
dimensions. The myometrium is 2.3 cm in maximum thickness. The

 

Page 3 of 4

myometrium is grossly unremarkable. Representative sections.
anterior uterine corpus— l

anterior uterine corpus polyp—2

anterior cerviXHl

posterior uterine corpus—l

posterior uterine corpus polyp—1

posterior cervix-1

m N 0 w 0 Z

8. LEFT OVARY TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a firm white
2.3 x 1.8 x 1.4 cm irregular portion of tissue. Representative
section.

T: l

9. RIGHT OVARY TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form. and received in formalin is a firm white
2.8 x 1.7 x 1.6 cm irregular portion of tissue. Representative
section.

U: l

10. APPENDIX

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a vermiform
appendix, 5.7 cm long and 0.8 cm in maximum diameter, with attached
fat up to 0.9 cm in width and 1.1 cm in thickness. The external
surface is tan—pink and bosselated with firm white tumor nodules.
No exudate is seen. The wall varies in thickness up to 0.2 cm and
is firm and tan—white. There is no gross perforation. The lumen
measures up to 0.3 cm and contains a small amount of hemorrhagic
material. No fecalith is identified. Representative sections.

V: 3

11. SIGMOID IMPLANT

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin are five firm
white portions of tissue measuring from 0.6 to 0.9 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections.

W: 3

12. TUMOR NODULE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin are six soft
white portions of tissue measuring from 0.5 to 1.0 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections.

X: 3

13. URETERAL SACRAL NODULE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a firm
pink—white 2.8 x 1.5 x 1.4 cm irregular portion of tissue.
Representative section.

Y: 1

14. OMENTUM

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a 22.5 x 5.8
x 3.4 cm aggregate of indurated adipose tissue with diffuse, firm.
white tumor nodularity. Representative section.

Z: 1

15. LESSER SAC

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a firm
yellow—white 2.3 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm irregular portion of tissue.
Representative section.

 

Page 4 of 4

A2: 1

15. COLON NODULE

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin are six firm
pinkwwhite portions of tissue measuring from 0.6 to 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections.

82: 2

l7. BLADDER NODULE

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled as designated on the
specimen requisition form, and received in formalin is a firm
pink—white 1.3 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm irregular portion of tissue.
Entirely submitted.

CZ: l

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):
#6. MALIGNANT TUMOR, FAVOR PAPILLARY SEROUS CARCINOMA

 

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):

 

 

 

