LABORATORY MEDICINE PROGRAM

UUID:SSSSAOAS-FMD-4F79-80E5-280C37c96€68
TCGA- EM-A303-61A—PR Rﬁﬁmﬂted

ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Hillllllulﬂl'lllllullmindlllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

You Mo,

 

  

Die! nosls Dlscrrmrlcy

 

 

 

 

frimuy Tumor Site Discrepanry
hIPM Disa: anry

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

S'gﬁimg'nlg) Received .
1. Parathyroid: Query Rt inferior Parathyroid

2. Thyroid: Total thyroid gland-long stitch marks Lt. superior pole, short stitch marks Rt. superior pole

3. Lymph node: Rt. Paratracheal nodes . ~ 0 .. 5
4. Lymph node: Lt. paratrach'eal nodes and upper mediastinal cm NJ LEW. ”’“J ' Wet. you. 0/3,

grit ': W%' N”; C— 7 3. ‘] [A‘JJ/J7l}

‘—

Diag'nosie _ '
1:...NP pathological diagnosis: Lymph node (listed as “query right inferior parathyroid) excisional biopsy

2. Viiidely-invasive papillary carcinoma with unusual features, 3.1 cm, right lobe and isthmus; underiying severe chronic
lymphoc‘ytic thyroidltis with ﬁbrosis and atrophy: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 4, isthmic
~ Total thyroidectomy specimen. See Comment.

3. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 2 of 8 (right paratracheal) dissection specimen

4. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 3 (left paratracheal and upper mediastinal) dissection
specimen ,

Comment

The specimen reveals a widely-invasive classical variant papillary thyroid carcinoma that exhibits areas of Warthin-like
and hobnail cell change. There is also fooal Solid growth with cribriform and morularlsquamoid architecture, which
accounts for less than 20% of the lesion and is characterized by increased mitotic activity (5/10 HPF) and apoptotic
change. These areas are positive for TTF-1 and thyroglobulin. Although some of these features may represent
microscopic dedifferentiation within this lesion, these features are unusual and therefore the clinical signiﬁcance of these

ﬁndings is not well known.

Dr. . . , ‘ i has also reviewed this case and she agrees with the diagnosis and interpretation.
Synoptic Data
Procedure: OthenTotal thyroidectomy with right paratracheal and left paratracheal & upper

mediastinal dissection

5' Page 1 of3

 

Received:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen Size:

t
Specimen Weight
Tumor Focality:

--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR-------~u—-

Tumor Laterality:

Tumor Size:
Histologic Type:

3.
Histologic Grade:
Margins:

Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular-Invasion:

Lymph-Vastmlar invasion:

Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:

TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):

RegiOnal Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):
Additional Pathologic Findings:

Ancillary Studies:

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ~ 1

Fresh

Intact

Right lobe:

3.4 cm

1.6 cm

0.8 cm

Left lobe:

3.4 cm

1.7 cm

0.6 cm

Isthmus +I- pyramidal lobe:

8.5 cm

3.0 cm

1.6 cm

14.5 g

Unifocal

Right lobe

isthmus

Greatest dimension: 3.1cm .

Additional dimension: 2.? cm

Additional dimension: 1.4 cm

Papillarycarcinoma. classical.(usual)

Papillary carcinoma, other variant: with focal Warthin-like and hobnail cell change. and

cribrifon'n-morular architecture

Classical (papillary) architecture

Classical cytomorphology

Not applicable

Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma to

Partially encapsulated

Present, extent widely invasive
Not identiﬁed

Not identified

Not identiﬁed

Not applicable '

pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm, but not more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid
pN1a: Nodal metastases to Level Vl (pretracheal, paratracheal and .

prelaryngeal/Delphian) lymph nodes

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 16

Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 3

Lymph Node, Extranodai Extension Not identiﬁed

Not applicable
Thyroiditis, advanced

Other: marked thyroid atrophy

Type: lmmunohistoohemistry

Results: The tumor is positive to

calcitonin, CD31 and CD5

closest margin: 0.1 mm

tithyroglobulin, TTF-i. HBME-i, and is negative for

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UlCC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Page 2 of3

— Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ' ~

Gross Description

1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "query right inferior parathyroid", contains one tiny piece of pink
tissue that measures 0.2 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is submitted for intraoperative consultation in toto.
1A frozen tissue resubmitted

 

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "total thyroid gland. long‘stitch marks left superior pole, short
stitch marks right superior pole" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a long suture at the left superior pole and a
short suture at the right superior pole and weighs 14.5 g. The right lobe measures 3.4 cm Sl x 1.6 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP, the
left lobe measures 3.4 cm Si x 1.7 cm ML x 0.6 cm AP and the isthmus measures 8.5 cm Si x 3.0 cm ML x 1.6 cm AP.

ZA-E right lobe submitted in toto, superior to interior
ZF-M isthmus submitted in toto from right to left
2N—P left lobe, submitted in toto, superior to inferior

3. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "right paratracheal nodes", contains 6 tan fatty lymph nodes that
measure from 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.3 up to 1.9 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm.

3A~B a single lymph node bisected in each block

3C 2 lymph nodes bisected

so a single lymph node bisected

SE 2 individual lymph nodes

4. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "left paratracheai node and upper mediastinal", contains 4 tan
fatty lymph nodes that measure from 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm up to 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm. ’
4A lymph nodes submitted in toto

ulckSectinn' Dia' nosis .
1. Query parathyroid: Lymphoid tissue. No parathyroid identified. . reported at

Migroscop’ ic Dggcﬂgtion

exhibit apoptotic changes and increased mitotic activity (5110 HPF, especially on slide 2D). The tumor is positive for TTF-
1, thyroglobulin, HBME~1 (apical and membranous), vimenlin and monoclonal CEA (focal), and is negative ,for CDS,
caicitonin and CD31. p53 stains less than 3% of tumor cell nuclei.

 

 

' Page 3 of 3

