ED 0 ~35
heed! Wm #95
‘19 $7045

54h @W #95

 

 

4c 7
Surgical Pathology Consultation Report 9%“) 77“! C4713
* Amended *
Patient Name: Accession #1
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visitik Received:
Gender: Location: Reported:
Facility.

Ordering MD:
Copy To:
Speciments) Received
1. Ad I: L ﬂR cti
2. Ly:::No:e: Peasrea-agmc Supra Hilar node? ”um-'chlgzﬁlgiggﬁﬁ 53513:“ -ABeI=- -Ech=a:-IaR39335
3. Gallbladder
4. Lymph node: Supra pancreatic lymph node III II "II" | || | Hill Hill" | lllll II II lllllllllllllllllRlllllrlllcllm
g- Setmwtogermg vgnmppeuanaaysyndmne IHHI IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII HI III IIIIH IIIIII HIIIH HIIH HIII

. esse: 0 sin Iss
Mammy; ue IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

8. Pancreas: Whipple

 

Diagnosis
1. Pheochromocytoma: Adrenal (left) adrenalectomy specimen. See microSoopic description.

2. Extra-adrenal paraganglioma: Ganglia, 1 of 3 (para-aortic suprahilar) biopsies.

3. No pathological diagnosis: Gallbladder
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, 1
- cholecystectomy specimen.

4. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph node, 1 (supra-pancreatic) biopsy.

5.6.7. Inﬁltrating neuroendocrine carcinoma: Soft tissue (#5 site not speciﬁed. portal vein and retnoperitoneum) biopsies.
See comment

8. Well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinoma, 5 cm in largest diameter, head of pancreas; multiple benign
cysts, all resection margins negative, extending to within microscopic distance of me inked anterior margin:
Pancreas

No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 7
No pathological diagnosis: Stomach
No pathological diagnosis: Duodenum
- Whipple's resection specimen. See synoptic report

Comment

Specimens 5,6 & 7. The biopsies consist of soft tissue with inﬁltrating cells that exhibit signiﬁcant freezing artifact that
precludes an accurate interpretation of morphology. however immunohistochemistry conﬁrms positive for synaptOphysin,
cytokeratin 19 and focal reactivity for chromogranin; they are negative for tyrosine hydroxylase. The immunoproﬁle
supports a diagnosis of neuroendocrine carcinoma and is similar to that of the pancreatic tumor.

w Paga 1 of 5

 

I-Lf

~ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report -

 

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head

Tumor Focality: Unifocal

Tumor Conﬁguration: lnﬁltrative

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.0 cm

Additional dimensions: 3.2 cm
Other Organs Submitted: Gallbladder
Other: left adrenal gland
Functional Type: Pancreatic endocrine tumor, secretory status unknown
Extent of Invasion: Tumor limited to pancreas
No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 9
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant metastasis
Margins: Margin(s) involved by invasive carcinoma
Margln(s) involved by invasive carcinoma - Other. SPEClMENS 5 (NOT SPECIFIED),
6 (PORTAL VEIN) AND 7 (RETROPERITONEUM)
Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Absent

Perineural Invasion: Absent
Mitotic Activity: Absent
Immunohistochemistry: Synaptophysin: positive

Chromogranin: positive

Insulin: focally positive

Glucagon: negative

Somatostatin: negative

Pancreatic polypeptide: negative

Gastrin: negative

Serotonin: negative

OK 19: positive

Ki-67: <1%

Other (specify): VIP: negative
Additional Pathologic Findings: Other. Pan|N1 and serous adenomas

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical History
Tumour of the pancreas

Gross Descﬂwon

1. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "adrenal left resection" consists of an adrenal gland with adherent
fatty tissue; it weighs 100.2 g and measures 9.5 x 6.3 x 4.7 cm. it is painted with silver nitrate. After the fat is removed, the
adrenal with its mass weighs 78 g and measures 6 x 6.5 x 5.0 cm. On section the cut surface is solid brown tan with areas
of hemorrhagic discoloration.

1A—O representative sections submitted. .

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as "paraaortic suprahilar node" contains a piece of
fibrofatty tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm and contains 3 nodules that measure 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.30m to 1.5 x 1 x
0.60m. The nodes are submitted in toto.

2A 1 nodule bisected

ZB 2 nodules

m Page20f5

 

(mu-1,:

(p

9 Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ‘

3.The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as" gallbladder". ‘
Resection specimen: Gallbladder - r
MEASUREMENTS:
Length 9 cm. .
Maximum diameter 3.5 cm. .
DESCRIPTION OF GALLBLADDER:
Serosa: smooth
Adventitial surface: size: 7 x 2.5 cm appearance: Normal
Wall: Intact; 0.1 cm average thickness
Mucosa: velvety
Contents: Green bile; no stones.
Cystic duct:
- stenosis: No
— stone in lumen: No
- intraluminal tumor: No
Cystic duct lymph node: 1, measuring 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm
FOCAL LESIONS: No
TISSUE BANKING: No
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
3A cystic duct, body and fundus
38 node

 

4. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "supra pancreatic lymph node" consists of a lymph node that
measures 0.9 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm.
4A bisected and submitted in toto.

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "von Hippel Ianday lymph node" consists of a fragment of tissue
that measures. 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation. ,.
5A frozen section block resubmitted {
6. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as “portal vein tissue" consists of a fragment of tissue that measures
0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

6A frozen section block resubmitted

7. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "retroperitoneum“ consists of a fragment of tissue that measures
0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
7A frozen section block resubmitted .

8. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as “Whipple” consists of a Whipple resection including pancreas
head. distal stomach, duodenum
Fixation: ﬁxed
Dimensions:
- stomach: length along greater curvature: 4.5cm, circumference at proximal margin 17 cm; circumference at
pylorus: 4.5cm "
~ duodenum: length: 280m circumference proximal: 7.5 cm circumference distal: 7.8cm ’
- common bile duct length: 4.8cm. circumference at proximal end: 1.3 cm; circumference at mid-point: 1cm
circumference at distal end: 1 cm
— pancreas: 4.5 cm SI x 3 cm AP x 7.5 cm ML
- ampulla: length: 1cm, circumference: 0.66m
TUMOR:
Location: head of pancreas; 1.2 cm from distal pancreatic margin
Conﬁguration: solid
Dimensions: 3.2 cm Six 5 cm ML x 3 cm AP
Characteristics: yellow. white. fibrous; partly calciﬁed
Estimated extent of invasion: approaching anterior surface ;'
OTHER LESIONS/FINDINGS IN REMAINDER OF PANCREAS: multiple cysts containing clear ﬂuid in the remaining "
pancreas ranging in size from 0.2 to 1.3 cm
GROSS APPEARANCE OF STOMACH: Normal

” Page 3 of 5

W

n Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

GROSS APPEARANCE OF DUODENUM: normal
GROSS APPEARANCE OF AMPULLA: normal
- tumor: no
- periampullary tumor“. no
GROSS APPEARANCE OF COMMON BlLE DUCT:
-appearance of mucosa normal
-stenosis: no
~intraluminal tumor. no
-tumor invading wall: no
MARGINS: Painted:
- distal pancreatic margin: India ink
— posterior pancreatic margin: silver nitrate
- retroperitoneal pancreatic margin: green ink
Distance of tumor to posterior/retroperitoneal margin of pancreas: 0.1 cm
Distance of tumor to distal margin of pancreas: 1.2 cm
Distance of tumor to CBD margin: 2.5cm
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES:
Peri—CBD lymph nodes: number: 1 size range: 0.4 cm
Peri—pancreatic lymph nodes: number. 3;size range: 0.8 to 1.6cm
_ Peri-gastric lymph nodes: number. 2 size range: 0.3 to 0.8 cm
OTHER FINDINGS: The specimen overall has a pale gray appearance.
Tissue Banking: no
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
8A distal pancreatic margin en face
83 retroperitoneal margin perpendicularly out
BC posterior pancreatic margin
80 common bile duct margin en face
BE—G proximal en face gastric margin
8H~l distal en face duodenal margin

8J mid CBD

8K ampulla

8L—M tumor approaching anterior surface pancreas
8N—O tumor '

8P—Q cystic areas of pancreas

8R CBD node

SS 2 lym ph nodes

8T one peripancreatic node bisected
8U 2 peripancreatic nodes bisected

Quick Section Diagnosis

5A — Portal vein tissue - Fibrotic tissue with aggregates of atypical cells, suspicious for a malignant neoplasm. Await
permanent sections. Slide received:

6A — Retroperitoneum - Fibrotic tissue with aggregates of atypical cells, suspicious for a malignant neoplasm. Await
permanent sections. Slide received:

7A - Retroperitoneum - Fibrotic tissue with aggregates of atypical cells, suspicious for a malignant neoplasm. Await
permanent sections. Slide received:

Microscopic Description
* 1. Site: left adrenal gland

Tumour size: 6.5 x 6.2 x 4.7 cm

Histological pattern: Classical nested.

Cell type: polygonal (chief cells) and spindle (sustentacular cells).
Mitoses: 1 per 50 HPF

Necrosis: absent

Other extensive stromal hyalinization.

Lymphovascular invasion: absent

Perineural invasion: absent.

 

~ Page 4 of 5

AN“-

. 5

*n Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Extent/depth of invasion:

Underlying medullary hyperplasia: negative

Lymph nodes: - (
Number examined: none
Number involved: none

Metastasis: not known.

lmmunohistochemistry:
i) synaptophysin:
ii) chromogranin
iii) 55-100
iv) tyrosine hydroxylase

 

Fen—.9.» ‘

SVMWl/HWWW WWMW
swine W PW'W
Mr

 

 

5 939050“

