 

TCGA- HZ- A77P- -01A- PR

 

 

 

 

Patient: Referring Physiclan: _

UUID: 71CF594D- 2A24- -4398- AFBF- -1D97DF421433

III II I I III I II I III I I II II II II | |I||||||Il IIIIIlIII I III III llllll Icllm1|

 

DOB: Age: ' GenderzM IIIIIIII IIII IIIII IIIIIIII IIII IIIII IIIIII IIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII
Rem: Hosp#: Provider Group: IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII I IIII
Date or Service: Date Received: Case #
Date Reported:
A copy o£ this report will be fund to: _
—
110-6. '3 03
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT W H.
3140!:
‘ Diagnosis: 5J5— Wu M¢25P
A. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: WWW":
- MILD CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS.

- ONE REACTIVE LYMPH NODE, NO TUMOR SEEN (UI1).

B. LYMPH NODE, BILE DUCT. EXCISION:
- ONE LYMPH NODE, NO TUMOR SEEN (ON).

C. STOMACH, DUODENUM, PANCREAS, WHIPPLE PROCEDURE:
- ADENOCARCINOMA, WELL DIFFERENTIATED.
- TUMOR SIZE 3.1 CM.
- TUMOR INVADES TO PERIPANCREATIC SOFT TISSUE AND INTO
MUSCULARIS PROPRIA OF DUODENUM.
- SURGICAL MARGINS NEGATIVE.
- ONE OF TWENTY LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC
CARCINOMA (1/20).
- LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION PRESENT.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (PANCREAS):
Type and grade: Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated.
Primary tumor: pT3.

Regionai lymph node: pN1.

Distant metastasis: NIA.

Pathologlc stage: IIB.
Lymphovascular invasion: Present.
Margin status: R0, negative.

Tumor Staging Information
Data derived from current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging

Page 1

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Handbook. 1th Ed. and CAP protocol. June 2012.

Specimen: Stomach. duodenum. pancreas.

Procedure: Whipple excision.

Tumor site: Head of pancreas.

Tumor size: 3.1 cm.

Histologlc type: Adenocerclnoma.

Histologic grade: Gt . well diiferentiated.

Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor extends to peripancreatlc solt tissue and
muscularis propria of duodenum.

MARGINS: R0, negative. closest margin deep at 0.5 cm. common
bile duct and pancreatic margin >2 cm.

Treatment effect: NIA.

Lymphovascular Invasion: Present.

Perinaural invasion: Not identiﬁed.

LYMPH NODES: One of twenty lymph nodes positive for carcinoma
(1120).

PATHOLOGlc TUMOR STAGING:

Primary tumor: p‘i‘a.

Regions lymph node: pNi.

Distant metastasis: NIA.

Pathologic stage: llB.

 

Source of Specimen:

A. Gallbladder

B. Lymph node:Common bile duct lymph node
C. Whipple

Clinical History/Operative Dx:
Malignant neoplasm of pancreas.

lntraogerative Diagnosis:

1ancmatic margin - no tumor seen; bile duct - no bile duct tissue identiﬁed In frozen
section.
Wletimm was/Were performed and rendered at _

Gross Description:

A. Part A designated gallbladder. Received in formalin is a previously disrupted. deﬂated gallbladder. 7.8

x 3.2 x 1.2 cm. The across is glistening. iatty pink and tan. There are two paracystic duct lymph node
candidates are 0.3 and 0.4 cm each. The cystic duct margin demonstrates a narrow 1 mm lumen. difﬁcult
to probe for paiency. however. upon sectioning does not appear obstructed. The lumen contains a

residual amount of viscous dark green bile without calculi; no calculi are present within the container. The
mucosa is velvety. dark green with few raised yellow flecks without grossly unusual areas of change
suggestive of neoplasla. Representative sections are submitted for microscopic evaluation, including
represemation of the cystic duct margin (orange), lymph node. mid fundus and dome of fundus In A1.—

3. Part B designated common bile duct lymph node. Received in formalin is a rubbery pink and tan lymph
node candidate measuring 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The lymph node and surrounding fat is now bisected and
submitted together in at .-

Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)

Case #2 .. '
Printed:

C. Part C designated Whipple procedure. initially received in a fresh state for frozen section analysis is a
generous portion of tissue. consistent with a Whipple procedure specimen. it consists of a distal portion of
the animm of the stomach. 12.0 cm along the greater curvature and 7.8 cm on the lesser. and up to 7.0
cm in diameter at the proximal surgical margin of resection; the small bowel is 21.0 cm in length with an
average diameter of 2.5 cm and up to 3.1 cm at the proximity of the pancreatic head: the pancreas
includes the head and portion of the body 5.? cm in length. 5.0 cm Inferiorusuperlor. 4.2 cm
anterior-posterior. The common bile duct is obscurred by peripancreatlc fat. and extends out to 1.8 cm. is
markedly narrow. 0.35 cm diameter. The CEO probe patent to a depth of 2.5 cm.

\

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

The gastric and small bowel is now opened, and examination of the small bowel demonstrates prominent.
semi-congested pink and tan circular pitce. with the apparent ampuila of Valor oriented 6.4 cm distal to
the pytorus. and is obscured by a raised. dusky red lesion measuring 1.3 x 0.8 cm. The AV through the
pancreatic duct is probe patent. Several attempts to probe the AV with the common bile duct is
unsuccessful. The CBD and distal pancreatic margin are submitted for frozen section analysis. the residual
frozen tissue submitted on face for permanent sections. The pancreas is initially bisected through the
ampuila of Valor. towards the distal margin. revealing a poorly demarcated. dense. pink-gray tumor mass
measuring upwards of 3.1 x 3.0 x 2.2 cm. and grossly approaching within 2.8 cm of the distal margin of
the pancreas. and 2.8 cm from the common bile duct margin and grossly approaching within 0.5 cm of the
pancreatic notch/adventitlal margin. The length of the common bile duct is opened, revealing a light pink
and tan mucosa that is roughly kinked within the head of the pancreas. and routes parallel to the
pancreatic duct and inserts 0.3 cm trom the pancreatic duct into the "ampulla of Valor“. The tumor mass
approaches within 0.5 cm of the edge of the CEO. The tumor is primarily oriented within the head of the
pancreas with discrete contiguous relationship with the ompuila of Valor.

in addition. 2.0 cm proximal to the ampulla of Valor. the small bowel demonstrates a distinctly raised.
granular area ofdensity. that upon sectioning reveals evidence of an accessory duct with associated
firmness suspicious for tumor (CT-ca). The area appears to grossly approach within 0.5 cm of the superior
edge of the radial surface. 1.0 cm of the posterior surface. 0.3 cm of the inferior surface. and 0.7 cm of the
anterior surfaceJ'he surrounding pancreatic parenchyma is admixed fatty and glandular. pink and tan.

No additional lesions are appreciated along the small bowel length. however. the pyloric ridge
demonstrates raised granular changes. The gastric mucosa Is wrinkled. erythematous light pink and tan.

however. abruptly transitions to severely congested. deep red-brown throughout the proximal two-thirds of
the gastric antmm. No additional lesions appreciated.

Initial examination of the peripancreatlc fat reveals twenty additional lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 cm -
1.4 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm each. Examination of the lesser and greater gastric fat does not reveal gross lymph
node content. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted for microscopic evaluation. with the specimen
retained in solution to enhance future lymph node. identiﬁcation ll' Indicated.

Cassette summary:

Ct) distai pancreatic surgical margin. FS.

02) 080 margin. FS.

03) additional 030 distal and.

CA) 080 and adjacent tumor relationship.

C5-06) Av lesion. parallel CBD and pancreatic duct insertion relationship.
C'I-C8) duodenal lesion. possible fused accessory duct - head of pancreas.
09) tumor and pancreatic notchladventllial margin relationship. possible lymph node.
010) additional pancreatic notch margin. two pieces.

Ci 1) pancreatic tumor. superior edge.

012) tumor. posterior edge. including two lymph nodes.

013) anterior pancreas. lengthwise sectioned. including distal edge of pancreatic duct. former margin
shaved for frozen section.

Case #1

iaég'ﬁ
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

(:14) inferior pancreas.

C15) most distal unclnate. ‘

016) proximal gastric margin ol resection. anterior and posterior.
Ct?) distal small bowel margin of resection, trimmed and submitted.
01 8) gastric tissue. including pytorus,

019) pylorus and distal length of small bowel.

620) small lymph nodes,

C21) six lymph nodes.

622) single lymph node. -

C23) two lymph nodes bisected. one marked orange.

024) two lymph nodes bisected. one marked green.

825) single lymph node bisected.

026) single lymph node bisected.

627) single lymph node trisecled.

628) largest lymph node trlsected.

029) peripanoreatlc tat possible lymph node or tumor content. adjacent ink surfaces. four places. -

Microscopic Description;

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

5. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

0. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

An intredepartmentai consultation with—was obtained.

— - paw-

Primary Tumnr Site Discrepancy
HlUAA Disnepa
Prior Miti‘na

 

 

Dual/s n. r a"

 

 

 

 

