   

EBA-514080

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

FSA: Soft tissue, trachea, biopsy

— Squamous cell carcinoma in situ.

— Scant stroma, no invasive carcinoma identified.

FSB: Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy
~ No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/5 lymph node
fragments).

FSC: Lymph nodes, station 7, biopsy
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/7 lymph node
fragments).

FSD: Lymph nodes, area 7, biopsy

— N0 metastatic carcinoma identified (0/26 lymph node
fragments).

ESE: Lymph nodes, area 4, biopsy

— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/24 lymph node
fragments).

FSF, F: Lung, right, pneumonectomy

Tumor histologic type (WHO): squamous cell carcinoma, usual
and basaloid variant subtypes

Tumor histologic grade (WHO): moderate to poorly
differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.0 cm

 

Other structures involved: none

Pleural involvement: not identified

In situ carcinoma: present

Extent of invasion:

vascular not definitely identified. perineural not

identified satellite nodules present (2, same lobe, 1.6cm
and 1.7cm diameters)

Surgical margins: not involved

Lymph nodes: metastatic squamous carcinoma (3/15) (F7, F9,
F10)

Extracapsular extension in nodes: not identified
Findings in nontumorous lung: anthracosis
AJCC Staging: pT4 le pMX

This staging information is based on this pathologic
specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of
all available information is recommended to determine final
staging.

G: Lymph nodes, level 9, biopsy
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/3).

H: Lymph nodes, level 10, biopsy
— No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2).

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section was requested by -

FSAl: Soft tissue, trachea, biopsy

H Squamous cell carcinoma in situ, no invasive carcinoma
identified, but scant

stroma available for evaluation

Dr. has reviewed slides (levels 1 and 2) and concurs.

FSBl: Lymph node, R4, biopsy
— Lymph node fragments with no carcinoma identified

FSCl: Lymph node, station 7, biopsy

 

— Lymph node fragments with no carcinoma identified

FSDl and FSDZ: Lymph node, area 7, biopsy
— Enlarged lymph node; representative sections negative for
carcinoma

FSEl ad FSEZ: Lymph node, area 4, biopsy
— Representative sections of lymph nodes, negative for
carcinoma

FSFl: Lung, right, "tracheal margin", thoracotomy
— Tracheal margin with no carcinoma identified (invasive or

in situ)

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

with right upper lobe carcinoma (SCC). CIS: Rads: Pre—op
PET shows a R suprahilar mass with regional signal c/w
nodes, without ENT or abdominal signal to suggest
metastases to the lung.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section and is a
0.4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm aggregate of red/tan soft tissue
fragments that are submitted in FSAl, NTR.

Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section and is a
0.6 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm aggregate of four black/tan lymph node
candidates that are submitted in F331, NTR.

Specimen C is received fresh for frozen section and
subsequently placed in formalin and is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm
aggregate of five black/tan lymph node candidates that are
submitted in FSCl, NTR. Specimen D is received fresh for
frozen section and subsequently placed in formalin and is a
7.1 gram 5 X 3.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of red/tan lobulated
tissue fragments containing numerous lymph node candidates.
Representative sections are submitted as frozen section
FSDl—FSDZ and the frozen section remnants are submitted in
31—06.

Specimen E is received fresh for frozen section and is a
6.7 gram, 4 x 2.6 x l.__ cm aggregate of lymph node
candidates. A representative section is frozen

 

as FSEl—FSE2. Frozen section remnant is submitted in block
FSEl and FSE2. The remainder of the specimen is submitted
in block E1~E4.

Specimen F is received fresh for frozen section and
subsequently placed in formalin and labeled "right lung,
trachea, carina, stitch marks tracheal margin".

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: Right
pneumonectomy

Size of specimen: 18 x 14.5 x 8.1 cm
Weight of specimen: 600 grams

Other attached structures: 6.0 cm long x 2.0 cm in diameter
tracheal

Orientation: Inking: Pleura over main mass/blue, pleura
over satellite lesion #1/black, pleura over satellite
lesion #2/green.

Tumor location: Central, located in the fissure between the
upper and lobe at the upper bronchus.

Tumor size: 5 x 4.5 x 4.3 cm

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: The tumor encases and
invades the upper lobe bronchus. The tumor grossly invades
across the linea fissure between the upper and lower lobe
into and adjacent fissure lymph node. The tumor grossly
abuts and distorts the wall of the hilar vessels.

Distance of tumor to tracheal margin: 2.4 cm
Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: Grossly abuts

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: The tumor
grossly abuts the hilar vasculature.

Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: Present.
Lesion 1 (1.6 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm) located 1.6 cm superior to
the main mass. This lesion grossly abuts the pleura (inked
blue) and is located 0.8 cm from lesion 2. Lesion 2

(1.7 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm) located 3.0 cm superior to the main

 

mass and 0.8 cm from lesion 1. This lesion grossly abuts
the green inked pleuraf

Involvement of attached structures by tumor: The tumor
grossly abuts the attached trachea.

Description of nontumorous lung: The upper lobe is red and
spongy with abundant mucous plugs. The lower lobe is
tan/pink, spongy and grossly unremarkable. No mass lesions
are identified. The middle lobe is tan/pink spongy and no
mass lesions are identified.

Digital photograph taken: No

Tissue submitted for special investigation: Yes. Tumor and
normal to tissue procurement.

Block Summary:

Inking: Pleura overlying main mass/blue, pleura over lesion
1/black, pleura

over lesion 2/green

FlHF2 — Vascular margins

F3 — Tracheal margin, superseded by frozen section

F4—F5 — Hilar lymph nodes

F6 — Tumor invading upper lobe bronchus

F7 — Tumor abutting hilar vessels

F8 H Tumor with adjacent hilar lymph node

F9—F10 m Tumor with respect to upper lobe and lower lobe
linear fissure and

fissure lymph node

F11 — Tumor with overlying blue inked pleura

F12 — Tumor with adjacent normal

F13 — Tumor with respect to-lesion #1 (black)

F14 — Parenchyma between lesion #1 and #2

F15 — Lesion #2 (green)

F16 — Representative sections of lower lobe parenchyma
F17 — Representative sections of middle lobe parenchyma

Specimen G is received in a formalinnfilled container
labeled "level 9" and is a 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm fragment of
tan/brown soft tissue submitted entirely in block

Gl.

Specimen H is received in a formalin—filled container
labeled "level 10“ and is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm fragment of
tan/brown soft tissue submitted entirely in

block H1.

 

