Patient Name:
Med. Rec. #:
DOS:

Gender;

Ref. Physmian:
Patient Address:

Rel. Source;

 

is & Histor :
in incidentai ielt renat mass discovered on CT

Sgecimens Submitted:

i' Kidney. leit mass. partial nephrectomy
2: Kidney, ieit. temptation neptirectomy
3: Perinephric fat, left. excision

 

Accession #:
Data at Premature:

Data at Receipt
Date of Report:
Account it;
Billing Type.
Addilinnat Copy to:

 

DIAGNOSIS:

t.

‘2.

Kidney, left mass. partiat nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Rena! (30.” cartinema — Unclassified type
The tumor has oncocylic. tubuiar and papillary features

Tunic: Size;
Greatest diameter is 3.8 cm.

Local invasion (in: renal cortical typos):
Not identified

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
F ree of Emma;
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremarkabie

Adrenal Gland;
Not identified

Lymph Nndnn:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell caretnomamnmmytmna:

9T1 Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

Comment: imniunoiiisiochemicai stains show the tumor cells to be strongly pesitive for E-cadherin and C01 t7: positive {or

Ca-Q and racernase and negative {or (30’.

Kidney, left, completion neplarectumy'
uNo residual carcinoma is identiﬁed.
-Unremarkable renal parenchyma
“incidental medultary iiiaruina (G2cm) is identiﬁed

 

Page ‘t of 3

 

 

Unremarkahle urolhelium
"Unremarkable renat vessels

3. Perinephric tat. left. excision:
Benign titaroadipose tissue

lft'T'TES't THAT T Hi': ABOVE DiAGNUSIS :3 BhSED UPON 5W 5‘ERSONAL EKMJINIH EON 0? THE SLiDtS U’WU- OR Diﬁtit iilAlEitiftL} AND [HA3 3 HAVE;

RFWEWED AND Nag-JROVEB NHL REPOR‘ —

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

CK?

CIA-1X.
RACEMASE
E-CADHERtN
C01}?

NEG CONT
tivitvt RECUT

 

Gross Descrtgtion:

 

t). The specimen is received trash l . enat mass". it consists ot a 5. 0 x5 .0 x 2. 8 cm wedge shaped
portion of kidney with a suture marking the deep margin The margin is inked black and the specimen is seriatiy sectioned to
reveal 31.8 x 3.5 x 't t) om. the clearance from the resection margin is 0.1 cm A representative section of the nearest margin is
submitted tor frozen section diagnosis. Representativeiy submitted. Portions of the tumor are submitted for TPS.

Sunmtaiy of sections

FSC — frozen section control
T - tumor

RS - i'oprt-2Senlaiive sections

 

2). The specimen is received tresh. labeled “left kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels and
perinephrio lat weighing 182 g in total The kid ney measures 12.0 x5 52:: 3 4 cm. The attached ureter measures 8.0 Chi in length
and 0.2 cm in diametof. The attached renal vein measures 1.5 cm in length and 0. 8 {Sill in diameter The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unramarkabte. An adienai gland is not identified, There is a central surgicat detect in the kidney
measuring 7 .5 x 5.0 x 2.5 cm. The kidney is bivatvod to reveal a 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm wet: deﬁned gray-white firm locus located in
the medulla in the upper pole. “Fire remaining kidney shows pinkuorowo parenchyma. with a well-deﬁned corticomeduitary
tunclioa. The cortex measures 0.5 cm and the eatyces appear normal There are no other lesions identified. There are no
lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the porinephrio lat. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary oi sections:

UVM u ureterai and vesset margins
F -_ 0.2 cm focus

Dusurgisal defect

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections
K -- representative sections kidney

 

3}. The specimen is received fresh. taheled "pori-nephrio tat, left" and consists of tnuitépie pieces at adipose tissue measuring 12.0
x 10.5 x 3.5 cm in aggregate. No tumor or lymph nodes identities. Representative sections are submitted

Summary 02 sections:

 

Pagez oi3

 

 

 

F-- adipose tissue

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: Kidney, left mass. partiat nepiirectomy

Stock Sect. Site
1 fee

2 rs

4 t

PCs
i
2
4

Part 2: Kidney, left, completion nephrectomy

  

Block Sect. Site PCS

3 d 3

i t t

t k 1

1 re 1

1 own 1

Part 3: Perinephrtc tat. left. excision

Bteck Sect. Site PCs

t f t

Iiiti‘tiopurtitiw Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample exariiined at the time oi the intraoperntive
coristittation.

t) FROZEN SECTtON DIAGNOStS: SP; LEFT RE ONCOCYTIC RENAt CORt'iCAt.

NEOPLASM. MARGiN SS CLOSE. BUT NEGATIV

PERMANENT {DIAGNOSISisatne

 
   
 

 

 

Page 3 of 3

ENG OF REPORT

 

