 

A. ~ E.) PANCREAS, DUODENUM, DISTAL STOMACH, GALLBLADDER. APPENDIX.
CELIAC LYMPH NODE, PANCREATICODUODENECTOMY (WHIPPLE RESECTION).
TOTAL PANCREATECTOMY, DISTAL GASTRECTOMY, CHOLECYSTECTOMY.
APPENDECTOMY AND REGIONAL LYMPH MODE DISSECTION:
~ POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA.

~ 4.5 cm in greatest dimension.
- Involves pancreatic head and portion of pancreatic body.
: Invades ampulia of Vater, duodenal wall, duodenal mucosa, and invades
peripancreatic soft tissue.
- MARGEN STATUS: POSITIVE.
- Tumor focally extends to the inferior anterior margin.
~ All other margins negative for tumor.
~ PERINEURAL iNVASION: PRESENT.
- EIGHT OF TWENTY-FOUR TOTAL LYMPH MODES, POSITIVE FOR
METASTATIC CARCINOMA (8124).
- CHRONiC CHOLECYSTITIS.
~ FIBROUS LUMINAL OBLITERATION OF APPENDICEAL TIP.
— SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY:
Type and grade: Ductal adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor: on (tumor invades ampulla of Vater, duodenal wail,
duodenal mucosa and peripancreatic soft tissue).
Regional lymph nodes: pm (twenty-four lymph nodes; eight positive for
metastasis).
Distant metastasis: Not applicable.
Pathologic stage: “13.
Lymphovasouiar invasion: Not identified.
Mar in status: Rt tumor focal) exte

    

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Tumor Staging Information
Data oeriv
Handbook

Specumen'

Procedure:

TUMOR FEATURES:
Tumor site:
Tumor size:

Histologio type:
Histologic grade

' Lympnowsoniar invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Tumor extension:

Treatment effect:
LYMPH MODES:
MARGIN EVALUATION

Distance to oiosest margin.
Other margins:

PATHOLOGJC TUMOR STAGlNG DESCRFPTORS.

Primary tumor:

Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis
Margin status.
Pathologic stage:

Additional pathologic findings:

current specimen. ‘ ' ' nce with or modified from AJCC Cam-er Staging
and GAS3 protocot

3
Head. body. and tail of pancreas ooonennm ileiH-l‘
stomach. galluiadmv and apptmnzz
Panci'eancodnooesrectum}: WVlltpplL-I :eseimazi-i has
pancreateclomy. partial gasn‘ectomy. oholecystectomy
and appendectomy

Pancreatic head and body.

Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm.

Additional dimensions 4 x 2 5 cm

DtiCtal adenocarcinoina

Poorly dinereritialed

Nu] ldit‘lllltteij

Present

Tumor invades ainpnlla oi Vatei (itirntenai wait and
extends into duodenat musesa and oeripancreatic soft
tissue.

Not applicable.

Eight of twenty-four lymph nodes. positive for metastaiir
car‘oinoma {8!24).

pDSl'E'WE {RH
Tumor toealiy extends it) :itietioi autumn lllil1L3Ei‘:
.Jninvolved by JilVHSin} carcinoma

pTS (turner involes ampulta Oi Vaier. rtundenal wail
duodenal mucosa, and peripancreatic soft tissue)
{3N1 (8f24 lymph nodes).

Not appiicabte.

R1 (tumor tooaliy involves inferior-anterior itttiltjttli
IIB

Acute and chronic pancreatitas
Panama-1hr“. intraepttheient Hearth-min gt‘nnnn \jfnkh‘ "

 

 

 

 

 

FiNAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

Source of Sgecimen:
A Gailhladder

8. Appendix

C. Lymph node;Celiac

D. Whipple

E. Body and tail of pancreas

Clinioai Hlstorvaperatlve Dx:
Pancreatic lesion.

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
D FSDi: Whipple procedure: Pancreatic margin positive.
FSDZ: Bile duct and portion of pancreatic margin Bile duct negative

  

Gross Description;

A. The specimen is labeled gallbladder and is received in tonnalin. it concrete 0: an intact gallbladder
which is 10.7 cm in length and has a maximum diameter of 4.8 cm at the tulidus. The tree serosal sci-lace
is pale violet. smooth and shiny. The cystic duct is slightly angutated and siighliy lhlckwwalied bui the
cystic duct is patent. There is a 0.7 cm linn cystic duct node. The gallbladder wall is 0.3 cm in thickness.
The mucosa is Ian to pale green and velvety to ﬁnely nodular. There are no calculi present.
Representative sections are submitted in cassette A1

B. The specimen is labeled appendix and is received in tormalin ll consist of a C-shaped appendix which
is 4 5 cm in length and has a maximum diameter centrally of 0 7’ cm The serosal surface is 11%|) smooth
and shiny. The appendiceal wall is intact. The mesoappendix IS unremarkable The i’lroxnnai marom
inked. Sections are unremarkable. Representative sections are submineu in cosmetic Bl -

C. The specimen is labeled celiac lymph node and 15 received ill ionnalin ll concists ol a roughly ovoid
fragment of ﬁbrofalty tissue which is 2 cm in maximum dimension. it appears to contain tour discrete
iymph nodes, the largest ofwhich measures 1.6 x 0 7 x (M cm and the smallest node is 0.4 cm in
maximum dimension. The two largest nodes are inked with contrasting coiors. They are serially sectioned
and submitted in cassette Cl. The two smaller nodes are Inked with contrasting colors. They are sectioned
and submitted in cassette 02.

 

 

 

FiNAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

D The specimen is iabeled Whipple procedure and is received without ﬁxative it consists of a composite
resection which includes a t2.5 x 8 x 2.5 cm portion of gastric tissue and a 21 cm segment of duodenum
The proximal and disiet margins are stapled. The tree serosat surface of the gastric portion is
reddish-viotet and smooth with a small amount of pengastric adipose tissue. A prominent lymph node is
adherent to the pyloric portion oithe resection Just dislai to the pylorus [tit-3W is a hard is x 4 8 x ‘3 3 cut
portion of pancreatic tissue There are several posteriorly located pat'ipancleatir: lymph stories which are
up to t.5 cm in maxrmum dimension Along the postertoi‘~3Lr;.iei‘ior edge u! the pancreatic assur- drew. in tr
3.8 cm segment oi markedly dilated bile duct which is up to ‘t.3 cm in diameter The bite oticl margin and
the distal pancreatic margin are removed and submitted for frozen section The bile duct is opened to
reveal a braided metailic steel within the lumen of the bile duct The anterior—superior surface of the
pancreas is inked hide. the anterior~interior and compete portion of the pancreas is inked green. and the
posterior surface is inked black The tree serosal sun‘ace of the duodenum is reddish—violet with stringing
fibrous adhesions but the duodenal wail appears intact. The specimen is opened to reveai the gastric
mucosa has small irregular rugal folds and ES dark red and hyperemic throughout. The pytortis t3 3 5 cm in
diameter and shows similar dark red hemorrhagic discoloration Hemorrhagic discotoratson extends L? 5 fitt‘.
distal to the pytorus in the proxrmat duodenal mucosa. The atripuiia 0: Voter :5 ITOEJéitE‘U ? 5 un: distrii at

the pylorus and a braided metallic sleet is QFESEIH at thr- ampulla Tire unoerivint; §)alatil't‘-'¢’-il<t.. 1mm—
prominently firm and on sectaooingi. the head oi the pancreas is hearty completely replaced :iv a “to

pale tan to pate yellow neopiasm which is rocaity centralty necrotic This neoplasm riverai: tricastuus st 1
at x 2.5 cm. The neoplasm appears to encrrcie the ampetla but does not grossly appear to extend into the
duodenal mucosa surrounding the ampulla. The neoplasm i5 9 5 cm from the distal litatgtit and 1:! to:
from the proximal margin. The neopiasro abuts the anterior aad posterior surfaces of the pancreas and
appears present at the distal pancreatic resection margin grossly The distat duodenai mucosa is pate ted
but shows normal appearing mticosal folds and there is a submucosal pale yettow. 0.4 cm noduie located
3 cm distal to the ampulla. No other mucosat lesions are identiﬁed within the duodenum There is very
titlte adherent peripaacreatic tat Following fixation. representative sectioas are submitted. Section
summary: 01) distal pancreatic margin from frozen section. 02) bite (tact margin and portion. or pancreatic
margin front frozen section, 03—04) proximal gastric margin. 05) representative gastric has-tie hum fttitdus
06) representative pylorus. D7) proximal duodenal mucosa jUSt distat to pylorus, 08-99} sci-turns tit
aittpolia and periwampuliary mucosa tslent has peer.- dislodoedi. Di? 013i actor-ii: interim- realm-r
pancreas, Diet} posteriorsuitace of pancreas 015036) representative pancreatic tumor 1')‘= " tits: 'rt't'lhiii‘
of pancreatic tumor and bile duct as it enters the pancreas D‘lQ‘i smait duodenal socioecosal tosion distal
to amptsiia, 020) distal duodenal margin. O21) lymph node at pytorus. 022) iargost peripni'i<-.it-\;«it:c' worn:

and adiacent pancreatic tumor. E323) additionat posterior peripancreatic tymph node, D24) additionat
posterior peripancreatic tymph node. [3254326) additional possitlte peripancreatic nodes

;i

E. The specimen is labeled body and tail of pancreas and is received to formalin ll consrsts of a roughly
otiiptical portion at pancreatic tissue which weighs 11 grams. Black Sutures are present at one end of the
specimen and road the body of the pancreas. The external surtace vanes from smooth to siirgtittv (tttﬁltttttt‘t'!
near the tail of the pancreas The entire external surface is inked The specimen is serialiy sectioned
perpendicular to the long axss to reveat it is composed of moderately lit-m pate yellow ttsrntr, will a e unim-
hen’lort’haglt: appearing tubular Structure? wl'itc'rt courses nearly though 'ht t'rttt'l‘ stirsnntir-

Watt—delineated tumor is not apprecrated grossly The Specimet't is sequenttaiiy and entirely monitttar; .ts
surttmarizod beiOvr. Section summary Et) head of pancreas as on face section E2«E8i sections
progressmg toward tail. E9) tail as perpendicuiai sections

 

 

 

FINAL SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have beeﬂ examined. The mimosccplc ﬁndings are reflected in She dragnome

{BITCH-NEG.

B. MicrOSCOpic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the dlagnosss
rendered

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic [ﬁndings are refieczed m the diagnosis
rendered.

D. Microscopic seciions have been exemmed The :ntcroscopjc fmdmge are {eﬂetxec m the cixagnosm
rendered.

E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflemed in the diagnosus
rendered.

 

 

 

