Surgical Pathology Report

 

CLINICAL HISTORY

—as experienced progressive memory loss, headache,

lower extremity weakness, and recently developed — On
imaging, there is a multicystic, enhancing, left frontal tumor that extends

across midline.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Left frontal brain tumor

Operation/Specimen: A: Left frontal tumor, excision biopsy
B: Frontal brain tumor, excision biopsy
C: Brain, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A. Brain, left frontal, excisional biopsy: Brain tissue with focal
necrosis

and microvascular proliferation.

B and C. Brain, frontal, excisions:

l. Glioblastoma.

2. MIB~1 proliferation index: 50%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

Part A is portions of cerebrum, and fragments of necrotic tissue. There is
not viable tumor in this specimen.

Parts B and C are portions of cerebrum that are heavily infiltrated and
extensively effaced by a glial small cell neoplastic proliferation. The
neoplastic cells have nuclear anaplasia, brisk mitotic activity, and a very
high proliferation index of about 50% throughout the tumor. There is focal
microvascular cellular proliferation, and there are zones of tumor necrosis,

some with pseudopalisading.

The neoplasm is a glioblastoma (WHO grade IV).

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA

MGMT Promoter Methylation
eeee eeeeeeee— Date Reported: —

Interpretation

NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRTPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment

of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA

followed
by realwtime PCR.amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated

DNA

sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial
dilution of methylated positive control DNA_into unmethylated DNA, and was
assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated DNA.
Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the sample, or
extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated MGMT

promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its performance
characteristics de ermined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA 'i regulations. It as no son c eared or approved for
specific uses by the 0.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results
are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

Interpretation

NEGATIVE — No evidence of EGFRvIII mutation is detected

Results—Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tumor paraffin
block

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular
target

in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III
(EGFRvIII) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that
is

commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRvIII as defining prognostically distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRVIII has been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA
is

then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA.templates. PCR products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this assay

has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA '-regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results
are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

 

INTRA~OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

A.
Left frontal tumor, excision biopsy: Necrotic lesion. - Requested
viable

lesion. Touch preparation smears performed at — and
results

reported to the Physician of Record.

B.
Frontal brain tumor, excision bio sy: Malignant glioma with extensive
necrosis (C/W glioblastoma) . i Touch preparation smears performed at

 

_and results reported to the Physician of Record.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.

Left frontal tumor, excision biopsy: Received fresh, one fragment, 1.8 x 0.7
x

0.4 cm. Soft, dark brown, focally white. In total, Al and A2.

B. Frontal brain tumor, excision biopsy: Received fresh, five fragments,
3.0

x 1.7 X 0.6 cm in aggregate. Soft, glistening, tannish—brown. In total, B1
and B2.

C. Brain, excision biopsy: CONTAINER LABEL: patient‘ 5 name
FIXATIVE: fresh

GENERAL: Received are two tanmpink to red irregular tissue fragments,
aggregating to 1.8 x 1.7 x 0.4 cm.

SECTIONS: 1, NS

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The CPA? demonstrates a heavy gliofibrillary

background. The C3163 highlights heavy infiltration of the tumor by
positive

cells. The CD34 depicts prominent focal microvascular cellular
proliferation.

The NeuN and synaptophysin demonstrate the tumor infiltration and
effacement

of cerebral cortex. With the MIB~1 there is a proliferation index greater

than 50% throughout the tumor.

ICE—9(3):
191.1 191.1

 

Histo Data

Part A: or, excision biopsy
Taken: Received: —

Stain/cut Block Ordered Comment

 

H/E x l
TPS H/E x 1
H/E x 1
H/E x 1

Part B: Frontal brain tumor, excision '

Taken: — Received: k
Stain/cut Block Comment
CD163 Vector x 1
CD34—DA X 3.
EGFRmslides x l
mGFAP-DA x l

H/E x 1

KPlh-DA x 1
MGMTwslides X 1
MIBl—DA x l
Synap—DA x 1

TPS H/E x l

H/E x 1

H/E X 1

Part C: Brain excision biopsy
Taken: — eeeeieeee —

Stain/cut Block Ordered Comment

we 1 _

(AJNl-‘H

 

w M H H H H MVP H14 H14

 

*** End of Report ***

 

