 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
Left kidney. radical nephrectomy:
Inﬁltrating renal carcinoma.

Tumor Characteristics:

I-listolcgic type: Papillary (chromophil) renal cell carcinoma. oncocytic variant. with extensive degenerative changes and necrosis.

PM

Tumor site: Left kidney,

Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor involves perinephric adipose tissue.

Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade: 214.

Lymphovascuiar space invasion: Not identiﬁed.

T ranscapsular invasion: Tumor locally inﬁltrates through renal capsule to involve berinephritic adipose tissue.

Renal vein invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Venacaval invasion: Not resected.

a

Adrenal gland: Not identiﬁed.

.pooqpxmem

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Soft tissue marglns: Negative for tumor.
2. Ureteral margin: Negative for tumor.
3 . Vascular Margins: Negative for tumor.
Lymph Node Status:
No lymph nodes identiﬁed.
Other Signiﬁcant Findings:

1. pTNM stage: T33 NX MX, stage Ill.

Staging Sheet-

 

 

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Left renal mass
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologlc Findings:

SPECIMENS:
Lott kidney

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

Received in formalin labeled t and #1 is a_ nephrectomy specimen. consisting ofa 10.5 x 5.8 x 3.1 cm kidney. with a moderate
amount of attached perinephric fat. The specimen has een previously bivalved. There is a minimal amount of identiﬁable ureter and a minimal amount
of possible renal vein and artery. The capsule is smooth and tan. The cut surface consists of a 5.2 x 4.5 x 4.1 cm focally cystic tan red to orange mass,
which diffusely involves the adipose tissue, and abuts the inked perinephric fat. The adipose tissue adjacent to the mass has a glistening yellow
appearance. The remainder of the cut surface consists of Ian pink parenchyma. with a 0.4 cm tan brown cyst. The cortical medullary junction is ill
deﬁned. The urothelium is gray white. No enlarged lymph nodes are identiﬁed. The adrenal gland is not present. The specimen ls Inked. serially
sectioned and representative sections are submitted as labeled. 1—— ureterovascular margins: 2 to 4—mass to inked perinephric fat; 5—mass; 6—mass to
uninvolved parenchyma: T—ollstenlng yellow adipose tissue adjacent to mass; 8--uninvolved parenchyma to include cyst; 9-‘unlnvolved parenchyma.
The bl .lso received In the same container are two orange cassettes labeled A and C and a green and yellow cassette

labels rgegggth research study. __ _ _ m. _ .. _

 

 

