 

 

 

UUID: SGAC30F1-6158-491C- B7AF- 28E64F04358Ed
TCGA- H6- 8124- 91A- PR

I” ll lHIIHH|llllﬂ"IIllIIIHIIIHIIHHINIIHll III"
M "NIH!IHINIIIHHIIIHHIIH lllﬂlllllllllmilll Illirlnlljllmfe

Ill llllllllllllll||||IIIIIIIIIIIIHIH|||llllllllllHlHHllIlll

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure:

Diagnosis

A. Head of pancreas and duodenum, resection:

Moderately to poorly differentiated invasive pancreatic
adenocarcinoma. ductal type.

Note: The margins of resection are negative for malignancy.
Metastatic carcinoma is present in 2 of 9 peripancreatic lymph nodes.

8. Gallbladder, resection: Subacute and chronic cholecystitis

Microscopic Description:
A‘

Histologic type: Pancreatic adenocarcinoma, ductal type

Tumor size: 3 cm

Tumor location: Head of pancreas, 4.5 cm from gross pancreatic

margin

Tumor grade: 2—3 of 3

Perineural invasion: Present

Vascular invasion: Focally compatible with lymphatic invasion

Uncinate margin: Negative for malignancy

Pancreatic margin: Negative for malignancy.

Lymph nodes: Metastatic carcinoma is present in 2 of 9
peripancreatic lymph nodes. The largest metastasis is 1 mm
in greatest dimension.

Duodenum: Unremarkable

Uninvolved pancreas: Chronic pancreatitis with atrophy and fibrosis

pTNM stage: T3 N1

Other findings: The tumor focally invades up to a peripancreatic
lymph node in block A3, so I consider it not ”limited to the
pancreas"

B. Microscopic examination performed.

Specimen

A. Head of pancreas duodenum bile duct stitch short uncinate long neck
pancreas

B. Gallbladder

Clinical Information
Mass head of pancreas

Intraoperative Consultation
Head of pancreas and duodenum, resection: Ductal carcinoma of
pancreas. Margins negative for malignancy.

 

 

 

Gross Description

The specimen is received unfixed head of pancreas duodenum and bile
duct so duodenal and head of pancreas resection specimen. The duodenal
portion the specimen measures 25 cm in length and up to 4.5 cm in
diameter are the pancreatic portion the specimen measures 6.5 by 2.5 by
5 cm. There are sutures on the specimen. A long suture is on the
pancreatic resection margin where there are staples. The short suture
is in the uncinate margin. The pancreatic margin is inked blue the
uncinate margin is inked red the duodenal mucosa is edematous over the
head of the pancreas but is otherwise unremarkable. On cut section
there is a white sclerotic mass that is 3 cm in diameter in the head of
the pancreas and appears to be 4.5 cm from the pancreatic margin. The
margins and the tumor are taken for frozen section diagnosis. A portion
of tumor and pancreas are taken for research purposes. Sections after
fixation.

Block summary: 1,2 duodenal margins of resection; 3'6 tumor head of
pancreas; 7 peripancreatic lymph nodes; 8 ampulla of Vater; 9~13 more
distal pancreas; 14—18 peripancreatic lymph nodes.

Specimen B. is received unfixed labeled gallbladder and consists of a
pink and green gallbladder measuring 8 by 4 by 1 cm. Gallbladder
contains abundant green viscous. No gallstones are seen. The wall of
the gallbladder 0.2 cm in thickness. The mucosal surface is tan to
green. Sections after fixation. R52

