SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number : -

Diagnosis:

A: Lung, right upper lobe, wedge resection.

— Invasive moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma,
tumor size 2.0 cm in greatest dimension (see comment).

— Surgical margins free of tumor.

B: Lymph node, R4, removal.
— No tumor seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).

Comment:

This patient has a history of a prior laryngeal T4 squamous cell
carcinoma. We have reviewed the tumor in the lung and the tumor
of the larynx, and the tumors appear similar, with the laryngeal
tumor showing slightly less squamous differentiation. It is not
possible to determine if the tumor in the lung represents
metastatic disease or a new primary. Review of the clinical
workstation reveals that the multidicsiplinary thoracic oncology
conference favored a new primary lung cancer.

Clinical History:
The patient is a I—year—old female with right upper lobe
lesion.

Gross Description:

Received are two appropriately labeled containers.
Container A is additionally labeled "RUL wedge resection."
Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen/parts of lung received: right upper lobe wedge
resection

Size of specimen: 10 x 4.8 x 1.5 cm
Weight of specimen: 38.7 grams

Other attached structures: n/a

Tumor location: peripheral

Tumor size: There is a complex staple line running the length of
the specimen;

there is a 1.4 cm pleural disruption (2.4 cm from closest staple
line) and a 0.6 cm

second pleural disruption which is 0.3 cm from the larger
disrupted area (1.0 cm to

staple line). The pleural is red/tan and mottled. The staple
line is inked blue, the

pleural is inked yellow and the disrupted areas are outlined in
yellow. Sectioning

exhibits a 2 x approximately 1.3 x 0.6 cm tan, firm nodule with
scalloped/lobulated

borders which is immediately beneath the largest disrupted site.
Immediately

adjacent to the noted nodule, there is a cavitary, necrotic area
which is believed

to be necrotic nodule.

Relationship of tumor to bronchus: n/a
Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: n/a

Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: approximately 0.6 cm,
however, the nodule

is immediately beneath a

disrupted site

Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: 1.0 cm
Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent
Involvement of attached structures by tumor: n/a

Description of nontumorous lung: the remainder of the lung
parenchyma is dark

red/tan, soft, spongy and aerated;

no other lesions, masses, or abnormalities are

identified

Comment: A small slice of tumor and a small slice of normal was
given to Tissue
Procurement.

Block Summary:

A1 — staple line closest to nodule

A2 — nodule

A3 — cavity necrotic area

A4 — additional tumor and adjacent lung parenchyma
A5 — uninvolved lung

Container B is additionally labeled "R—4 lymph node." It holds a
2.3 x 2.0 x 0.5 cm

aggregate of two fragments, one large and one small, of
red/gray, focally cauterized

lymphoid tissue which are submitted in block B1, NTR.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Tumor histologic type (WHO classification): squamous cell
carcinoma

Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification): moderately
differentiated

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.0 cm

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: surgical margins free
of tumor

Pleural involvement: not identified
In situ carcinoma: not identified
Invasion:

angiolymphatic — not identified

perineural — not identified

Lymph nodes (by node group): no tumor seen in 2 R4 lymph nodes
(0/2)

Findings in nontumorous lung: emphysematous changes

