..___...._..,_._______._.

Patient Results

 

Page i of 4 Clinical Center
a . uum: 715c1511- E8A2-4692—8C6A-9FF1DECGAEBeSd
m — TCGA- L6 A4ET— e1A- PR
Gamma.- . Birth Date.“ {II II II I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII
III

A -.,.-.............- ——...._..__. . . . ..

«a

IIlllllllllll

n lllllllll llilllllllll
AWW' "I mm mummum “mm" ”mm"

IlllIlllllIIllIllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

.._ ._._ -... _.- . __.- ..- ._. FinalRethgl
Surgical Pathology Final

CASE NUMBER-I“
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Thyroid, right lobe, total thyroidectomy:-
- Papillary thyroid carcinoma, follicular variant, (at least
6cm greatest dimension).
Tumor is present focally at black inked anterior margin.
(See CAP checklist below.)
— Extensive post—Fine Needle Aspiration artifact.

2. Thyroid, right, inferior, nodule, total thyroidectomy:
Adenomatoid nodule; no tumor seen.

3'. Thyroid, left lobe. total thyroidectomy: Adenomatoid nodules; no
tumor seen.

. 4. Thyroid, left, tubercle, total thyroidectomy: Benign thyroid
tissue; no tumor seen.

NOTE: ' [CD-’0’}

l
Thyroid carcinoma summary 4 W, p Afr/1M1, Frdr‘cahd VIA/d
Procedure: Total thyroidectomy g; W/g

Received: Fresh .9171: Mm’, Alas a 75. ‘f

1w

8 ecimen into n‘ : Intact

P 9 W _ F/ﬁ/IO-r
Specimen Size.

Right lobe and isthmus. 7cm x 3 9 cm x 2.1 cm

Left lobe and isthmus: 5.1cm x 2.1cm x 1 2 cm
Specimen Weight: 55.59
Tumor Focaiity: Unifocal

Dominant Tumor:
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe

Tumor Size:

Dimensions: 2.5 x 30m x 6cm‘

*Greatest dimensidn: at least 6cm. Exact measurement is not possible
since specimen was procured for research tissue ln-the OR by surgeon
and poet-procurement, the specimen measured 7cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen was entirely submitted and based on the presence of tumor
in most of the sections, we estimate the greatest dimension of the

tumor to be at least 6cm.

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma
Variant: Classical

Architecture: Follicular
Cytomorphology: Classical

Conﬁdential Patient information. Unnuihorimd disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of I974.

 

Requested By: W (Other)

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

Patient Results

 

 

Page 2 of 4 . Clinical Center
m ‘ n
Condom” Birth Date“ Ages-qr

Admit Protocol: "i "ii, .

. :~ V..=a=w.abs_:+.i.._~_.v

“a

 

histEi‘oEidEééEr‘ﬁEEeTatély} arsenals '

Margins: Tumor Is present family at black in'ked anterior margin

(sections it and 11).

Tumor Capsule: Encapsulated

Tumor Capsular invasion: Not identified

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identified

Perineurai invasion: Not identified

Extrathyroidal Extension: Cannot be assessed

Pathologic Staging:
Primary Tumor (p'f')

pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm limited to thyroid or any tumor with minimal
extrathyroid extension (eg, extension to sternothyroid muscle or

perithyrold
soft tissues)

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)#
pNX: Cannot be assessed

Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension

lndeterrninate

Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings:
Adenomatoid nodules

lmmunoperoxidasa and in-situ hybridization tests performed here and

used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory. of Pathology,
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA

They have not been

has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLiA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity

clinical laboratory testing.

CLINlCAL iNFORMATiON: Brief Clinical History: Right thyroid mass with

F NA showing papillary

cells Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes Allocate Order to

PROCEDURE: Pro-Operative Diagnosis: Right thyroid mass Post-Operative

Diagnosis:

Final Results]

 

('oniidcnlial Patient ini‘mmaiion. iionutixxizeti disclosure is prohibited by the Federal Privacy Act of i974.

 

Requested By: mother)

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

Patient Results

 

:
l,
1
l
i.
r

Page 3 of4 Clinical Center
m u
Gender: _9 Birth Date: an. Age: Q

Admit Protocol: m

 

 

 

Final Resultsl

 

,Seme.-.0p_e.r.a.t.ure ﬁndings: Enlarged right lobe. small left lobe. ._
signiﬁcant adhesion

SPECIMENS SUBMi‘i‘i‘ED: 1. THYROID, Right lobe
2. SOFT TISSUE, NOS, Right inferior nodule

3. THYROlD, Left lobe

4. SOFT TISSUE, NOS, Left tubercle

GROSS DESCRiPTION: Received are 4 freshly submitted specimens each in
containers labeled with the patients name. medical record number, and
further specified as follows:

1. “Right thyroid lobe: single stitch - isthmus, double stitch -
superior. The specimen is red-tan ﬁrm thyroid tissue mass
measuring 7 cm x 3.9 cm x 2.1 cm and weighs approximately 529.
The outer surface is rough. Thespecimen is oriented by Dr. , .

double stitch superior. single stitch hilum. The lateral
surface of the specimen is cut by Dr. ' " ‘ in the OR
showsing hard white tan homogeneous nodule measuring 2 cm x 2 cm.
Gross photographs are taken. 30% of the nodule is procured for Dr.

_. , and _ “"s by Dr ,. The
remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin and submitted to
Pathology permanent. Procurement was documented on
Post procurement, the anterior is inked

black, and the posterior is inked green. The specimen is received
in Surgical Pathology and matches the above description. The
specimen is received in Surgical Pathology and matches the above
description. The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to
inferior and entirely submitted in white cassettes , ‘
ﬂ‘.‘ There appears to be hard while caicifioations in the thyroid
tissue. .3 I corresponds to the nodular area that
was procured.

2. "Right inferior nodule". The specimen consists of tan—white
nodular. soft tissue measuring approximately 2.7 cm x 0.8 x 0.6
cm. The specimen is sectioned, staples removed, and entirely
submitted in white cassettes labeled-m Sectioning,
there appears to be 2 nodules measuring approximately 0.8 cm and
0.7 cm. One of the nodules. the smaller node, appears to have a
cystic lesion in the center of it.

3. "Left thyroid lobe single stitch: isthmus, double stitch: superior“
is an oriented partial thyroidectomy specimen consisting of'the left
thyroid lobe and minimal if any portion of isthmus. overall 5.1 x 2.1 r
x 1.2 cm and 3.5 grams. The external surface is rough and irregular
with focal cautery artifact. There is a double suture denoting the
superior left pole and a single suture denoting the isthmus.
Additional sutures are evident on the posterior aspect where Dr.
state that the left tubercle was transected (see specimen #4). in
the OR, Dr. " ' ' Trade one cut at the superior medial aspect
revealing red-pink ﬂeshy normal-appearing parenchyma. Gross

Conﬁdential Patient lnihrmalion. Unuuthoriwd'disclosure is prohibited b) the l-‘cdcml Privacy Act of [974.

 

Requested By: wow”) Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

..__ _____...__......._ _..._.~.. .... .._

Patient Results

 

Page 4 of 4 Clinical Center
Gender: ~ Birth Date: m Age: Q

I a

J

 

I. photographs are taken. Approximately 03 id) 5 x_0.1cmot the.
normal- -appearing thyroid parenchyma is precured for research with

equal halves provided to Dr

"HuandD The

anterior surface ls inked red, posterior surface inked black, and the
Isthmus' Is Inked green Left thyroid lobe Itself appears to be
comprised of at least 4 soft nodular tissues intermixed with normal

parenchyma. The nodules range from O 8 to 11 cm. The remainder of

the specimen Is placed into formalin and submitted to Pathology for
permanent processing The procurement was performed by

and .7 In the OR. The specimen' Is received' In
Surgical Pathology and matches the above description 0n sectioning.
two nodules are seen measuring approximately 0.6 cm and O 7cm In
greatest dimensions. The specimen is sectioned and submitted
entire“ from the Inferior to the superior in white casettes labeled

and 30: nodules.

4. "Left tubercle". The specimen consists of a nodular tan soft
tissue fragment measuring approximately 2.1 cm x 0 8 cm x 0 3 cm.
The specimen ls sectioned and entirely submitted in white cassette

labeled"

Gross Descn‘ption dictated by
gross description by Dr

No consultants
Accessioned:
Final Report Signed Out: ' " "

<Resldent SIoneture>

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Conﬁdential Patient Inihrmzulon. Unauthorized disclosme is prohibited by III

Additional

 

Requested Hyman")

Final Results}

 

74170 Ila/“£41111" WT‘II’

   
  

5'

Case
Reviewer

 
  
 

 

a, , . "'L‘"":l' l

Do not ﬁle inMedical Record

 

 

