 

Sgeciments) Received

1. ch: RT. perifacial node

2. Neck: contents right neck i reg

3. Neck: right hemiglossectomy (short stitch = anterior! long stitch = medial) - reg
4. Soft~Tissue: deep margin tongue ‘

Diagnosis
1. Right perifacial node:
— One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0ft).

2. Right neck. dissection:

- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma involving three of forty—four lymph nodes (3144).
a. All involved nodes are level ill.

b. Largest node involved: 1.8 cm.

0. Extracapsuiar extension present.

- Submandibular gland with miid chronic inflammation, negative for malignancy.

3. Right tongue, hemiglossectomy:

- Squamous cell carcinoma. poorly differentiated.

a. Maximal tumour dimension: 4.0 cm.

1). Tumour thickness: 2.3 cm.

c. Perineural invasion present.

d. invasive carcinoma seen focally very close (0.2 cm) to the media] margin. _
e. Severe squamous dysplasialcarcinoma in—siiu (CtS) seen focally close (0.3 cm) to the inferiorllateral margin.
f. All other margins negative for malignancy (> 0.5 cm).

4. Deep margin tongue:
- Negative for malignancy.

Synogtic Data

Specimen Type: Resectioanight hemiglossectomy
Tumor Site: Tongue

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma. conventional
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.0 cm

Tumor thickness: 2.3 cm

 

Page 1 of 3

 

 

    

Isto ogtc ' G3: Poorly differentiated
Venouleymphatlc (LargelSmall Vessel) invasion (VIL): Absent

Perineural Invasion: Present
Additional Pathologic Findings: Carcinoma in situ

Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor
- Margins uninvolved by tumor - Distance of tumor from closest margin: 0.2 cm
Margins: medial
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3: Tumor or lip or oral cavity more than 4 cm in greatest dimension
‘ pN2b: Metastasis in multiple lpsllateral lymph nodes, none more than 6 cm in greatest
dimension for all aerodigestive sites except nasopharynx
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 44
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 3
Extra-capsular extension of nodal tumor: Present .
pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

 

 

 

 

Gross Description
i. The specimen is labeled with the patients name and as "NCK: RT perifacial node". It consists of a lymph node that

measuresO.9..x08x05cm
1A bisected and submitted in toto

2. The specimen iabeied with the patient's name and as “neck: Contents right neck -— reg" consists of an unoriented neck
dissection with overall dimensions of 13.5 cm Sl x 6.0 cm AP x 2.5 cm ML. There is no suture orientation; the specimen
grossly appears to include right levels i. ii. I” and IV. as approximated utilizing the position of the submandibular giand.
The internal jugular vein and the sternocleldomastoid muscle are absent. The submandlbular gland measures 3.5 x 2.2 x
2.0 cm and is unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.8 cm are identified in multiple levels.
Representative sections are submitted.

2A submandibular gland

2B level 1. two lymph nodes

20 level it, two iymph nodes

2D—2F level Ill, one bisected lymph node per block

26 level III. two lymph nodes

2H level lll, three lymph nodes

2! level it], four lymph nodes

23 level ill. five lymph nodes

2K level IV, one bisected tymph node

2t. Ievei IV. three lymph nodes

2M-2N level lV, four lymph nodes per block

20-2P level IV, five lymph nodes per block

3. The specimen is labeled the patient‘s name and as ”neck: Right hemiglossectorny (short stitch = anterior/long stitch =
mediai)- reg". it consists of a portion of right tongue measuring 6 5 cm AP x 3. 4 cm SI x 3. 5 cm ML There is short
anterior tong medial suture orientation. There' is a firm tumor involving the tateral and dorsal surfaces of the tongue. The
tumor measures 4.0 cm AP x 3. 7 cm Sl x 2. 3 cm ML. The tumor is pale and well delineated and ulcerates the lateral
mucosal tongue surface. It grossly appears to involve the laterai mucosa] margin is 0.4 cm from the medial margin,
appears to involve the dorsal mucosal margin, is 0.2 cm from the inferior margin, 0.8 cm from the anterior margin, and 0.7
from the posterior margin. The remaining tongue mucosa has white plaques extending postero-superiorly from the tumor.
These plaques measure 1.0 cm AP x 1.0 cm Si in aggregate. The surgicat margins are painted with silver nitrate; superior
margins are over coated with green dye. The tumor (four pieces) and normal tissue are sampled for tissue banking.
Representative sections are submitted.

section

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

  

 

- BB- 31 tumor sampled from anterior to posterior, each pair of blocks a full thickness section bisected with the superior
aspect' In the first of each pair and the inferior aspect in the second of each pair

3.] mucosal plaques postero- superior to tumor

3K posterior margin, perpendicular section

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "soft tissue: Deep margin tongue QS". It consists of a fragment
of tissue measuring 1.1 x 10 x 0.9 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in lots for frozen section. The specimen
is subsequentiy submitted In tote for research.

'submitted' In toto for research

Quic Section Diagnosis

4A. Deep ton ue mar in: ne ative for mail nanc .

  

 

Page 3 of 3

 

 

