‘0;

III II IIIIII I III IIIIII II IIIIII I IIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII III III III

Diagnosis III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
A & B. RIGHT FROTAL LESION, RESECTION: III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITIIII
--ANAPLASTIC OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, WHO GRADE III,

WITH COMBINED EQUIVALENT 1p19q DELETION (SEE COMMENT)

NOTE: Tumor cells are predominantly small, with intermingled mini-gemistocytic type cells, with
round to oval bland nuclei and perinuclear halos. Although there is no microvascular
proliferation or necrosis, some areas show increased mitotic activity up to 6-7 mitoses per high-
power field, consistent with anaplastic oligodendroglioma. Tumor cells are strongly positive for
mm and only rare nuclei are positive for p53 (block B4). Overall Ki-67 labeling index is less
than 5%. However, there are a few nodules with proliferation index exceeding 30%.

This test was developed and its performance characteristics were determined by the

. It has not been cleared or approved by the Us. Food and Drug AdmInIstrarIon. Ine FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as
investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—
88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

The positive control demonstrate appropriate positive staining. The known tissue negative controls were negative. The non-
immune serum control was non-reactive.

Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) testing is performed for the following markers
on block B4 and the results are as follows: ICZDO 3

Ratio 1p to 1q: 0.59 éW/‘maw

4 3
Percent of cells with 1q to 1p ratio 2 2: 73% 9 all

5.11:5 MM AIDS
Ratio 19q to 19p: 0.57 @710

Percent of cells with 19p to 19q ratio 2 2: 73%

Reference range: %J 414/191

No deletlon: RatIo of test probe to reference probe > 0. 8

Deletion: Ratio of test probe to reference probe 5 0.8 and 2 15% of cells showing
referencetarget ratio 2 2

Polysomy: 2 30% of cells have 3 or more signals for 1 q or 19p

Relative deletion: Ratio of test to reference probe signals 5 0.5, where reference probe signals >
2

Q7Il

Comment: Chromosomal 1p, 19q deletion is combined equivalent.

Testing utilizes probes and reagents . This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by the , certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA '88) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. This test has not been cleared or
approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration; however, the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary. This test is used for clinical purposes and should not be regarded as investigational or for research.

(Electronically signed by)
Date Finaled:

I, the Attending Pathologist attest by my signature, that this case
has been personally reviewed and examined, microscopically and/or grossly
and the diagnosis(es) has been made or confirmed by me.

    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

Criteria
Diagnosis DISCFEDJIK'

V M:
Primary Tumor SIte Discrepcncy I
HIrAA c; I'rrepa ncy _—~7
PrI Inr Maling nancyl' Ist or v 5

Dual/Syn (iirnnous Primary
fascia 5m rcl 2):_
Revi Ieew rlri Im

  

 

 

Surgery Date:

Clinical Information

The patient is a year-old female with clinical diagnosis of right frontal tumor, undergoing
craniotomy for tumor.

Gross Description

A. The specimen is received fresh intraoperatively for consultation from ', labeled
with the patient's name and designated on the requisition as "brain tumor." The specimen
consists of a single fragment of red—tan, soft tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. Smear and
frozen preparations are made and the intraoperative diagnosis by ~ is "HIGH-GRADE
GLIOMA, FAVOR OLIGODENDROGLIOMA." The intraoperative consultation diagnosis is
communicated to the operating room at The frozen tissue is submitted in one cassette
and the remaining tissue is submitted in one cassette.

B. Received fresh, labeled with the patient's name and designated on the requisition as "brain
tumor." The specimen consists of multiple fragments of red-tan, soft tissue measuring 5 x 5 x 2
cm in aggregate. On cut section, the specimen has some bloody and yellow foci. The
specimen is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in 20 cassettes.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
A. "HIGH-GRADE GLIOMA, FAVOR OLIGODENDROGLIOMA."

