Clinical Diagnosis & History: WI”ﬁfacffggiﬂgbfglsﬂw-32543EB73a3e1dacted
”III" III

C'Wca'Wit“"9“““y'°'d"°d“'eFNAS’wW'WPQW’a” mym‘“°a”‘"°"‘a' Illl|l|lIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
seecimenssubmm . llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll '
1: SP: Right we lobe, lobectomy . Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 
 
   
   
 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS: ’ E'IZTJVJW'
1. SP: Right tyroid iobe, lobectomy: {21% . b (P
Tumor Type: *~"’y ' mm '
Paplllary carcinoma, classical type

  
    
 

Heviewer initial.

 

‘ Histologlc Grade: _
Well differentiated

Milotic Activity: l Cb .. 0 ’ 3

Not identiﬁed WWI Pkpl‘ll'ﬂ 'WL

Tumor Necrosis:

Not identiﬁed 99MB W, i
ll la la

Tumor Location: 3,1; : W4, N05 C 75 . 7.
Right lobe and isthmus

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 1.1 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
None Identiﬁed

Blood Vessel Invasion: , -
single focus of extrathyrold vascular invasion in small vessel

Extrathyroid Extension: A
lnvades:perithyroid ﬂbroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins:
Tumor ls close to anterior margin (< 1 mm)

Tumor Multicentn'cily.
Not identiﬁed

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):
Not Identiﬁed
No n—Neoplastic Thyroid:
f Exhibits mild hyperplastic change
Parathyrold Glands:
Not identified

 

Page 1 of2 ' _

Date of Procedure:

 

 

 

 

. Date of Receipt:
.._-_,____ ,. _, l' Date of Report:
' "‘ “‘ “ “" ww----»-3::Accountriﬁi'—"-~ '“wmw:WWIIZZ'ZZI'::Z:’::T§:€—E
' Billing Type: lNPATiENT

Additional Copy to:

 

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8: History:
Clinical with right thyroid nodule F NA showing papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Sgecimens Submitted:
1: SP: Right tyroid lobe, lobectomy

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Right tyroid lobe, iobectomy
Tumor Type: -
Papillary carcinoma, classical type

Histologic Grade: .
Well differentiated

Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Location:
Right lobe and Isthmus

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter Is 1.1 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
None identified

 

Blood Vessel invasion: -
single focus of extrathyroid vascular invasion In small vessel

Extrathyroid Extension: .
Invadeszperithyroid ﬁbroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins:
Tumor is close to anterior margin (< 1 mm)

Tumor Multlcentrlcity:
Not identiﬁed

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):

Not Identified
Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits mild hyperplastic change
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identiﬁed

 

Page‘lof2

 

(a

 

lATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

 

 

Gross Description:

1) The specimen ls received fresh and is labeled "right thyroid lobe, short stitch isthmus and long stitch superior”. It consists of a
thyroid lobe and isthmus with the lobe measuring 3.5 x 3.3 x 1.6 cm and the isthmus measuring 1.6 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen
weighs 9.5 grams with a short stitch on the isthmus and long stitch superior. The lobe ls Inked black posterior and blue anterior and
yellow on the Isthmus. The surface was intact with a thin, fibrous lining prior to the surgeon sectioning into the nodule at the
isthmus. There is a 1.1 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm tan well-circumscribed tan nodule in the infero—mediai aspect of the thyroid lobe adjacent to
the isthmus. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is beefy and unremarkable. Entirely submitted from superior to inferior and a
portion of the nodule is submitted to TPS. -

Summary of sections:
SS —- serial sections from superior to inferior
IS — most infero-medial- sections that include the isthmus -

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Right tyroid lobe, Iobectomy

Block Sect. Site P63
2 IS 2
8 SS 8

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

