UUID:757DF97F-DA22-4F8F-ADOF-C935C3291503
TcsA-x7-Aan-e1A-PR Redacted

“IINIHIIIIIIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllmllmlmll I67) 4} 5

III

III I lllllll lllllllllllll III I "II“

lll ll lllllllnll|||||lllllllllllllllllllliiﬂllllllllllllllll (ij 19/” AB N05 868&/'
Operative Procedure: 5411‘: ‘ - mum W1 C83. i
Sternotomy, mediastinal dissection. W ’

Pre-Operative Diagnosis: \jJLAW 057. c]

As below (“343 [94,81]“

Post—Operative Diagnosis:
As below

Specimen Received:
Mediastinal mass

Final Pathologic Diagnosis: '
Mediastinum. anterior, mass, resection:

Thymoma. WHO mixed type AB

THYMUS: Resection
Specimen: Thymus
Procedure: Thymectomy
Specimen Integrity: Intact
Specimen Weight: 220 grams
Tumor Size: 9 x 6.5 by up to 2.4 cm
Histologic Type: Type AB thymoma
Capsular invasion: Not identified
Tumor Extension: Not identified
Margins: Uninvolved by tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 0.3 cm
Treatment Effect: Not applicable
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified
Regional Lymph Nodes: No lymph nodes submitted or found
Modified Masaoka Stage Pathologic thymoma Staging:
Stage l: Grossly and microscopically encapsulated (including microscopic
invasion into but not through the capsule)
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): Not applicable (applied only for thymic
carcinomas)
Implants/Distant Metastasis: Not identiﬁed
Additional Pathologic Findings: None
Ancillary Studies: Synaptophysin and chromogranin are negative in the type A
component (staining with keratin AE1-AE3)

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in a formalin filled container labeled with the
patient‘s name, and additionally labeled "mediastinal mass“

and consists of a previously inked. previously incised portion of yellow-tan
tissue that is 220 grams and has overall dimensions of 15 x 11 by up to 5 cm.
The specimen is additionally sectioned to reveal a pink-tan, Iobulated, fairly
well delineated mass that has overall dimensions of 9 x 6.5 by up to 2.4 cm.
This mass abuts the inked external surface in multiple areas. The mass is
remarkable for a central area of degeneration that is 2 cm in greatest
dimension. The mass appears to be partially encapsulated. The remaining cut
surfaces are yellow-tan and lobulated.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
1-5 mass to include areas of inked external surface and degeneration;
6-7 uninvolved fibroadipose tissue.

Please note. a portion of the specimen has been collected by the tissue
bank.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
ﬁndings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: DOB: . Gender: M

3:7": MM

  
   
  

ucr raping
a “But

_.i_.._

