UUID: 13362EC6- 6511- 42FE- AABRB- “755538“ng
TCGA- A1- ADSK- BlA-P

   

ICA— a: a , .
6W WWW, ﬂow); c521 A7,“, 80/3/33
5th” W No’ Cid“; A] la/Jl/H

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identified in one
lymph node (0/1).

B. Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identiﬁed in two
lymph nodes (0/2).

C. Right breast, new inferior margin, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identified.

D. Sentinel lymph node #3, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma identified in one
'iymph node (0/1).

,3 E. Right breast, partial mastectomy:

 

 

. 1. Neuroendocrine carcinoma, iarqe cell type high grade, SBR grade 3, 3. 8 cm
diameter, extending to deep resection margin and O 1cm from anterior/superior
margin; see comment.

 

.- -—--

Page i ol’6

__ Surgical Pathology - Working Draft
2. Microcalcifications associated with benign breast tissue.

F. Right breast, new posterior margin, excision: Benign breast tissue, no carcinoma
identified. .

Note: Immunohistochemicai studies were necessary to evaluate this case and establish the correct
diagnosis. The following lmmunohistochemical stains were performed and evaluated:

Keratin cocktailzPatchy positive.

CD56: Positive.

PAX-S: Positive.

LCA: Negative.

Chromogranin: negative.

Synaptophysin: negative.

E-Cadherin: negative.

The negative staining with LCA rules against a lymphoid neoplasm. Negative E—Cadherin excludes a
ductal carcinoma. The positive staining with FAX-5, C056 and patchy cytokeratin staining as well as
the morphology onH& E stain are compatible with a neuroendocrine carcinoma. Negative staining with
chromogranin and synaptophysin, although expected in this entity, does not exclude it.

Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, high grade.
- Invasive tumor size: 3.8 cm maximum diameter.
- Invasive tumor grade (modiﬁed Bloom-Richardson): 3.
Nuclear grade: 3 points.
Mitotic count: 2 points.
Tubule/papiiia formation: 3 points.
Total points and overall grade = 8 points: Grade 3.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Absent.
— Resection margins for invasive tumor:
— Deep margin: Positive; (slide E12).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is >1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Close; (tumor is less than 0.1 cm away, on slide E7).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.25 cm away, on slide 515).

— Lymph node status:
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 0.
- Total number sampled: 4.

- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2NOMX.

An lmmunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as for HERZ was
performed on block E9.

The test for estrogen receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.

The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein over—expression.

An lmmunohistochemical assay was performed using the CB11 monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu
oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 0 on a scale of 0-3 (HER2 test interpreted

 

Pane 2 of 6

 

Surgical Pathology; WorkingDraft

 

by Dr.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas with
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

 

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoprotein. Tumors in
this category show an excellent correlation between the results of immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
F51 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr

F52 (B) Sentinel lymph node #2, right axilla, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.
F83 (C) Right breast, new inferior margin, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.

F84 (D) Sentinel lymph node #3, right axilla, biopsy: Rare atypical cells in subcapsular space. (Dr.

Clinical History
The patient is 3 year-old woman with post-operative diagnosis of breast cancer, who undergoes
sentinel lymph node biopsy and right partial mastectomy.

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in six parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A, additionally labeled " ‘ sists of one soft tan-yellow fatty
tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is trimmed, and one candidate lymph
node is found. The lymph node is bisected. Touch preps and smear preps are made. The node is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1 and subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining
yellow fatty tissue is submitted in cassette A2.

Part B, additionally labeled " nsists of one soft tan-yellow fatty
tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 0.6 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is trimmed, and one large lymph node is
found. The lymph node is bisected. Touch preps and smears are made. The node is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette Bl. The remaining yellow fatty
tissue is submitted in cassette 82.

Part C, additionally labeled " , ," consists of one
firm, unoriented, off-white/tan and yellow tissue fragment measuring 2.3 x 2 x 0.8 cm. The specimen
is bisected at the long axis and one—half is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 3, and subsequently
submitted in cassette C1. The remaining half is submitted in cassette C2.

Part D, additionally labeled nsists of one soft and firm pink-red
unoriented tissue fragment measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is bisected and touch preps
and smears are made. The bisected node is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 4, and
subsequently submitted in cassette DI.

Part E, additionally labeled onslsts of an oriented, roughly ovoid
fragment of fibrofatty breast tissue containing a firm palpable mass. The specimen is oriented with
two surgical sutures, per the requisition sheet. The short suture is superior and the long suture is
lateral. Oriented as such, the specimen measures 5.7 cm from superior to inferior, 6 cm from medial
to lateral, and 3.6 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation,
with the anterior superior surface inked in blue, the anterior inferior surface inked in green, and the
posterior surface inked in black. The specimen has been previously incised, prior to receipt in
Pathology, and the sections removed from the aforementioned central mass. The specimen is serially

 

PM» '1 nrﬁ

 

Surgical Pathology - . Worldiigraft

sectioned in the sagittal plane into fifteen slices and numbered 1-15, medial to lateral. The medial
slice (slice 1) is 0.9 cm in thickness. The lateral slice (slice 15) is 0.9 cm in thickness. The remainder
of the slices averages 0.4 cm in thickness. Serial sectioning reveals a firm, tan-white, nodular lesion,
which spans serial slices 2-14. This multilobulated mass measures 3.8 cm from superior to inferior, 3
cm from anterior to posterior, measured in slice 7. The mass grossly approaches the posterior margin
in slices 6-8. The mass is 0.2 cm from the anterior superior margin in slice 4 and 0.8 cm from the
anterior margin in slice 7. The medial and lateral margins are grossly clear (>1 cm). Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette E1: Medial margin, slice 1 (representative perpendicular section).
Cassette E2: Medial one-third, slice 2 (medial—most extent of lesion).
Cassette E3: Superior posterior, slice 4.

Cassette E4: Superior anterior, slice 4.

Cassette E5: Anterior superior, slice 5.

Cassette E6: Superior posterior, slice 5.

Cassette E7: Anterior superior, slice 7.

Cassette E8: Superior posterior, slice 7.

Cassette E9: Anterior inferior, slice 7.

Cassette E10: Inferior posterior, slice 7.

Cassette E11: Anterior superior, slice 8.

Cassette E12: Superior posterior, slice 8.

Cassette E13: Anterior superior, slice 11.

Cassette E14: Superior posterior, slice 11.

Cassette E15: Anterior inferior, slice 11.

Cassette i516: Inferior posterior, slice 11.

Cassette E17: Superior half, slice 14.

Cassette E18: Inferior half, slice 14.

Cassettes E19-E20: Medial portion of lateral margin, slice 15 (perpendicularly sectioned).

Part F, additionally labeled _ - Consists
of a grossly unremarkable fragment of fibrofatty breast tissue sutured to Telra and oriented by two
surgical sutures, per the specimen container labels. The short stitch is superior and the long stitch is
lateral. Oriented as such, the specimen measures 4.5 cm from superior to inferior, 3.7 cm from
medial to lateral, and 1.6 cm from anterior to posterior. The specimen is inked for microscopic
evaluation, with the anterior superior surface inked in blue, the anterior inferior surface inked in
green, and the posterior surface inked in black. The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to
lateral into ten slices. These are numbered 1~10, from medial to lateral. The specimen is grossly
unremarkable on serially sectioning. The entire specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassette F1: Slice 1.

Cassette F2: Slice 2.

Cassette F3: Slice 3.

Cassette F4: Slice 4.

Cassette F5: Slice 5.

Cassette F6: Slice 6.

Cassette F7: Slice 7.

Cassette F8: Slice 8.

Cassette F9: Slice 9.

Cassette F10: Slice 10.

IPathology Resident ’Pathologist
Signed: '

Fee Codes:

 

Pace 4 off:

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology - Working Draft

 

Other Specimens

_Speclmen Class: Status: Signed Oul Accessioncd:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Right chest wall tumor (fresh), B: Subclavian vein margin
Final Diagnosis
A. Right chest wall, tumor, excision: Metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine
carcinoma, 7.5 cm; see comment.

B. Subclavian vein, margin, biopsy: Segment of vein with chronic inflammation, no
tumor; see comment.

 

pccimen Class: Status: Signed Oul Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimcn(s) Received:
Final Diagnosis
Review of slides from

Right breast, upper outer quadrant, biopsy: Neuroendocrine carcinoma,
large-cell type, high-grade; see comment.

Right anterior chest wall, fine-needle aspiration: Consistent with metastatic
neuroendocrine carcinoma; see comment.

 

 

_Speclmen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Surgical scar right breast, B: New anterior superior margin right breast, C: New deep margin, D: New
anterior inferior margin

Final Diagnosis
A. Skin, right breast surgical scar, excision: Scar with mild chronic inflammation and
foreign body giant cell reaction, no tumor.

B. Right breast, new anterior superior margin, excision: Scar with chronic
inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.

C. Right breast, new deep margin, excision:
1. Scar with chronic inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.
2. Microcalcifications associated with benign ducts.

D. Right breast, new anterior inferior margin, excision:
1. Scar with chronic inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fat necrosis, no tumor.
2 Microcalcifications associated with benign ducts.

 

Dunn S nr‘

Surgical Pathology - _ Working Draft

 

 

 

PNU 0F RFPORT Paile60f6

