Anatomical Pathology

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Case Number: Patient's
Name:
Collect Date: ' ' MRN:
Receive Date: PHN: ”um iz‘é‘ﬁﬁ ’is‘imﬁ“: Eccmmﬁ‘e7d
Date Reported: ‘ DOB/Gender: IlllllllIlllll|llllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllelldlllllllenl
Ordering llllll HlllllllllllllllllllllllllllHill lllllllllllllllllllllll

Physician: IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllHllll

Final Diagnosis:
A. Left pelvic lymph nodes: Nine negative lymph nodes.

B. Uterus (with cervix), tubes and ovaries:

1. High-grade serous carcinoma of endometrium.

2. Deep myometrial invasion to within 3 mm of the serosa.

3. Lymphatic and venous invasion identiﬁed.

4. implant of high-grade serous carcinoma on serosa of left ovary.

5. Detached fragments of serous carcinoma in lumen of right fallopian
tube.

6. Myometrial leiomyomas.

7. Noncarcinomatous endometrium: atrophic.

8. Cervix, right ovary, and left fallopian tube negative for tumour.

C. Right pelvic lymph nodes: Approximately 10 negative lymph nodes.

D. Peritoneal washings: Positive for high-grade serous carcinoma.

Electronically signed by _ l COO/‘7’
Carcinoma, Summit)”
Clinical History as Provided by Submitting Physician: (Chit l 3
Corresponding cytology Sikl
{Mo 0113M W
C644 4/25”?—

Specimens Received:
A: left pelvic lymph node m l m, j

Criteria
in H mm -
. ie :srre an: 5
' n
or r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B: uterus,ovaries,tubes& cervix

C: right pelvic lymph node

Gross Description:

Received are three containers, each labelled with the patient's name, and
demographics.

ContainerA is labelled LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES and consists of multiple fatty
tissue fragments aggregating to 3 cm in maximum dimension. Nine lymph nodes are
identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 to 2.2 cm in maximum dimension. The specimen is submitted
as follows:

A1 -single sectioned lymph node
A2 -two lymph nodes, bisected
A3 -two lymph nodes, bisected
A4 -two lymph nodes

A5 -two lymph nodes

A6 -the remaining tissue

Container B is labelled UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES, OVARlES AND CERVIX and
consists of a total hysterectomy specimen weighing 175 g. The uterine corpus
measures 5.5 x 6.5 x 5.5 cm, and the cervix measures 2.8 x 2.5 cm. The right fallopian
tube measures 5 x 0.3 cm diameter and the right ovary measures 2.7 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm.
The left fallopian tube measures 6 x 0.3 cm diameter and the left ovary measures 2.3 x
1 x 0.7 cm. The serosal surface is smooth and the uterine corpus is globular and shows
multiple subserosal and intramural leiomyomas. The leiomyomas range from 0.1 to 3.2
cm diameter. The uterine cavity is occupied by a fungating, soft, friable tumour that
arises from the fundus and extends through the anterior and posterior uterine wall. The
tumour is 1.2 cm from the anterior lower uterine segment and is 1.5 cm from the
posterior lower uterine segment. The cervical mucosa is grossly unremarkable. The
tumour invades into the outer half of the myometrium and is approximately 0.3 cm from
the serosal surface. Both fallopian tubes and ovaries are grossly unremarkable.
Sections are submitted as follows:

B1 -anterior cervix

BZ -posterior cervix

BB -anterior lower uterine segment

B4 -posterior lower uterine segment

B5-B7 -representative section from the anterior uterine wall
B8—B14 -representative section from the posterior uterine wall
B15 —cul-de-sac

B16—B18 -right fallopian tube, submitted in toto

B19 -right ovary

820—822 -left fallopian tube, submitted in toto

B23 ~representative section from the left ovary

Container C is labelled RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE and consists of multiple fatty

tissue fragments aggregating to 4 cm in maximum dimension. Six lymph nodes are
identiﬁed ranging from 0.3 to 2.3 cm in maximum dimension. Sections are submitted as
follows:

C1 -a single bisected lymph node

C2 -two lymph nodes, one is inked with black ink and bisected
C3,C4 -a single sectioned lymph node

C5 —two lymph nodes, one is inked with black ink

C6,C7 -the remaining fatty tissue

Copies to:

