UUID: 5316AMB- CF13- M33— --AE9D -1153833R906E2ac
TCGA- TQ -A7RV- -01A- PR

illl'lllll":'lllllll'ililllllll'll'll'l'll'l'l”"" L w, mo .3

(zng Wee/.3

Nt f t'I‘B' Q6853
a ureo ma erla. rain “PW [L1 1

d7Lo

Received on. Wm:

Macroscopy: Q4 J r (3/4115

b07/9

Received in formalin, 4 irregular fragments of brain parenchyma measuring
3.9 x 2.6 x 2.1 cm. The surface shows aspects of white, hard and congested
tissue. To cuts, it is note softened and whitish tissue area. Note: Material fully
included for histological analysis.

Microscopy:

Histological sections stained with h & a show fragments neoplasia glial
moderately mobile, incorporated in cells rounded mostly with discreet
pleomorphism contained isolated on fund fibrillar. Diagnosis:

Surgical resection product of brain lesion:

- Astrocytoma (grade II, according to the classiﬁcation of OMS, 2007).

PROFESSIONAL PARTICIPANTS OF REPORT

PM, T55 dx diam“, {My
31%» feet? «ma—u

WW” , I“

a 13 13'-

 

 

l

l

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05 i3]

 

study Subject :6? " W“""“W"BL.};35 is?” Niki

Study] Site: TCGA Brain lower grade glioma « (Brain Lower Grade Glioma) Age: N/A !

Event: PathDiscrepancy Date of Birth:

Interviewer: Sex: M 3
Tumor Identiﬁer Provided on Initial Case Quality Control - Provide the tumor identiﬁer documented on the initial case quality control form for
Form this case.

Pathologic Diagnosis Provided on Astrocytoma Provide the diagnosis] histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial pathology report for this case.
Initial Pathology Report grade II If the histology for this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.

Histologlc features of the sample provided for TCGA, Oligoastrocytoma Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control
as reﬂected on the CQCF grade II Form completed for this case.

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

Provide the reason for the wrotte in TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the
discrepancy between the Discrepancy Form: "This case was iniatially pathologist. initial pathology report for this case is not consistent
pathology report and the TCGA When I reviewed the case, in my opinion, there is an with the diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality
Case Quality Control Form oligodendroglial component". Control Form.

Name of TS Reviewing Pathologist or Bioreposltory Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case for

Director TCGA.

 

 

 

