UUID: 33806390 29C2- 4FF1- 98F6- 201C769Rlle539ac
TCGA- EM- A3FQ -OSA- PR
Illlllcllm1|

l|||||||||||||||||ll|||||||||llllllllllllllllllll|
||||I||||| ||llll|ll||||||||||H|| |l|l|||l||
|||l||l|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllll

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

 

   

Patient Name: Accession it:
MRN: Service: Collectelt
DOB: Visit #1 Received:
Gender: Location: Reported:
0 Facility.
rderlng MD: - ‘
[06-0 3 ,
T : \ t
copy o chw‘ PopwllMﬁl—i WA 3300/;

 

SgecimentglReceivgg 5th: +h4fm‘i11 Ma; 6 7.5. .9 («In/um

1. Melt: RIGHT UPPER POSTERIOR TRIANGLE

2. Note RIGHT LOWER POSTERlOR TRIANGLE

3. Neil: RIGHT JUGULAR CHAIN OF NODES - STITCH MARKS APEX
4. pro-tracheal node

aMMmmmaMdmm

6. total thyroid + lelt paratracheal nodes stitch marks upper pole left lobe

  

 

= m

 

Diagnosis
.%1 Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma; Lymph nodes. 2 of 10 (right posterior triangle) dissection specimen

2. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma With focal extranodal extension: Lymph nodes. 4 of 8 (right lower posterior
triangle) dissection specimen

3. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 3 of 14 (right jugular chain) dissection specimen

4. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 1
No pathological diagnosis: Thyroid
' ~ (Protracheal) excisional biopsy

5. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma with fowl extranodal extension: Lymph nodes. 12 of 12 (right paratracheal)
dissection specimen

6. Multifomi papillary carcinoma, dominant widely invasive classical variant with cribn'fonn and morular growth. 4.8 cm,
right lobe; chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and remnants of thyroglossal duct with mucous glands: Thyroid
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes. 3 of 3. lsthmic
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph nodes, 16 of 18, left inferior
~Total thyroidectomy specimen with left (paratracheal) dissection. See Comment.

Comment

The specimen reveals a widely invasive classical variant papillary carcinoma that exhibits areas cribrifcrm and morular

growth and extensive intrathyroidal dissemination. There is lymphatic invasion, but no evidence of angioinvasion is seen.

There is also a 0.9 cm follicular variant papillary microcarcinoma that exhibits focal capsular invasion. Although the

dominant tumor is described grossly as a 1.6 cm nodule. the extent of malignancy throughout the right lobe warrants

classiﬁcation of the entire lobe as papillary carcinoma. There is no deﬁnitive surgical margin involvement by tumor;
owever the tumor comes within less than 0.1 mm of the painted resection margin in numerous locations. There is no
gvidence of exhathyroidal extension.

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

it is of note that the patient has a family history of colon cancer. Moreover, the dominant tumor exhibits areas of cribriform

and morular growth. This architecture is characteristic of lesions that have been reported in association with the Familial
Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP) syndrome. Although this is not diagnostic of this entity, further clinical evaluation is

 

recommended.
II Da
Clinical History: Other. family history of colon cancer ‘
Procedure: OthenTotal' thyroidectomy with right neck and left paratracheal dissection
Received: Fresh
Specimen Integrity: intact
Specimen Size: Right lobe:
4.8 cm
3.1 cm
1.6 cm
Left lobe:
3.9 cm
2.0 cm
1.1 cm
Isthmus +I- pyramidal lobe:
3.4 cm
1.8 cm
0.9 cm
Additional specimen: leﬂ paratracheal dissection
2.8 cm
2.5 cm
0.7 cm
Specimen Weight: 19.3 9
”Tumor Focality: Multitocal. ipsilateral
----------- >----DOMINANTTUMOR—---------e-—
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.8cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma. classical (usual)
Papillary carcinoma, cribriform—morular variant
Classical (papillary) architecture
Cribriform-morular architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: ‘ Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.1 mm
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated
Tumor Capsular invasion: Present. extent widely invasive
Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Perlneural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension:

Not identiﬁed

--------------- SECONDTUMOR———---------——

Tumor Lateraﬁty: Right lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 0. 9cm
Additional dimensions: 0.9 cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant
Papillary carcinoma. microcarcinoma (occult. small or microscopic) variant
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade; Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsirle: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion:
Lymph-Vascular Invasion:

Present, extent minimal
Not identified

 

Page20f4

 

‘ ~ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ~

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: m (multiple primary tumors) .

Primary Tumor (pT): pT3: Tumor more than 4 cm, limited to thyroid or with minimal extrathyroidal extension
(eg, extension to stemothyroid muscle or perithyroid soft tissues)

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNi b: Metastases to unilateral. bilateral or contralateral cervial or superior

medastinal lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 66
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 41
Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Present
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Thyroidltis
Other. extensive intrathyroldal and lntralymphatlc spread

*Pathologio Staging is based on AJCCIUlCC TNM.

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

9.1mm

(This information is obtained from the electronic patient record).

W .
1. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Neck: Right upper posterior triangle" consists of a piece of

libroadipose tissue that measures 5.8 x 2.2‘x 1.0 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.3 cm to 1.5 cm.
Representative sections are submitted.

1A one lymph node bisected

13 multiple lymph nodes

10 one lymph node bisected

10 one lymph node bisected

 

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Neck: Right lower posterior triangle" consists of a piece of
ﬁbroadipose tissue that measures 4.8 x 2.7 x 1.8 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.3 to 2.8 cm.
Representative sections are submitted. .

2A one lymph node bisected

28 one lymph node bisected

ZC-E one lymph node trisected

2F multiple lymph nodes

3. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "Neck: Right jugular chain lymph nodes- stitch marks apex”
consists of a piece of ﬁbroadipose tissue that measures 10.0 x 3.3 x 1.5 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range
from 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm to 3.5 x 2.6 x 1.4 cm Two pieces of largest nodule/1 piece smaller nodule and one piece normal
fat stored frozen. The lymph nodes are submitted in toto from apex to base as follows.

3A one lymph node bisected

38 one lymph node bisected

SC two lymph nodes

SD—F one lymph node serially sectioned

3G one lymph node serially sectioned

3H multiple lymph nodes

4. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "pretracheal node" consists of two pieces of grey-brown tissue
that measure 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm and 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm.
A submitted in toto

 
 

 

s Pageaoﬂ

p

. _ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report a

. t 1)
if

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “right paratracheal node" consists of a piece of ﬁbroadlpose
tissue that measures 5.0 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.3 cm to 2.7 cm.
Representative sechons are submitted.

5A multiple lymph nodes

58 one lymph node bisected

5C-D one lymph node bisected

5E one lymph node bisected

6. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as "total thyroid + left paratracheal nodes stitch marks upper pole left
lobe" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a stitch and weighs 19.3 g. The right lobe measures 4.8 cm SI x 3.1
cm ML x 1.6 cm AP, the left lobe measures 3.9 cm Sl x 2.0 cm ML x 1.1 cm AP and the isthmus measures 3.4 cm Sl x 1.8
cm ML x 0.9 cm AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions and are painted with silver nitrate. No parathyroid
glands are identiﬁed grossly. Multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the soft tissue attached on the inferior aspect of the
thyroid measuring 2.5 cm SI x 2.8 cm ML x 0.7 cm AP. The lymph nodes measure from 0.3 cm to 0.8 cm. The mid and
lower right lobe contains two well delineated nodules measuring 1.6 cm SI x 1.2 cm ML x 1.2 cm AP and 0.9 cm Si x 0.9
cm ML x 0.9 cm AP. respectively. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of right lobe nodules and
normal tissue are stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

BA-F right lobe. superior to inferior .

6G—l isthmus

6J-N left lobe, superior to inferior

60 multiple lymph nodes

6P soft tissue attached to the inferior aspect of the thyroid submitted in toto-

 

 

 

i W

