 

 

 

 

, .X ”3 7 Page 1 of 7

*' 3

- UUID:CCDBA153-DE92-473C-AA18-8EE250E408A2
TcaA-23-1azs-a1A-PR Redacte
I! 'II III

! MlllHMHllllmlﬂlflllllllHllﬂlflllllMHllllllllHll

mama Illl IHIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIllllllllllllllllll ”II I I III
swim: pm a: IlllllllllllilllllIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIHIHIHIIIIIIHHlllﬂllllll
Hospital A/s:
Data Rec:

Col:
Location
Patholog;
Assistant:
Attending MD:
Ordering MD:
Copies To:

DIAGNOSIS: *‘ADDEIDUH AND CORRECTIONS. 7 '

 

 

Due to a computer glitch, an incomplete preliminary report was
inadvertently finalled before the diagnoses for specimens 16-20 were
transcribed. The diagnoses for specimens 16-20 have now been
entered. These additional diagnoses and corrections of typographical
errors in the preliminary diagnosis (for specimens 1-15) and in the
gross descriptions are indicated in bold type. There are no
significant changes in the diagnoses (previously issued) for
specimens 1-15.

1.. 0mm. 0mm:
- notastatic mullerien-derived carcinoma (see cement)

2. PALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORBCTOHY:
- Primary ovarian adenocarcinona. mixed epithelial types.

grade III (see cosment)

- Ovary measures 9.5 cm in maximum dimension and is
nearly totally replaced by carcinoma

- Carcinoma also involves paraovarian and parath
adnexal ligaments

- Fallopian tube is involved by carcinoma; tumor in the
fallopian tube involves the serous. subserosa.
muscular wall. and mucosa

- Lymphovascular invasion by carcinoma is present

3. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY. RIGHT, SALPImo-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Primary ovarian adenocarcinona. nixed epithelial types.

grade III (see cement)

- Ovary measured about 7.2 cm in maximum dimension and
is subtotally replaced by carcinoma

— Carcinoma also involves the serosal surface of the
ovary. paraovarian and paratubal ligamentous soft
tissues

- Fallopian tube is positive for carcinoma.- carcinoma
involves the serosal surface and subserosa of the
fallopian tube and also involves the mucosa of the

(continued on next page”:

fallopian tube
- Lymphovascular invasion by carcinoma is present
Ovary also shows a hemorrhagic follicular-derived cyst
- Fallopian tube also shows acute and chronic ealpingitis
with features suggestive of so-called lollicular salpingitis
in some areas

4. PERI-INTESTINAL IIBROADIPOSB TISSUE. RECTOSIGICID. EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

x

 

10.

11.

12.

13.

14 .
(Continued

15.

16.

1'7.

Page 2 of 7

9 3»

UTERUS. TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTBREC'IOMY:

- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma involving external
aspecc of endocervix, outer muscular wall of endocervix,
anterior peritoneal soft tissue reflection, external
aspect/serosal surface of anterior and posterior lower
uterine segments, outer aspect of muscular wall of anterior
lower uterine segment, serosa and subserosa of anterior
uterine corpus
- Lysohovascular invasion by carcinoma is present
- No evidence of carcinoma at surgical margins

- Endometrium with proliferative features

- Focal so—called superficial adenomyosis

- Cervix with chronic and minimal acute inflammation,
reserve cell hyperplasia. squamous metaplasia. and
nabothian cysts

— Vaginal cuff mucosa with minimal chronic inflammation

MERRY O! SIGMOID COLON, BIOPSY:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

RECTUN. 'RICTAL TIMR', EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see constant)
- No large intestinal tissue identified

SOFT TISSUE. RIGHT PELVIS. 'TUMOR'. EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see cement)

SOP? TISSUE. COL DE SAC PERITONBUH. HCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see cement)

SOP? TISSUE, RIGHT SIDMLL. 'TUMJR'. EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see cement)

LYMPH NOD38. LEFT PELVIC. DECISION:

- 'rwo lymph nodes with reactive lymphoid (follicular and
parafollicular) hyperplasia and sinus histiocytosis

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)

SOFT TISSUE. PERITONSUM. BIOPSY:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see consent)

LYNN! moss. RIGHT OBTURATOR, EXCISION:

- One of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic mullerian-
derived carcinoma (1/2) (see cement)

- W nodes also show reactive lymphoid (follicular and
parafollicular) hyperplasia and sinus histiocytosis

muons APPENDIX. ”Putnam:
on next page“:

-— Acute and chronic intimation of serosa and subserosa of
appendix and partial fibrous obliteration of lumen of
appendix (at the tip)

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

5mm. IN'I'BSTINE. 'TUMOR'. EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullsrian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT DIAPHRAGM, woman EXCISION:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

LIVER. 'SU'BPACE', BIOPSY:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma involving fibrous
tissue/liver capsule (see comment)

Page 3 of7

- Tiny fragment of subcapsular liver parenchyma showing
marked thermal/cautery artifacts

 

18. SOFT TISSUE. FALCIFORM LIGAMENT. BIOPSY:
- Perivascular margination of leukocytes in suhnesothelial
tissue
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

19. SOFT TISSUE. RIGHT minim, BIOPSY:
- Metastatic mullerian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

' 20. SOFT TISSUE. LEFT PBRITONEUM, 'TUMOR', EXCISION:
- Metastatic mllerian-derived carcinoma (see comment)

COMMENT: Both ovaries are enlarged and subtotally replaced by
carcincma. By convention, the neoplasm is considered to be a
bilateral primary ovarian neoplasm; however. the involvement of the
mucosa of both fallopian tubes by carcinoma (in addition to the outer
aspects of the fallopian tubes which are involved tumor). the
possibility of synchronous primary tubal neoplasms are also
considered. The carcinoma consists of multiple components. including
serous carcinoma, carcinoma with transitional or pseudotransitional
features, endomstrioid carcinoma. anaplastic carcinoma. and a small
subpopulation of tumor cells exhibiting cytoplasmic clearing. Tumor-
associated necrosis is present in both ovaries. as well as in
multiple other metastatic sites. Secondary acute and chronic
inflamatory changes are present in both ovaries and many of the
metastatic sites. Lymphovascular invasion by carcinoma is present in
most of the involved sites. Adhesions and secondary reactive
mesothelial change are noted in many of the involved sites. The

 

 

 

 

preliminary pathologic findings were couammicated to on

— V ‘ — il-— 3!! 3:38:
HISTORY: Pelvic mass: ovarian cancer
MICROSCOPIC:

See Diagnosis .

GROSS:

1: cum-ma

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'omentum'. and received
(continued on next pagem

fresh in the on for frozen section diagnosis, subsequently fixed in
formalin is a 230 gram piece of omentum that measures 30.0 x 11.0 x
2.0 cm. Approximately 460 cf the omentum is replaced by multifocal
infiltrating process. The largest mass measures 13.0 x 5.5 x 2.0 cm.
A sample of this mass is frozen for frozen section diagnosis. The
smallest lesion is 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm.

Representative sections.

A. Frozen section control — l

3. Sections of largest and smallest tumor - 2

2: LEFT mm
Labeled with the patient‘s name, designated 'left «Mean and
received in formalin is a 150 gram specimen consisting of ovary and
fallopian tube. The ovary measures 9.5 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm and is
entirely replaced by a solid cystic mass (approximately 50!: solid).
The cysts range from 0.5 to 2.5 cm and contain serosanguineous fluid.
, 3 The solid areas have papillary structures and some of the papillae
protrudefrom the capsular surface of the ovary. No normal ovary is
identified. The fallopian tube measures 10.0 cm in length and 0.5 to
1.5 cm in diameter. The fimbriated end is not visible. The distal
two-thirds of the fallopian tube are replaced by tumor.
Representative sections.

. , Page 4 of7

C.D. Cystic portions of ovarian tumor - 1 each

E. Ovary with tumor including external papillary tumor - multiple
’3 P. Paraovarian tumor - 1
6—K. Ovary and tumor - 1 each
I. Fallopian tube with tumor - 1

Addtional representative sections (submitted on

go. Pa110pian tube with tumor - 1

RR. Fallopian tube with tumor - 1

3: RIGHT ADNEXA

Labeled with the patient's name. designated "right adnexa', and
received in formalin is a 53 gram specimen consisting of ovary and
fallopian tube. The ovary measures 7.2 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm and is
completely replaced by a solid and cystic tumor that is
approximately 300 cystic and 70‘ solid. The cyst contains serous
fluid. The fallopian tube measures 6.0 cm in length and 0.5 to 1.7
cm. The distal two-thirds are occupied by tumor. The solid areas
of the tumor have papillary appearance and there are papillae that
are located on the serosal surface of the fallopian tube and the
external side of the ovarian capsule. No ovarian strata is
identified. but there is one small corpus luteum next to the capsule
(cassette K) . One of the cysts has purulent material and measures
3.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm.

Representative sections.

a. 'Purulent' ovarian cyst - 1

x. Fallopian tube with tumor and adherent ovary with tumor - 1

L. Ovarian and paraovarian tumor - 1

M. Fallopian tube with tumor - 3

Additional representative sections (submitted on . _ :
SS. Fallopian tube with tumor and paratubal cyst - 2
ss. Fallopian tube with tumor - 1
4: WIGQOID
(continued on next pageHJ

 

)

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'rectosigmoid'. and
received in formalin is a 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.9 cm piece of adipose tissue
partially replaced approximately 30% with white tumor that measures
1.4 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm.

Representative section.

N. l.

5: UTZRUS
Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'uterus'. and received in
formalin is a 120 gram total hysterectomy specimen. The uterus is
symmetric. The uterus measures 9.5 cm from fundus to ectocervix. 5.2
cm from cornu and cornu and 4.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The
uterine serosa is smooth in the superior one-third of the specimen.
The remainder is replaced with tumor. mainly in the anterior aspect.
The cervix is about 3.2 cm long and has a maximum diameter of 3.4 cm
in the ectocervical region. Attached to the ectocervix there is an
up to 1.0 cm long cuff of normal vaginal mucosa. The mucosa lining
the ectocervix is pale pink and smooth. The external cervical as is
1.1 cm in diameter and slitvlike. The uterus is incised on both
sides. The cervical transformation zone is patent. The endocervical
canal is 2.5 cm long and lined by slightly bumpy mucosa. Cut
sections of the cervix reveal no significant findings. The
endometrial cavity is 4.5 cm long and up to 2.5 cm in width. The
3 endometrium is unremarkable. The endometrial lining is pink.
slightly hemorrhagic and measures 0.1 to 0.2 cm in thickness. The
muscular uterine wall has a maximum thickness of 2.8 cm. The
mometrium is unruarkable.
Representative sections.
0.9. Posterior cervix. one section bisected - 1 each

Page 5 of 7

0. Lower uterine segment — 1

11-5. Posterior uterine wall, bisected - 1 each
T-U. Anterior cervix. bisected - 1 each

V. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1

w. Anterior uterine corpus . 1

 

 

6: SIGKOID manure TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'sigmoid mesenteric
tumor‘. and received in formalin are four pieces of tan-white soft
tissue that range from 0.4 to 1.4 an in length.

Entire asbedded.

x. 4

7: REC‘I‘AL TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'rectal tumor'. and
received in fomalin are two pieces of tan-brown soft tissue that
measure 0.‘ and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Entirely embedded.

Y. 2

8: RIGHT PELVIC ms

Labeled with the Patient's name, designated 'right pelvic tumor', and
received in formalin are two pieces of tan—brown soft tissue that
measure 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm and 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm.

Representative sections.

20 2

9: COL DB SAC PERITONEUM
Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'cul-de-sac peritoneum'.
(continued on next page)E|

 

and received in formalin is a 3.8 x 2.7 x 0.5 cm piece of tan-brown
soft tissue that is almost completely replaced by tumor.
Representative sections.

A2. 2

10: RIGHT SIDE mu. T0103.

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'right side wall tumor',
and received in formalin is a 1.4 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm piece of white-tan
soft tissue. Bisected and entirely embedded.

32. 2

11: LBI'I‘ PEINIC LYHPH NOD!

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'left pelvic lymph node'.
and received in formalin is a 2.0 x 1.7 x 0.7 cm piece of
fibroadipose tissue containing two lymph nodes that measure 1.7 and
1.6 cm. The lymph nodes are bisected and entirely embedded.

c2. One lymph node bisected - 2

D2. One lymph node bisected — 2

12: PERI'I‘ONEUH BIOPSY
Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'peritoneal biopsy'. and
received in formalin is a 3.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm piece of brown tissue.

It is serially sectioned and entirely embedded.
32. 4

13: RIGHT OB'I'URA’I‘OR LYMPH NOD!
Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'obturator lymph node'.
and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of
.4; fibroadipose tissue containing two lymph nodes that measure 1.5 and
3 2.1 cm in largest dimensions. The largest node is grossly
metastatic. Only one section of it is embedded. The other node is
entirely embedded.
F2. One lymph node. bisected and entirely embedded - 2
62. Grossly metastatic lymph node one section - 1

Page 6 of?

‘ o . ' - "1’
. _ .

14: APPENDIX
Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'appendix', and received
‘3 in formalin is a 2.8 cm long appendix that measures 0.5 to 0.8 cm in
diameter. There is a portion of adipose tissue attached to the
appendix that measures 2.8 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. No tumor is identified
grossly in the specimen. The appendix is entirely embedded.
Hz. 3
12. 4

 

15: SMALL BOWBL m3 .

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'small bowel tumor', and
received in formalin are three pieces of tan-white soft tissue that
measure 0.2, 0.5 and 0.7 cm in largest dimension.

Entirely embedded.

0'2. 3

16: RIGHT DWMTIC m3.

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'right diaphragmatic
tumor', and received in formalin are three pieces of tan-yellow pink
soft tissue that range from 0.5 to 2.0 on in largest dimension.
Representative sections.

K2. 5

(continued on next page“:

17: LIVER SURFACE

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'liver surface'. and
received in formalin are two pieces of tan-brown soft tissue that
measure 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm and 1.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm.

Entirely embedded.

L2. 2

 

18: FALCIFORH monum-

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'falciform ligament', and
received in formalin is a 6.0 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm piece of adipose tissue.
No tumor is evident grossly.

Representative sections.

142-212. 2 each

19: RIGHT mom

Labeled with the patient's name. designated 'right henidiaphragm',
and received in formalin are two portions of a fibrous mmbrane that
measure 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.7 an and 5.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. Snell white
nodules that measure up to 0.3 cm in largest dimensions are present
in the specimen.

Representative sections.

02. 4

20: LEFT PERITONBAL Tums

Labeled with the patient's name, designated 'left peritoneal tumor'.
and received in formalin is a 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm piece of soft tan-
brown tissue with a white modularity similar to the other tumors.
The largest nodule measures 0.4 on in diameter.

Entirely embedded.

P2. 3

Gross dictated by ’

 

 

 

 

OPERATIVB CALL

OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

1. ONBNTUM:
— High grade adenocarcinoma
- Tumor taken for research

OPERATIVB CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (GﬁDSS):
2,3. BILATERAL ADNEXA:
~ Tumor taken for research

4. UTERUS:
(continued on next pagem

- Serosal tumor
~ Smooth endometrium with no gross tumor
' )
ﬁnial Studies: Frozen Section
See Also:

Pathologist

I . the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the
results, reviewed this report and signed it electronically.

Date Pinalled:
I, . ’ . the pathologist of record, have
personally examined the specimen, interpreted the

results, reviewed this amended report and signed it
electronically .

Date Pinalled:

Page 7 of 7

