UUID:83E9C775-EE1D-4763-Al48-BBS77FC01FAB

TCGA-zv-Asna- e1A- PR Redacted
lwmwmmm
III Illm
Final Diagnosis

HMMMWWHHWMMMIM‘
A. UVER, PORTION OF SEGMENT 2 AND 3, PARTiAL HEPATECTOMY:

Hill

MHHWHHWHMHIW m
HII IHIWNMHI

Hepatoceuular carcinoma, well-differentiated,

Ml"
Pathology Regort
See Key Pathological Findings.

 

 

 

 

the attending pathologist, personally reviewed all
glides and. f or materials and rendered the ﬁnal diagnosis. Electronically
Slgned Out by

Ancillary Studies
Immunohislochemisw stain for CD31, performed with adequate controls on block A5, highlight the
vascular invasion.

Special stains for rellcuﬁn and lrichrome were performed with adequaie controls on block A3 and A11
and were reviewed.

Special stains for Iron, PAS. and PAS—D were performed with adequate controls on block A11 and
were reviewed.

125D «o 3
Key Pathological Findings @W%> J
Specimen: Liver
Pmdure: Partial hepalectomy' H as 3 I 7 b I ‘3
Tumor size: 5.9 X 5.2 x 2.2 cm , -, . W
Tumor focaliiy Solitary 6 (Ah! - ‘ a ‘QQL D
Histologic type: Hepalocellular oarc‘m oma _
Histologic grade: w eimmemntiaied {on Q4 5 Lil/o? ‘3’ l/ "/
Tumor extension: Tumor Is within 1 mm of visceral peritoneum
Parencnymal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

{tumor is at 583518 mm away from the parenchymal margin)
Vascular invasion

(macroscopic): Noi identiﬁed
Vascular invasion

(microscopic): Present
Penneural invasion: Not identified

Palimiogical stage; 9T2 pNx pMX

Additional pathologic ﬁnding:
Non-neopiastic liver show macrovesicular stealosis with zonal distribution {Zone 3} and
no ﬁbrosis (satge 9—1}.
There is no Increase in siainable iron.

Speciments) Received
A PORTEON OFSEGiEANDIII F5

Clinical History

UVER CANCER

Frozen Section Diagnosis
FSAi: Malignant neoplasm. favor hepatocellular carcinoma-

Intradepamnental Consultation; The case was also reviewed by , who concurs-
wilh the above interpretation.

FSAZ: Margins (perpendicular), no evidence of malignancy.

Comment: This frozen section diagnosislresull was communicated to and acknowledged by
in at

I, have performed the irﬁraoperative consultations and issued the above
diagnosis.

Gross Description

A. The specin an is received fresh for lrozen section, labeled “portion of segment 2 and 3“ and
consists of 89 grams, 3.? x 5.5 it 3.1 cm wedge of liver with a moderate amount of attached fat. The
fat is locally adherenl‘lo lhe capsule and there is a 3.5 x 3.2 cm portion of adherent diaphragm.
Sectioning reveals a lobulaled, cirwrnscnbed. 5.9 x. 5.2 x 2.2 cm tan nodule wnh focal necrosis and
gray-while ﬁbrous sepli. The tumor extends into the adherent fat. The parenchymal margin Is Inked

blue and the diaphragm margin black. The specimen is serially sectioned. Representailve sections
are submitted as Eabeled. ‘

FSM: Tumor

FSAZ: Closest perpendicular parenchymal margin
A3; Turner to overlying diaphragm

A4: Tumor to adjacent parenchyma

A5: Tumor

Ali—AB; Tumorto adherent fa!

AQ—r‘ilo: Tumor

All ’i: Parenchymal margin

Tissue is submitted to Tissue Procurement Laboratory.

lnih‘als

 

