 

Date of Procedure:

.Head & Neck Date of Receipt “—
. stead And Neck Date of Report:
Account #1
Billing Type:

Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

1.4 cm right thyroid nodule with FNA positive for papillary carcinoma Multiple nodules seen on Ultrasound.

5' ecrmens Submitted wm: 39961DEB-E822-45F5-A7AA-E97BD340AF8e5d
1. Jugular node (fs) TCGA-DJ-A3v5-01A- PR

: l
2 R‘g'“ pa’at’acm ”mph ”“3“” Ill lllllllll|||||I||lllllllllIIIIIll|I|||I|I||l|||Ilillllllllllllllll

3: Delphlan node “IIHI ”Hum

4: Total thyroidectomy

llll llllll
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

“Jugular node"; biopsy:
- Benign ﬂbroadipose tissue. skeletal muscle and nerves 1 V I

“Right paratracheal lymph node”; biopsy:
- Benign flbroadipose tissue

“Delphlan node"; biopsy:
- Benign fibroadlpose tissue

Total thyroldectomw
Part # 4

Tumor Type:
Papillary carcinoma.tallcelivariant z 50 ”7o 12!! ad MW fw" 7:5 //‘"

Mitotic Activity:
Not Identiﬁed \ CD’O '3 (
Tumor Necrosis: CCLY'C‘ ”W Pa P Ila [VI 1’a ‘ ‘ (’6 ‘
Not identified
53%! 3
Other Tumor Features: A
Calciﬁcation of non-psammoma type 5 S
Marked stromal reaction 5 ”6' 44"“qu ' (J,
Tumor Location: C73 4 5 ’2; ll
Right lobe lab
Tumor Size:

Greatest diameter is 1.4 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
None Identified

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:

ll

 

Page 1 of 3

I“. ’23.";
\-

invadeszperithyroidai ﬁbroadipose tissue ' /

Surgical Margins:
Positive for tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):

Not identified
Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits nodular hyperplasla
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
One benign perithyroidal lymph node (0/1)

 

IATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS lS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND EHAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. -

.A—t-‘w

M —
*** Report Electronically Signed Out **"

 

Gross Description:
3.

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "jugular node frozen" and consists of a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm
soft tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

2) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "right paratracheal lymph nodes” and consists of two
pieces of adipose tissue measuring 0.9 and 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. There is no lymph node identiﬁed grossly. The
specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

3). The specimen is received in formalin labeled "Deiphian node." It consists of a single piece of pale tan soft tissue measuring
0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U — undesignaled

n.‘

4). The specimen is received fresh and placed in formalin, labeled " total thyroidectomy. stitch marks right lobe " and consists of a
thyroid weighing 11.5 9 after ﬁxation. The right lobe measures 42 x 2.1 x 1.2 cm, the left lobe measures 4 x 2 x 1 cm and the
isthmus measures 1.7 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The external surface is covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the
specimen ls inked black, and the anterior is inked blue. Sectioning reveals a 1.4 x12 x 1.1 cm white~tan, irregular, partly calciﬁed
tumor nodule in the right lobe. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red tan and beefy. Representative sections of the specimen
submitted for” :' he remaining tissue is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

 

Page20i3

“3r. "’

Summary of sections: . o ' r
N - nodule, right lobe -

LL - left lobe

iS . isthmus

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: Jugular node (is)

Black Sect. Site PCs
1 fsc 1

Part 2: Right paratracheal lymph nodeifs)

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 fee 1

Part 3: Delphlan node

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 u 1

Part 4: Total thyroidectomy

Block Sect. Site PC:

1 IS 2

6 Li. 6 1;,
6 N 6 ’

Intraogeratlve Congultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

1. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Jugular node (fs): Benign ﬁbromuscular tissue. No lymphoid tissue present.
Permanent Diagnosis: Same

2. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Right paratracheal lymph node (fa): Benign ﬁbrous and fatty tissue.
Permanent Diagnosis: Same

.c-ﬂa

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

