buohi v mucnmoJ

 

UUID: 92EE563F- AMB- 438E- 92M- 7BODBB2DSIBeSd
TCGA- A1- ABSQ -01A- PR

III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIad
III IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I I II I II IIIII I IIIII II I IIII I III

 

ICD~0’5
‘PoJI/I/ [.2 I I, ’WMW (MM nrmmma/ 8513/3
9h \ W W} C50"; [At/Jab:

a CI: W M M dud: No;
Q I W 3500/5
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Lymph node, left axilla, sentinel #1, biopsy: No carcinoma in one lymph
node (0/1).

a B. Lymph node, left axilla, sentinel #2 , biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma in one
lymph node (1/1).

 

 

Page I ol‘8

Sungical Pathﬁgy ” WorkingDraft

--— a... .. .-

C. Lymph node, left axilla, sentinel #3, biopsy: No carcinoma in one Iympu
node (0/ 1).

D. Right breast, skin-sparing mastectomy:
1. Non-proliferative fibrocystic change

2. Focal lactational change.

3. No carcinoma.

E. Right breast, nipple tissue, excision: No significant pathologic
abnormality; no carcinoma.

F. Left breast, skin-sparing mastectomy:

1. Invasive ductal carcinoma, 3.8 cm, SBR grade 2; see comment.

2. “15%| carcinoma in situ, intermediate grade, assiiEiETedWitﬁ invasive
carcinoma.

3. Microcalcifications associated with invasive carcinoma.

G. Left breast, nipple tissue, excision: No significant pathologic abnormality;
no carcinoma.

H. Right axilla, accessory nipple, excision: Findings consistent with
accessory nipple tissue; no carcinoma.

1. Lymph nodes, left axilla, levels 1 and 2, dissection: No carcinoma in
twelve lymph nodes (0/ 12).

J. Left axilla, accessory nipple, excision: Findings consistent with accessory
nipple tissue; no carcinoma.
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment

- Laterality: Left.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma with mucinou_s_ﬁe_atures.
- Invasive tumor size: 3.8 cm (slices 1 to 5 contiguous at 0.75 cm thickness per slice).
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson): Grade 2.
Nuclear grade: 3, =3 points.
Mitotic count: <10 mitotic figures/10 HPF, =1 point.
Tubule/papilia formation: 10 to 75%, = 2 points.
Total points and overall grade = 6 points = grade 2.
- Lymphatic~vaswlar invasion: Present.
- Skin/nipple: On main specimen there is no nipple tissue. In separately submitted left nipple
specimen (Part G) there is no involvement by carcinoma.
- Margins for invasive tumor: Negative.
~ Deep margin: Close; (tumor is 0.05 cm (0.5 mm) away, on slide F3).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >5 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is 1.4 cm away, on slide F1).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.4 cm away, on slide F16).
~ Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.2 cm away, on slide F1).

- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): Solid with mucinous features.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ size:

- DCIS present in contiguous sections, spanning 5.3 cm.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: Intermediate.

 

Page 2 of 8

 

 

Surgical Pathology - ‘ Working Draft

.—

- Necrosis in DCIS: None.
- Microcalciﬁcations: Present, involving invasive carcinoma. ' ' ' /
- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ: Negative
- Deep margin: Close; (tumor is 0.5 mm away, on slide F3).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is >5 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is > 1 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.2 cm away, on slide F16).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.2 cm away, on slide F1).
- Lymph node status: Positive.
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 1.
- Total number sampled: 15.
- Diameter of largest metastasis: 0.5 cm (slides Bl, F52 (3))
- Extranodal extension: None
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N1MX.
Hormone receptor status was previously evaluated on this tumor However,
receptor status was requested again on the specimen and the results will be reported in an addendum.

 

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
F51 (A) Left axilla, sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1). (Dr.

F52 (B) Left axilla, sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node, 5 mm
focus, with no extranodal extension noted (1/1). (Dr. ' .

F53 (C) Left axilla, sentinel lymph node #3, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (WI). (Dr.

Clinical History A
The patient is a year-old woman with infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the left breast, diagnosed by O
needle core biopsy She now undergoes bilateral skin—sparing mastectomy, left axillary

sentinel lymph node biopsy, left axillary lymph node dissection, and excision of bilateral axillary
accessory nipples.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in ten parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is received fresh and is additionally labeled , , It
consists of a single pink-tan, ovoid lymph node candidate with attached fibrofatty tissue, measuring 1
x 0.8 x 0.5 cm in greatest dimensions. The fibrofatty tissue is trimmed, and the lymph node
candidate is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis #1. The frozen section
remnant is subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining fibrofatty tissue is submitted in
cassette A2.

Part B is received fresh and is additionally labeled It consists
of a single roughly ovoid, pink-tan lymph node candidate mu: aLdeneu sort nororatty tissue,
measuring 1.6 x 1 x 0.6 cm in greatest dimensions. The fibrofatty tissue is trimmed, and the lymph
node candidate is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis #2. The frozen section
remnant is subsequently submitted in cassette Bl. The remaining fibrofatty tissues are submitted in
cassette B2.

Part C is received fresh and is additionally labeled It
consists of a single small, soft, roughly ovoid, pink-tan lymph node candidate with attached fibrofatty
tissue, measuring 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm in aggregate. The ﬁbrofatty tissue ls trimmed, and the lymph
node candidate is bisected and entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis #3. The frozen section
remnant is subsequently submitted in cassette C1. The remaining fibrofatty tissue is submitted in
cassette (:2.

 

Pace 3 of 8

Surgical Pathology - WorkingLDi-aft

Part 0 Is "‘"eived fresh labeled .I

6% - SPECIMEN TYPE: Skin-sparing mastectomy.
- SKIN ELLIPSE: Not present.
- NIPPLE: Not present.
- ORIENTATION:
- Long suture: Lateral.
~ Short suture: Superior.
- Double suture: Nipple remnant.
- INKING (for microscopic evaluation):
- Black: Posterior margin.
- Green: Anterior inferior margin.
- Blue: Anterior superior margin.
- Yellow: Nipple remnant.
- SIZE OF SPECIMEN:
- Medial-Lateral dimension: 13.5 cm.
- Superior—Inferior dimension: 13.8 cm.
- Anterior-Posterior dimension: 1.7 cm.
- TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: 19.
- First slice (slice 1): Lateral margin.
- Last slice (slice 19): Medial margin.
- GROSS PATHOLOGY: On cut section, the specimen consists of unremarkable pink-white breast
parenchyma and tan-yellow fibroadlpose tissue. No gross lesions are identified. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette Dl: Slice 4, upper Outer quadrant, two sections.
Cassette Dz: Slice 7, upper outer quadrant.
Cassette D3: Slice 5, lower outer quadrant, two sections.
Cassette D4: Slice 7, lower outer quadrant.
{a Cassette DS: Slice 13, upper inner quadrant.
Cassette 06: Slice 15, upper inner quadrant.
Cassette D7: Slice 14, lower Inner quadrant.
Cassette 08: Slice 16, lower inner quadrant.
Cassette DQ: Slice 12, nipple remnant.
Part E is received fresh and is additionally labeled " ' It consists of a single

irregular, unoriented fragment of pink-white soft tissue, measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen
is inked blue, bisected and entirely submitted in cassette E1.

Part F ls received fresh, labeled " "l ‘
- SPECIMEN TYPE: Skin‘sparing Inascectumy.
- SKIN ELLIPSE: Not present.
- NIPPLE: Not present.
- ORIENTATION:
- Long suture: Lateral.
- Short suture: SuperiOr.
— Double suture: Nipple remnant.
- INKING (for microscopic evaluation):
- Black: Posterior.
- Green: Anterior inferior.
- Blue: Anterior superior.
- Yellow: Nipple remnant.
- SIZE OF SPECIMEN:
- Medial-Lateral dimension: 12 cm.
- Superior-Inferior dimension: 12.5 cm.
- Anterior-Posterior dimension: 1.6 cm.
- TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: Sixteen.
- First slice (slice #1): Lateral margin.

 

 

Page 4 of 8

 

 

 

Surgical Pathoi_ogy - a WorkingDraft

- Last slice (slice #16): Medial margin.
- GROSS PATHOLOGY: An irregular, firm, poorly circumscribed, pink-white soft tissue mass is
present in slices 2-6. The soft tissue mass measures 5 cm from medial to lateral, 4.5 cm from
superior to inferior, and 1.1 cm from anterior to posterior. It is 1.5 cm from the lateral specimen
margin (slice 2), 3 cm from the inferior specimen margin (slice 2), 4.5 cm from the superior margin
(slice 4), abuts the deep margin (slices 2-5), and >5 cm from the medial margin. The remainder of
the breast parenchyma consists of yellow fibroadipose tissue and unremarkable pink—white soft tissue
and no additional mass lesions are identiﬁed. Gross photographs are taken for future correlation. A
portion of the tumor is taken for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

._ ..—

Cassettes F1-F2: Slice 1, lateral margin, adjacent to soft tissue mass in slice 2, perpendicularly
sectioned.

Cassette F3: Slice 2, mid-inferior portion.

Cassette F4: Slice 2, inferior portion.

Cassettes F5-F8: Slice 3, mid—superior to inferior portion, submitted sequentially from superior to
inferior.

Cassettes F9-F13: Slice 4, mid-superior to inferior portion, submitted sequentially from superior to
inferior.

Cassettes F14—F19: Slice 5, entirely submitted submitted sequentially from superior to inferior.

Cassette F20: Slice 6, mid-superior portion.

Cassette F21: Slice 6, mid portion.

Cassette F22: Slice 6, mid inferior portion.

Cassette F23: Slice 14, mid superior.

Cassette F24: Slice 14, mid inferior.

Cassette F25: Slice 12, mid superior and mid inferior.

Cassette F26: Slice 13, mid superior.

Cassette F27: Slice 11, mid superior.

Cassette F28: Slice 16, medial margin, perpendicularly sectioned.

Cassette F29: Slice 7, mid superior.

Cassette F30: Slice 8, mid superior.

Cassette F31: . Slice 9, mid superior.

Cassette F32: Slice 10, mid superior.

Part G is received fresh and is additionally labeled It consists of a single irregular,

unoriented fragment of white-tan soft tissue, measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is inked
blue, bisected, and entirely submitted in cassette G1.

Part H is received fresh and is additionally labeled It consists of a
single ellipse of unremarkable, tan—white skin, measuring 1.3 x 0.9 cm. A short suture marks the
superior margin, and a long suture marks the posterior-lateral margin. The superior margin is inked
blue, the inferior margin is inked green, and the deep margin is inked black for microscopic evaluation.
The specimen is serially sectioned, from lateral to medial, into four slices and is entirely submitted in
cassette H1.

Part I is received fresh and is additionally labeled It
consists of multiple irregular, unoriented fragments of yellow-tan soft tissue, measuring 4.6 x 4.3 x
1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is carefully dissected to reveal fourteen candidate lymph nodes,
ranging from 1.1 to 0.3 cm in maximum dimensions. The candidate lymph nodes are submitted in
cassettes as follows:

Cassette 11: Three candidate lymph nodes, inked and bisected.

Cassette 12: Six candidate lymph nodes, submitted intact.

Cassette I3: Five candidate lymph nodes, submitted intact.

Part] is received fresh and is additionally labeled It consists of an

ellipse of unremarkable, tan-white skin, measuring 0.9 x 0.4 cm. A short suture marks the superior
margin, and a long suture marks the lateral margin. The superior margin is inked blue, the inferior
margin is inked green, and the deep margin is inked black for microscopic evaluation. The specimen is
bisected, from superior to inferior, and entirely submitted in cassette J1.

 

Page 5 of 8

 

Surgical Pathology - Working Draft

 

 

IPathology Resident _'Pathologlst
Signed:
Fee Codes:
Addenda _ {
Addendum. Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: By: ‘ ‘

Date Reported:

Addendum Comment

An immunohistochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed by manual
morphometry on block F3.

The test for estrogen receptors is positive. There is 3+ nuclear staining in >90% of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is positive.

The test for progesterone receptors is positive. There Is 2~3+ nuclear staining in >90% of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is positive.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoprotein
over-expression.

An immunohistochemical assay was performed by manual morphometry on block # using the C311
monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 1 on a
scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of
HERZ/neu oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered indeterminate. We and others have observed
that many carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene ampliﬁcation. All
carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore submitted for FISH testing. The results of
the FISH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity sc0res of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu
oncoprotein. Tumors in this category show an excellent correlation between the results of
immunohistochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show gene amplification. HERZ/neu
Interpreted by Dr.

Pathologist
Electronically signed out on

 

Pace 6 of 8

 

 

Surgical Pathology - I Working Draft

 

9ther Specimens

_Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioncd:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep imaged

Final Diagnosis
Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
Reactive cellular changes.
Inﬂammation.
See Below.

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation.
Transformation zone components are present.

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out: ~
Specimen(s) Received: A: Left chest lesion, B: Leﬁ Breast, implant capsule, C: Right Breast, implant capsule

Final Diagnosis
A. Skin, left chest, excision:

1. Skin with papillary epidermal hyperplasia and focal dermal smooth muscle
proliferation; see comment.
2. No carcinoma.

Left breast, capsulectomy:
Implant capsule.

Benign breast tissue.

No carcinoma.

Right breast, capsulectomy:
Implant capsule.
No carcinoma.

1‘43“.“ 9ND?”

 

_Speclmen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Leﬂ breast, needle core biopsy

Final Diagngsis
Left breast, needle core biopsy:

1. Infiltrating ductal carcinoma with prominent mucinous component, modiﬁed BR
grade 2, 0.25 cm; see comment.

2. Ductal carcinoma in situ without necrosis, not otherwise specified, intermediate
grade; see comment.

 

Pane‘i nl‘ll

_,_ Surgical Pathology. wawWorking Draft ‘ ‘>

 

 

,Spcclmen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration

Masai;
Left Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Fibrocystic change, see note.

 

 

 

 

END OF REPORT Page 8 of 8

