 

 

 

Clinical History:
Brain tumor

 

Gross Examination:
A. "Brain tumor (AF1)", received fresh. A 3.3 x 2.4 x 1 cm aggregate of
grayutan gelatinous tissue is received. Representative portion is frozen as
AFl, the remnant is submitted as A1. Additional sections are submitted as
A2—3.

B. “Brain tumor {BF1)", received fresh. A 5 x 4.5 x 1.6 cm aggregate of
tan—brown tissue is received. Representative portion is frozen as BFl, the
‘remnant is submitted as‘ Bl. Additional sections are submitted as 824..

C. “Brain tumor", received fresh. A 6.5 x 3.5 x 2 cm aggregate of white—pink
tissue is received. Representative sections are submitted as Cl—S.

Intraoperative Consultation:
A. "Brain tumor" :AFl— astrocytoma grade deferred
B. "Brain tumor":BF1— astrocytoma, probable low g

Microscopic Examination:

The specimen consist of a portion of brain tissue which is infiltrated by a
glial neoplasm. In many areas the neoplastic cells are round and regular with
punctate chrbmocenters with many gemistocyte forms. Focally it has evidence of
oligodendroglial differentiation. Numerous microcysts with a ,mucinous
material are identified. Other portions of the tumor. however, are composed of
cells with increased nuclear and cytoplasmic pleomorphism and hyperchromatic
elongated nuclei, these cells are more indicative of an astrocytic lineage.
Focal areas of vascular endothelial proliferation are identified, and numerous
mitotic figures are present. There is no evidence of unequivocal necrosis.

    

 

Immunohistochemical Findings:

An imunohistochemical stain for the KI—S? (proliferation related) antigen

shows a labeling index of 5%.

Continued on next page. .. Patient:
MRN:
Location: i

  

 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. "BRAIN TUMOR":

ANAPLASTICtjA 'Q-inI)

 

/
B. "BRAIN TUMOR":

ANAPLASTIC ASTROCYTOMA (WHO GRADE III)

C. "BRAIN TUMOR“:

ANAPLASTIC ASTROCYTOMA {WHO GRADE III)

I certify that I personally conducted the diagnOStic evaluation of the above
specimen(s) and have rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Electronically signed: -

** END OF REPORT ** Patient:

Rx No:

 

 

