 

 

     

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:
Date of Receipt:
Date of Report:
Account it:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

Clinical Dia nosis & Histo :‘ .TCGA-BP'4954

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: Kidney, right. nephreciomy

2: Lymph nodes. precavel no es and aracaval nodes, resection-
3: Adrenal gland. right, adreneciomy

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Kidney, right, nephrectom-
Tumor Type:

Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear calf) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade liIiV

Tumor Size: ‘
Greatest diameter is 3.9 cm.

Local Invasion (for renal cortiCal types):
Not identiﬁed
the tumor abuts'the renal sinus

Renal Vain Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins: ,

Free of tumoi‘
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:

Focal chronic inﬂammation

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinoma/oncocytoma:
pTi Tumor <= 10 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

........................................................

2. Lymph nodes, precavai nodes and perecavai nodes, res-aetiol-
Lymph Nodes:

 

 

Page 1 of 3

 

Not involved

Number of nodes examined: it
Number of metastatic nodes: 0

 

 

3. Adrenal gland, right, adronectcm-

Adrenal gland. unremarkable.
One benign lymph node. (0ft)

lATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSlS is BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMFNATION OF THE SLIDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS R EPORT.

 

 

Gross Description:

 

1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation labeled "right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached
ureter, renal vessels and perinephric fat weighing 317.0 g in total. The kidney measures 9.6 x 6.6 x 4.0 cm. T he attached ureter
measures 5.0 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 3.0 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter.
The renal vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not identiﬁed. The kidney is inked black and
bivalved to reveal a variegated yellow and hemorrhagic wail-circumscribed mass with cystic areas measuring 3.9 x 3.0 x 2.9 cm.
The lesion abuts but does not Invade the capsule. and compresses the renal pelvis. The mass is located in the mid region adjacent
to the pelvis. Sections through the remainder ottha kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma, with a welt-deﬁned cortico-rnedultary
junction. The cortex measures 0. 6 cm and the calycas appear normal. No deﬁnitive lymph nodes are identified in the parinaphric
lat Representative sections are stlbmittad for TPS and for permanent sections

Summary of sections:

UVM -- urateral and vessel margins

T~— tumor

TSF -- tumor with sinus tat

TK .. tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections
K -- representative sections kidney
F—adipose tissue

FSC~frozan section control

2). The specimen is received in formalin is labeled “pre-caval and paracaval lymph nodes" and consists of multiple lymph nodes
with attached fat measuring 4.0 x 3.5 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN-iym ph nodes

3). The specimen is received in formalin" is labeled "right adrenal gland“ and consists of an adrenal gland with attached lat
measuring 7 0 x 2.“ o x t) 4 cm Each from the weight of the adrenal gland' is 10 5 9 Go out section the adrenal gland has an
unremarkable cortex and medulla. An attached soft tan black lymph node is identiﬁed to the surface of the adrenal measuring 2.0
' x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
A—adrsnai gland
L- lymph node

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

Summagy of Sections: .
Part 1: Kidney, right. nephrectomy-

“U
0
9')

Block Sect. Site
f

fsc

F:

it?

t

tk

tsi

uvm

u—lM—Amm-A—LA
ANAmN—Av—Ap‘}.

Part 2: Lymph nodes, precavalnodes and paraceval nodes. resection-

Block Sect. Site P03
6 in 6

Part 3: Adrenal gland, right, adrenectomy.

Block Sect. Site P05
2 a 2
1 i 1

Inlrnonerativc Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the lntraoperative

consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION DlAGNOSiS; RENAL CELL CARClNOMA. CONVENTIONAL TYPE.-

PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: SAME

 

Page 3 of 3

END OF REPORT

 

