TCGA 413—3920

   

SPECIMEN

A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.

CLINICAL NOTES

Level 10

Level 11

Level 12

Right upper lobe
2R

4R

Level 8

Level 7

Level 9

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh. subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 10" is a 1 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm. blackntan irregular soft
tissue fragment which is bisected and entirely submitted in one
Cassette. AS—l

B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 11“ is a 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. pink—black irregular
soft tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected and entirely
submitted in one cassette. Asrl

C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 12" are two black—tan irregular soft tissue
fragments which are 1.8 cm. and 1 cm. in greatest dimension. The
specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. Asvl

D. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

”right upper lobe" is a 15 x 14 x 5 cm. lobe of lung. The
specimen shows a 3.5 cm. indurated focus on the pleura. This area
is inked blue. The specimen is sectioned to show a large white tan
indurated mass which is 5.0 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm. This specimen is
sectioned to show the tumor coming within 1.5 cm. from the surgical
stapled margin (inked black). This also comes within 3.5 cm. from

GROSS DESCRIPTION
the hilum. The tumor mass is firm and indurated. The remainder of
the cut surface shows a pink—red spongy parenchyma. No discrete
hilar nodes are grossly identified. Representative sections of the
specimen are submitted as follows: Block 1, 2 — tumor to pleura;
block 3 — tumor to surgical margin; block 4 — tumor to normal;
block
5 — representative normal; block 6 w hilar and vascular margins;
block 7 ~ possible hilar nodes. RS—7.
E. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"2R" are three yellow—red fatty tissue fragments which may
contain possible lymphoid tissue. These range from 0.6 cm. to 1.2
cm. in greatest dimension. The specimens are entirely submitted in

one cassette. AS-l

 

 

F. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"4R" is a 1.2 cm. pink fleshy nodule which shows black
discoloration on cut surface. There is also a minute aggregate
measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The larger is bisected and the
specimens are entirely submitted as followe: block 1 — larger lymph
node; 2 ~ smaller aggregate. '

G. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

“level 8" is a 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. pink—red irregular soft
tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS~1

H. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 7" is an aggregate of yellow—pink—red irregular

soft

tissue fragment which may contain lymphoid tissue measuring 1.5 x
0.8 X 0.3 cm. The specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.
AS~1

I. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 9" are tw0 black—pink irregular soft tissue
fragments which are 1.2 cm. and 0.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The
specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette with the larger
bi—valved. The specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette.

Asa —

GROSS DESCRIPTION

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A-C. Sections of the level 10, level 11, and level 12
lymph
nodes demonstrate no evidence of metastatic disease in one
lymph node each.
1 D. The following template applies to the right upper
obe:

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Primary tumor: measures 5 cm, (pT2):

Margins of resection: Uninvolved.

Direct extension of tumor: Not identified.

Venous (large vessel} invasion: Not identified.

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified.

Lymphatic {small vessel) invasion: Not identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pH): Negative as deseribed in other
speCimens

{13160) .

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluated by this specimen (pMX).

Other findings: Four lymph nodes are negative for metastatic

disease.

B. There is no evidence of metastatic disease to four 2R

 

 

lymph

level

 

lymph nodes.
F. There is no evidence

nodes.

G. There is no evidence
8 lymph node.

H. There is no evidence

7 lymph nodes.
I. There is no evidence
9 lymph nodes.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
3x7, 4x2

DIAGNOSIS
A. Level 2 lymph node, resection —

No evidence of resection to

of metastatic disease to 3 4R

of metastatic disease to one level

of metastatic disease to four

of metastatic disease to two level

one lymph node (0/1}.

8. Level 11 lymph node, resection —

No evidence of metastasis to one lymph node (0/1)-
Level 12 lymph nodes, resection ~

No evidence of metastasis to one lymph node (0/1)-
Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy —

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, 5 cm. in

C.

D.

greatest dimension.

Surgical margins uninvolved.

Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic disease.

2R lymph nodes, resection —

No evidence of metastasis to 4 lymph nodes (0/4).

4R lymph nodes, resection -

No evidence of metastasis to 3 lymph nodes (0/3).

Level B lymph node, resection

No evidence of metastasis to l lymph node (0/1).

Level 7 lymph node, resection

No evidence of metastasis to 4 lymph nodes (0/4).

Level 9 lymph node, resection

No evidence of metastasis to 2 lymph nodes (0/2).

 

—-- End Of Report ~—

 

 

