Patient Results
Page 1 of3 > Clinical Center ’

a W ‘ UUID: ENCOBBF- 6261-4C59-8A1F- 6DD5975637De2d
TCGA- L5- A4EQ -B1A- PR
Gender: I. Birth Date: _ IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II II IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIII III 3

llllIlllllllllllillllllllIlIllllllIlIlllllllllll IIIII IIIIIIIIIII
“WW“ " III lllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllliliilllllllllilllll E

 

 

 

?-——-“ ﬁnal—Results]
AP Supplemental Report Final

CASE NUMBER:—
SUPPLEMENTAL

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
E REPORT

I REASON FOR THE SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT: To clarify the location of the
, lesions. Diagnosis remains unchanged.

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Lymph node, delphan lymph node. biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma to I
lymph node (111). ;

2. Thyroid, total thyroidectcmy:

- Papillary thyroid carcinoma. conventional type.(3.5cm), isthmus / Gd - o , 3
- Hurthle cell neoplasm, favor Hurthle cell adenoma. (left lobe).

See note: \ 4! (M4. "gt Yﬂbo 3
- Multinodular goiter , 0mm, ”’1‘” W” /
érfp : WM. m: £73.?

a The original report is as follows: W

4’ at I;
DIAGNOSIS: / /

‘l. Lymph node, delphan lymph node, biopsy: Metastatic carcinoma to

lymph node (1/1).

2. Thyroid. total thyroidectomy:

. i. Papillary thyrold carcinoma, conventional type.(3.5cm), left
i lobe.
I ii. Hurthle cell neoplasm. favor Hurthle cell adenoma. (isthmus). See
note:
iii. Multlnodular goiter.

NOTE: The Hurthle cell neoplasm shows no evidence of ﬁbrous capsule and
capsular or vascular Invasion. This lesion stains positive for
thyroglobulin and negative for Calcitonin.

Dr. , , . . is informed by Dr.. . of presence of micrometastasleln
lymph node on . ‘ . .

lmmunoperoxidase and in-situ hybridization tests performed here and used

for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics

determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been

cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA

has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. !
This laboratory ls certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement i
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity

clinical laboratory testing.

 

Confidential Patient Inlbmuuion. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited by the I‘cdcml Privacy AcI of ION.

Requested By: mower) Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

. .5... ..__._.__.__.7___.,4_.

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— —. 1...— .._..._._.u.:_< gases—MM...-

 

Page 2 of 3 Clinical Center .
m ’ Admit Protocol: ﬂ 0
Gender: a Birth Date” Age: Q . V
Admit Protocolz-l— Admit Fromm!
, Final ResultsI
i—__Cilnlcal-Hlstory: -thyrold
cancer papillary Specimen Taken For
Protocol. 01- Yes
PROCEDURE: Pro-Operative Diagnosis: papillary thyroid ca '
Post-Operative
Diagnosis: same Operative Findings: isthmus nodule.
left lobe nodule
SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. SERIAL 5 + 3FS, Delphan lymph node (1FS)
2. THYROIDECTOMY. TOTAL
INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
1FS: "Delphan lymph node. rule out metastatic-thyroid cancer".
IFS Diagnosis: Lymph node with fibrotlc tissue. no tumor seen.
-The frozen section Is performed by Dr. ' and Dr. .,
- Dr. , _ , is informed by Dr. of presence of micrometastasls in
lymph node on . _
GROSS DESCRIPTION: Two specimens are received fresh with the "
patient's name. medical record num her, and further speciﬁed as follows: a

1. "Delphan lymph node, rule out metastatlcthyrold cancer". It
consists of a yellow-tan soft tissue fragment measuring 0.8 x 0.? x' 0.4
cm. Entirely frozen. In Surgical Pathology. the specimen matched the
above description and the specimen is transferred to cassette

2. "Total thyroid gland. long stitch n’ght superior. short left
superior". It is a total thyroidectomy weighing 42.7 grams (post
procurement). Gross photographs are taken. The right lobe measures 3 x
2.5 x 1.5 cm. The left lobe 6.5 x 3 x 1.5 cm. Isthmus measures 4 x 4 x
1.5 cm. A solid lesion measuring 3.5 x 3.2 x 2.2 is identified In the
left lobe. while a cystic lesion 3.3 x 2.5 x 2 cm in deﬂated state is
identified in Isthmus. Approximately 1 x 1 cm of tissue Is procured for
Dr . from each lesions Procurement was performed by Dr.
in OR and ‘ on .
Also 0 5 cm of each tumor and 0.5 x 1 x 1 cm of normal tissue In the
right lobe is also procured for Dr. The right anterior
aspect of the gland (right lobe and Isthmus) is inked blue. the left
anterior aspect of the gland (left lobe) is Inked red. and posterior
aspect of the gland ls Inked black. Approximately 0.8 x 0.6 x O 3 cm of
normal-appearing thyroid tissue from the right lobe l8_ procured In TPPF
for the normal tissue bank by on
a. m. The remainder of the specimen is placed in formalin and submitted ‘
for Pathology for permanent processing. In Surgical Pathology. the
specimen matched the above description and Is entirely submitted. The
external capsule of the gland is grossly uninvolved by aforementioned
two lesions. The superior asoact of left lobe is grossly uninvolved :
with a beefy-red cut surface and Is submitted in cassettes 2A and 28 i?

Conﬁdential Patient Information. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited bythe Fodernl Privacy Act of I974.

 

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

Patient Results
Page 3 of 3 Clinical Center I!

..- Admitrrotocolzd-I 2
Birth Date: “I Age: ﬂy

 

 

 

 

 

Final Results]

 

 

 

 

m.._ ___from _sup_er.ior_to_inferior..The.solidtestonertt1e_intedoLa5pect of
left lobe Is yellow-tan and well-circumscribed with multiple focal
punctate hemorrhage and multiple nodular lesion measuring around 0.5 x

. 0.8 cm but no necrosis or depressed scar. The solid lesion ls submitted

l from left upper aspect to left lower aspect in cassette ZC-ZJ and right

i upper to right lower aspect in 2K-20. The cystic lesion in the isthmus

| . is gray-tan with a ﬁnely papillary and granular appearance and focal

. punctate hemorrhage. A calciﬁed spot around 0.8x 0.6x 0.6 cm is

3 identified in the right middle aspect of the cystic lesion. The Isthmus

. Is submitted from left upper aspect to left lower aspect in 2P-2R and

; right upper to right lower inMright aspect of Isthmus and

I left aspect of rlghtiobe from left to right”: right lobe from
superior to. inferior. 2G6: superior aspect of very right end of right
lobe. ZHH: Inferior aspect of the very right end of right lobe.

No consultants

0 ..

mum "‘ ' 1' .
DidgncsisDiscrepancy u
Primary iunrorsive Discrepancy I ‘-

 

ﬂaggisaepancv
Prior Malignancy History

2:212:33?“ y 2%?“ 3—. 3% i / 3 my
.~ a. 'FIEL / -.— — .
a U rm W— ‘

RevieweIIerals ' Iewed‘ V l l

 

 

 
 

r ' T !

 

Conﬁdential Patient Information. Unauthorized disclosure is prohibited hy the Federal Privacy Act of l974.

; Requested By: # (Other) Do not file in Medical Record

