W 171363
WWW/K505

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY reads

Case Number: %®WN® 3/4DI'3
Diagnosis: Ciﬁﬁil HéguﬁmﬂﬂQ/J CﬂQEiCD

A: Liver, right lobe, segment 4, biopsy
— Negative for malignancy 955 gl/g/lgl
— Fragments of dense fibrous tissue and blood clot

- NO definitive liver parenchyma identified umowmwmaaﬁauwamzmnummma

TCGA- FZ- A7TX- 0111- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIeIIIIIIIcIIml
IIIIIIIII
uumIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'IIIIIIII'II

US]

Falciform ligament, biopsy
Negative for malignancy

C: Perigastric lymph node, biopsy
- One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1) with densely
hyalinized nodule with dystrophic calcifications (see comment)

D: Common bile duct, margin

— Fragment of common bile duct with rare atypical cells
suspicious for invasive adenocarcinoma

— See comment

E: Pancreatic duct, margin
Negative for malignancy

F: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy

Severe acute and chronic cholecystitis with mucosal erosion
and reactive atypia

— Negative for malignancy

G)

Explanted biliary stent

Surgical mesh consistent with biliary stent placement
Necrotic debris with scant fragments of atypical bile duct
epithelium consistent with high grade dysplasia (PanIN-3)

H: Pancreas, pancreaticoduodenectomy

Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor size: 3.6 cm (gross measurement)

Tumor site: Pancreatic head; tumor encases‘bile duct

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Microscopic extent of invasion:

Peripancreatic soft tissues: Positive for tumor

Duodenum: Tumor invades muscularis propria and submucosa of
duodenum

Ampulla: Negative for malignancy, but extensive high grade
dysplasia

Lymphovascular invasion: Present
Perineural invasion: Present

Margins:

Pancreatic resection margin: Negative for malignancy; tumor is
1.0 cm from the pancreatic resection margin

Bile duct: Positive for adenocarcinoma (H4); presumably
superseded by specimen D

Uncinate process (retroperitoneal) margin: Negative for
malignancy, but close; tumor is 0.1 cm from the uncinate margin
Peripancreatic soft tissues: Positive for tumor (H18)

Proximal (gastric or duodenal): Negative for malignancy; tumor
is 3.0 cm from the gastric margin (gross measurement)

Distal (duodenal): Negative for malignancy; tumor is 12.0 cm
from the duodenal margin (gross measurement)

Distance to closes margin (specify): Tumor extends to
peripancreatic soft tissue margin and to the common bile duct
margin (the latter in this specimen)

Treatment effect (if applicable):
— No prior treatment

Regional lymph nodes: 7 of 18 lymph nodes positive for
metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 4 mm in
greatest dimension, positive for extracapsular extension (7/18)

Additional pathologic findings: — Focal PanIN-2
— Extensive acute and chronic pancreatitis with ulceration of

common bile duct and extension of inflammation into surrounding
soft tissue

Diagnosis of other organs or structures:

- Stomach with moderate chronic gastritis with prominent
intestinal metaplasia, reactive atypia and acute serositis
— No Helicobacter pylori identified on H & E stain

— Small bowel margin with acute serositis

— Numerous hyalinized soft tissue nodules with dystrophic
calcifications suggestive of previous fat necrosis

AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage: pT3 le

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

I: Liver, biopsy

- Liver with cirrhosis and changes consistent with
steatohepatitis

- No malignancy identified

— Prominent centrilobular cholestasis consistent with large bile
duct obstruction

- Mildly increased hepatocyte iron (grade 1)

- See comment

Comment:

The findings in specimen C may represent an old calcified
granuloma or possibly an area of fat necrosis.

The frozen section slides for specimen D are reviewed and the
frozen section diagnosis confirmed. The atypical cells are seen
only on the permanent sections for specimen D and, later,

invasive carcinoma is seen in the common bile duct margin in
specimen H.

Microscopic examination of specimen 1 demonstrates liver with
cirrhosis. The dense bands of fibrosis are outlined by trichrome
and reticulin stains. Prominent peri—cellular fibrosis is also
present. Mildly increased hepatocyte iron is seen on iron stain
in hepatocytes and portal tracts. No significant PAS positive
material suggestive of alpha—1 antitrypsin deficiency seen on
PASD stain, although abundant PAS—positive material is present
in Kupffer cells, consistent with hepatocyte damage. There is
prominent centrilobular cholestasis with feathery degeneration
suggestive of large duct obstruction. There is also focal
ballooning degeneration and macrovesicular steatosis

involving approximately 10% of the hepatic parenchyma with
prominent Mallory‘ s hyaline. There is bile ductular
proliferation with portal inflammation consisting predominantly
of lymphocytes with focal interface hepatitis. Lobular

inflammation consisting of neutrophils and lymphocytes is also
present.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by Dr. in on
at . (A,B) at (D—E)

FSAl: Liver, right lobe, segment 4, biopsy
— No tumor identified (Levels x4)

FSBl: Falciform ligament, biopsy
— No tumor identified (Levels x3)

FSCl: Perigastric lymph node, biopsy
— No tumor identified

FSDl: Common bile duct, margin

- Focal atypical epithelium in a background of severe acute and
chronic inflammation, favor reactive

- Dr. concurs

FSEl: Pancreatic duct margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Drs. at on ' (A,B) and ( C ); and
Drs. at (DPE).

Frozen Section Pathologist:, MD

Clinical History:

—year—old male with pancreatic mass. FNA was positive for
adenocarcinoma.

Gross Description:

Received are nine appropriately labeled containers. Specimens A—
E are received fresh for frozen section.

Container A is additionally labeled "biopsy, liver, right lobe."
It consists of multiple fragments of red/tan soft tissue and
blood with an aggregate measurement of 0.3 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm in
aggregate. (Block FSA1,

Container B is additionally labeled "biopsy, falciform
ligament." It consists of a 0.1 x less than 0.1 x less than 0.1
cm white/tan soft tissue fragment totally submitted as FSBl,

Specimen C is additionally labeled "perigastric lymph node" and
consists of a 1.3 x 1.3 x 0.7 cm pink/tan lymph node candidate

which is calcified on cut surface. The specimen is trisected and
completely submitted as FSCl,

Specimen D is additionally labeled "common bile duct" and
consists of two fragments of pink/tan soft tissue, 0.8 x 0.3 x
0.3 cm in aggregate, submitted as FSDl,

Specimen E is additionally labeled "pancreatic duct margin" and

consists of a 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm aggregate of pink/tan soft
tissue, totally submitted as FSEl,

Specimen F is appropriately labeled "gallbladder" is a 8.7 x 2.6
x 0.9 cm gallbladder received with a 2 x 1.4 cm defect at the
level of the body. Attached is a 0.5 cm long x 0.5 cm diameter
cystic duct which is 3.4 cm from the defect. The serosa is tan
with an extensive amount of adhesions with a roughened hepatic
bed. The wall is 0.3 cm to 0.4 cm thick. The mucosa is
tan—brown, velvety and containing scanty amount of hemorrhagic

material.

Block Summary:

F1 — cystic duct
F2 - defect with representative gallbladder

Specimen G is appropriately labeled "explanted biliary stent" is
an 8.0 cm long x 0.9 cm diameter, cylindrical wired mesh with a

minimal amount of tan-brown fragments of tissue. There is also a
1.4 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm aggregate of soft, tan—brown tissue submitted
entirely in block Gl,

Specimen H is additionally labeled "Whipple."

Specimen fixation: formalin

Specimen type: Standard Whipple

Organs received (Whipple Specimen): Distal stomach (1.9 cm long

x 3.1 cm in diameter); Duodenum (14.6 cm long x up to
5.7 cm in circumference); Pancreas (5.9 x 4.9 x 4.2 cm)

Orientation: Inking: CBD=yellow, pancreatic body margin=blue,
uncinate=black, peripancreatic soft tissuezgreen.
Tumor location: Pancreatic head

Tumor dimensions: 3.6 x 3.2 x 2.4 cm

Gross appearance of tumor: Tan/gray, firm, lobulated and ill—
defined.

Extent of invasion:

Confined / non—confined to the pancreas: grossly appears to be
confined

Involvement of the ampulla: not involved

Involvement of the duodenum: grossly appears to involve the
duodenal wall, but not the mucosa

Involvement of the bile duct: The mass encases the bile duct

which appears granular, erythematous and dilated for a
length of 3.4 cm.

Involvement of adjacent vessels: does not appear to grossly
appear to involve

Spleen (if applicable): n/a

Gallbladder (if applicable): n/a

Stomach (if applicable): grossly does not involve
Surgical margins:

Pancreatic body: focally abuts

Uncinate (Retroperitoneal): 0.1 cm

Common Bile duct: 0.1 cm

Proximal margin (stomach): 3.0 cm

Distal margin (duodenum): 12.0 cm

Peripancreatic soft tissues: 0.1 cm

Vascular groove: 0.1 cm

Lymph nodes: Multiple lymph node candidates are grossly
identified, ranging in size from 0.3 to 2.1 cm in
greatest dimension.

Other remarkable findings: The pancreas demonstrates a 0.8 cm in
greatest dimension cyst with a smooth inner lining, tan

in the uncinate. The remaining pancreatic tissue is

tan/yellow and lobulated with interspersed adipose tissue. The
duodenal mucosa is tan/brown with normal folding pattern without
any masses or lesions grossly identified. The distal stomach

mucosa is tan, granular, without any masses or lesions grossly
identified.

Digital photograph taken: not taken

Tissue submitted for special investigation: Tissue procured for
research

Block summary:

H1 — representative proximal, en face

H2 — distal, en face

H3 - ampulla, perpendicular

H4 — common bile duct, en face

H5—H8 - pancreatic body resection margin, perpendicular sections
H9—H12 — uncinate margin, perpendicular sections

H13 — mass with respect to duodenal wall

H14~H16 — mass with respect to common bile duct and
peripancreatic soft tissue (inked green)

H17 — mass involvement with duodenum with respect to pylorus

H18 — mass with respect to peripancreatic soft tissue (inked
green)

H19 — representative pancreatic cyst and uninvolved pancreatic
tissue

H20 - normal uninvolved pancreas

H21 — normal uninvolved duodenum

H22—H23 — multiple lymph node candidates
H24 — one bisected lymph node candidate
H25—H26 — representative remaining fibroadipose tissue

Specimen I is appropriately labeled "liver biopsy" 8.8 cm long x

0.2 cm diameter 1 cm diameter aggregate of 6 cores submitted
entirely in block I1,

{2 155‘ (I1 Memes”) jam“ 91””
IZLA “Mdee ﬁ'“wm*umwmme’
Md.

Critezia

   
   
 
    
    
 

umor She
HIPAA

Case is
Rwiewm

  

 

war
TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form )

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis

documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I‘issue Source Site (T33): T55 Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (Interviewer Name on . Completed Date:
Diagnosis Information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis ad enocarcin cm a the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial ————-_—-—_'—-——- this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
poorly differentiated
Pathology Report
- . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
HIStOIOgIC features Of . Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 the sample provided ductal adenocarcmoma
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

3 Provide the reason for . . Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy Per the Slgn out pathOIOQISt, pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
between the pathology it was a poorly differentiated tumor “gm“ “we“ °“ the TCGA Case “3"” 0mm“ Fm“
report a“? the TCGA but is thought to be a ductal
Case Quality Control ,

Form adenocarcmoma.

Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or for TCGA-

Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director Date

I acknowledge that the above Information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

Principal Investigator Signature Date

 

