   

 

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure—

Diagnosis

A. Right upper lobe, wedge resection:

Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.1 cm, margins
uninvolved.

B. Level 10 lymph node, resection:

No metastasis identified in one lymph node (0/1).
C. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:

No carcinoma identified.

No evidence of metastasis in 3 lymph nodes (0/3).
D. R4 lymph nodes, resection:

No metastasis identified in 7 lymph nodes (0/7).
E. Subcarinal lymph nodes, resection:

No metastasis identified in 4 lymph nodes (0/4).

 

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic examination performed.

A. Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): 2.1 cm, pT1

Margins of resection: Uninvolved

Direct extension oftumor: Not identified

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified

Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Negative, pNO

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by this specimen, pMX

Other findings: None

B. Level 10 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of metastasis in one
lymph node.

C. The remainder ofthe right upper lobe demonstrates no evidence of
malignancy. 3 lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disease.

D. The R4 lymph nodes demonstrate 7 lymph nodes with no evidence of
metastasis.

E. The subcarinal lymph nodes demonstrate 4 lymph nodes with no

evidence of metastasis.

 

Specimen

A. Right upper lobe wedge

B. Level 10

C. Right upper lobe

D. R. 4

E. Subcarinal

Clinical Information

Right lung mass

Intraoperative Consultation

AFSl, AFSZ: Lung mass, excision: Non—small cell carcinoma, favor
squamous cell carcinoma

I

Gross Description

gross A. Container "A" is labeled with the patient's name, medical
record number and "right upper lobe wedge". The specimen consists of a
single pink to tan piece of wedge—shaped lung tissue measuring 12.2 x
6.5 x 2.5 cm in greatest dimensions. There is a 12 cm staple line
present. The pleural surface is puckered. This region is inked and
sectioned. On cut section there is a soft necrotic appearing tan —
black mass which measures 2.1—1.5 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimensions. A
portion is submitted for tissue procurement. The staple line is

greater than 1.5 cm from the mass. Representative sections submitted
AFSl, FSZ, A1 — A3: lung mass entirely submitted; A4 — surgical margin;

A5 — non—neoplastic lung

 

B. Received fresh labeled "level 10" is a 0.8 cm soft tan to gray

tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in one block.

C. Received fresh labeled "right upper lobe" is a 156 g, 17.0 x 7.8 x

3.2 cm lobectomy specimen with attached 1.2 cm in length, 1.8 x 1.0 cm
in diameter bronchial stump. Several staple lines are present. The
staple line along the lateral aspect ofthe specimen is removed and the
underlying surface is inked blue. On sectioning, the parenchyma
throughout the specimen is spongiform tan—red and no residual lesion or
abnormality is identified grossly. 3 soft tan—gray tissues in keeping

with lymph nodes ranging from 0.5—0.9 cm are recovered from the hilum.
-

Summary: 1 — bronchial margin; 2 — vascular margins; 3 through 6 — site
of staple line; 7 through 9 — random parenchyma; 10 — 3 lymph nodes

D. Received fresh labeled "R 4" is a 2.1 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm aggregate of

fragmented soft tan—gray tissue admixed with a scant amount of adipose

tissue. -

E. Received fresh labeled "subcarinal" are 4 soft tan—gray tissues

ranging from 0.5—0.7 cm. -

