UUID : CB29CD1C-584B-42EA-BF1D-1186DF8EA756
TCGA- A5-A2K4-91A-

PR Redacted
H i ll l H I III" I IIHIIHlllﬂlllllllllllillﬂHillllHlHlllll
IHIllililllIllHlliillllllililliliilllllllllﬂliHi
llIillHllilHllilllllHlllHllllill“llMlllllllllllﬂlllllllll

l
l
I

 

 

 

 

“Ordering M D' '
Dale Of E Copies To
Age/Sex:
Location
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT /6A , p , 3
WW“, Wm M! 94"“! 3
DIAGNOSIS: Sim Wm Cry-I f;
A. RIGHT HIP SUBCUTANEOUS MASS, EXCISION: 7/17”,
- Cystic fat necrosis with calciﬁcation /”
— No tumor identiﬁed

B. LEFT PERITONEAL BIOPSY:
— Fibrous connective tissue involved by serous adenoearcinoma, high grade

C. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY, SALPlNGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Ovarian surface and parenchymal involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma
- Fallopian tube with surface involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma

D. LEFT BLADDER PERITONEUM, BIOPSY:
- Fibrous connective tissue involved by serous adenocareinoma, high grade

. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY, SALPINCO~OOPHORECTOMY:
- Ovarian surface involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma
- Fallopian tube with surface involvement by high grade serous adenocareinoma

UTERUS/CERVIX. TOTAL HYSTERECTOMY:
- Cervix:
- Cervical epithelium and stroma involved by primary uterine serous
adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade III
- Endometrium:
- Endometrial serous adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade III, with papillary architecture
(uterine papillary serous adenocarcinoma)
- Myometrium:
— Involved by serous adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade III to a depth of greater than
50% of myometrial thickness (8 mm in a 1.5 cm section)
- Deﬁnite angiolymphatic invasion is not identified (See comment)
— Lipoleiomyoma
- Leiomyoma
- Serosa:
— No involvement by serous adenocarcinoma

Fl

1”

COMMENT: The tumor in the ovaries and peritoneal biopsies is interpreted as metastases from
the uterine primary and exhibits similar if not identical morphology. The AJCC Pathologic Stage
is pT3a/Nx.

Palient Case(s)'

w...“ M--.» .- “Wm”. , Page l of 4
PA'l itaN'i' mm u- am m to st ‘1. l 3
DR. WNURSL m n;

 

 

Patient:

W.
(‘lrriprma u I .

Date of Eli Comes To:
Age/Sex, 6
Location: 3

 

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

HISTORY: Ascites, bilateral pelvic masses

MICROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.

GROSS:

A. RIGHT HIP SUBCUTANEOUS MASS

Labeled with the patient‘s name. labeled “right hip subcutaneOus mass", and received in formalin is a 2.0 x 0.8 x 0.5
cm whitish gray ﬁrm soﬂ tissue fragment. Entirely submitted.

Al. 1

B. LEFT PERITONEAL BIOPSY

Labeled with the patient‘s name. labeled "left peritoneal biopsy", and received in formalin is a 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm
gray-tan firm soft tissue segment. Entirely submitted.

Bl. l

C. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled "leﬁ tube and ovary“, and received fresh in the Operating Room for frozen
section consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a 14 gram salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The
specimen measures 5.5 x 4.2 x 1.0 cm. The external surface contains is gray-tan and rough with many areas of
associated cautery artifact. A previous incision has been made into a 2.0 x l.8 x 0,4 cm ﬁrm white~tan lesion. The
mass appears to have replaced most of the normal ovarian stroma. There is an area of possible ovarian stroma
measuring 1.5 x 1,0 x 0.8 cm. The ovarian parenchyma is unremarkable in appearance. The fallopian tube is 3.8
cm in length with a diameter of up to 0.5 cm. Sectioning of the fallopian tube reveals a stellate patent pinpoint
lumen. Representative sections submitted.

ink key for margin assessment: external surface-black

Slide key:

Cl. Frozen section remnant - 2

C2. Ovarian mass with possible ovarian parenehyma - 2

C3. Possible ovarian parenchyma - 2

C4. Fallopian tube, proximal. mid, sectioned ﬁmbriated end - 3

D. LEFT BLADDER PERJTONEUM

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "leﬁ bladder peritoneum“, and received in formalin is a 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm
aggregate of multiple gray-tan smooth ﬁrm tissue fragments ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension.
Entirely submitted.

Dl. Multiple

Patient Case!s \

rage A or it

 

PATIENT NO'lelEl') 0F if STTrs
a DREW... EURS": .- -- ..-ﬂ£‘l!i.__

 

 

PATIENT: 5-; ,

E. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY
Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right tube and ovary", and received in formalin is a 15.2 gram salpingo-
oophorectomy specimen. The specimen measures 9.5 x 5.5 x 1.4 cm. The external surface ofthe specimen centains

parenchyma measuring 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The external surface of the cyst is gray-tan, smooth and glistening. The
internal Surface is rough, red and brown in color. The external surface will be inked black. The segment of
fallopian tube present measuring 7.5 cm in length with a diameter of up to 0.3 cm. There is a stellate pinpoint
patent lumen on cross-sectioning. Multiple adhesions are causing the fallopian tube to be tortuous in appearance.
Representative sections are submitted.

lnk key for margin assessment: extemal serosal surface-black

Slide key:

El. Disrupted cyst wall - 3

82. Possible ovarian parenchyma with thickened serosa - 2
E3. Proximal, mid, distal ﬁmbriated end of fallopian tube - 3

F. UTERUS/CERVIX

Labeled with the patient's name. labeled "uterus/cervix", and received in formalin is a 75 gram previously opened
hysterectomy specimen. The specimen measures 7.1 cm from fundus to surgical margin, 6.1 cm from cornu to
comu, and 3.1 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosal surface is pink-tan with multiple adhesions. There are
also areas of cautery anifact present. The endometrial cavity is 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. Within the cndometrial cavity is
a pink—tan soﬂ polypoid lesion measuring 1.2 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm. Cut section through the lesion reveals possible
invasion through the rnyometrium. The lesion is 2.2 cm from the outer wall of the uterus.

slightly hemorrhagic. The myometrium is piniotan and smooth and measures up to 2.0 cm in thickness. No other

ink key for margin assessment: external serosal surface anterior uterus-blue, serosal surface of posterior uterus-
black

Slide key:

F1. Anterior cervix . 1

F2. Posterior cervix - 1

F3. Anterior lower uterine segment ~ 1
F4. Posterior lower uterine segment — l
F5,F6. Endocervical mass ~ I each

F7. POSterior uterine corpus - 1

F8. Leiomyoma- 1

Gross dictated by

OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

TPDI:
- Adenocarcinoma
FSC 1:
- At least borderline serous tumor. possibly adenocarcinoma arising in, defer

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of «l

 

 

.

‘W mu»;

PATIENT: l,

If (his report Includes tmmunohisiochemtcal lest rcsullx. please noie the/allowing;
Numerous immunohislochemr‘cal 12515 were developed and their performance characteristicx determined by
. Those :mmunohislochemica! lesLs have no! [men viewed or approved by the

41..) food and Drug Adminulralion (FDA), and F 0/1 approvan' is no! required.

 

I lmw- nermnallv examined the specimen, interpreted the resulxs. reviewed the report and signed it electronically.

SURGICAL PATHOLOG Y REPORT

Page 4 0f 4 (marl:
Dialnusu Dhcmpnncv

_______—-——~
Primary Tumuv Six: D‘scmpancy_ __
If ,_ ___ ___.._ _
H|PAA Discrepancy
Dull/Synchronous ' 'mar; ‘ - -
_,.__.———
(all Is [cinlu]:
Reviewcrlnitian _

 

