 

 

Clinical Diaqnosis & History:
Right renal mass.

Sgecimens Snbmitted:

1:8P:Kidney, right renal mass. partial nephrectomy. I
2: SP: Kidney, right cyst, excision

3; SP: Kidney, right cyst wall, excision

 

DiAGNOSlS:
1. SP:Kidney, right renal mass, partial nephrectomy- -

Tumor Type:
Renal oeii carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade any

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3.6 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Not Identified

Rena? Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:

Tumor present at renal parenchymai margin
NonsNeopiastic Kidney:

Unremarkabie

Adrenal Gland:
Not identified

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

Staging for renai cell carcinomaloncecytome:
pTi Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

 

2. SP:Kidney,right cyst,excision-
Benign renal cortical cyst.

 

Page i of 3

 

 

3. SP: Kidney. right cyst; wall, excision-
Benlgn renal perenchyma.

   

Gross Description:

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section, labeled ”Right Renal Mess". it consists of a partial nephrectomy
specimen measuring 4.8 x 3.9 x 3.1 cm. Tne'spscimen is oriented with a black stitch labeled as "base of tumor margin", which Is
inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned to retreat a fairly well-circumscribed. tan~pink to golden yellow mess measuring

3.6 x 2.4 x 3.3 cm. Grossly at the deep resection margin the adjacent renal perenchyrna is tan-maroon and grossly unremarkable.
Tissue is submitted iorTPS. Sections are submitted.

Summary of Sections:

FSC — frozen section control (deep margin)
MAS ~ tumor representative

CAP _ capsule

2) The specimen is recelved fresh for frozen section. labeled *Right Renal Cyst". It consists of a piece of flat, tan-red soft
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm. The entire specimen is submitted.

Summary of Sections:
FSC — frozen section control
REM -- remainder of the specimen

3) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section. labeled "Right Renal Cyst Well“. It consists of a piece of tan-red soft
tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in one block.

Summary of Sections:
FSC - frozen section control

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP:Kidney, right renal mass, partial nephrectomy- I)

Block Sect. Site P63
1 ADJ “l
1 CAP “t
1 FSC 1
4 MASS 4

Part 2: 5?: Kidney. right cyst, excision -

Block Sect. Site PCs
’l FSC 'l
1 REM 1

Part 3: SP: Kidney, right cyst wall. exclslor-l

Block Sect. Site P03
1 FSC 1

 

Page 2 of 3

 

Intracperattvc Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses gluon in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoparative

consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION DlAGNOSIS: RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, FOCALLY PRESENT AT THE MARGEN. -
PERMANENT DIAGNOSiS: Same.

2) FROZEN secnon DtAGNOSlS; semen cvsr. -
PERMANENT ornenosas: Same.

3) FROZEN SECTION DlAGNOSiS: BENtGN. -
PERMANENT omenosrs: Same.

   

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

