 

PathOIOgY RCPO'Ft. .

Accession Number:F Report Status: Final
Type: Surgical P CGA"CL-4957

Specimen Type: Colon
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provider:

    
  
   
   

  
    
  
  

Resident:
Pathologi~

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "LOW ANTERIOR RESECTION":
ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE RECTUM, moderately differentiated, low grade
(4.8 cm).
Tumor extends through the muscularis into perirectal adipose tissue.
Tumor extends focally to the radial soft tissue resection margin.
Tumor extends to within 1.5 cm of the distal resection margin and
16 cm of the proximal margin.

METASTATIC ADENOCAR ' f fourteen lymph nodes (2:14).
AJCC Classification T3 N1 MX.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Rectal mass.

Operation: Low anterior resection, temp ileostomy/colectomy.
Operative Findings: Not provided.

Clinical Diagnosis: Rectal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
Ail) low anterior resection {Open and Return, and Tissue Bank).

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received fresh, and labeled with the patient's name and unit
number, and "#1. Low anterior resection (open and return and tissue bank)", and
consists of a single colectomy specimen (26.0 cm in length, 4.5 cm in diameter)
with two surgical resection margins {proximal 4.0 cm in length, inked blue;
distal 4.5 cm in length, inked black). There is a 26.0 cm in length mesentry
present along the surface of the colon. There is a single red/brown ulcerating
lesion (4.8 x 4.1 cm) located 1.5 cm from the distal surgical resection margin
and 16.0 cm from the proximal surgical resection margin. There is serosal
puckering opposite the center of the mass. No other lesions are seen in the
mucosa, which is otherwise smooth and glistening. The mass is seen to be
invading into the muscularis wall grossly. Twenty one lymph node candidates
are present in the pericolonic soft tissue, the largest measuring 0.6 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections of the tumor and normal colon are
submitted for tissue banking as well as for histologic examination.

Micro A1: Proximal surgical resection margin, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A2: Distal resection margin with tumor, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A3: Tumor with normal adjacent colonic mucosa, 1 frag, RSS.
Micro A4: Tumor with deep muscularis infiltration, 1 frag, RSS.
Micro A5: Tumor with deep muscularis invasion, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A6: Normal colonic mucosa located between tumor and proximal resection
margin, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A7: 6 lymph node candidates, 6 frags, ESS.

Micro A8: 5 lymph node candidates, 5 frags, ESS.

Micro A9: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected, 2 frags, ESS.

Micro A10: 2 lymph node candidates, 2 frags, ESS.

Micro All: 5 lymph node candidates, 5 frags, ESS.

Micro A12: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected, 2 frags, 1358.

Micro A13: 2 lymph node candidates, 2 frags, ESS.

 

    

-r:.ver.'r9-.~arwsnmn ,- [alan :5 :c:-.—:,--,-z:rz.‘qw¢mn ;.::=«--.1=a7.-: sun r-wunv.emzrv.n rte-:1 n. I w

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosistes)

related thereto.

 

 

— pagazorz

