Sgecimen Type:
1: OVARlES

2: Omenturn

Clinical Details:

No details given [EBA-314950

Macroscopic Descrip_tion:
1) Ovaries:
Two ovaries received, the larger ovary on external examination appears partly solid and parity
cystic and measures 12 x 13 x 110m and weighs more than 150091113. On external
examination there are irregular nodular and solid areas on the ovarian surface, these appear
to be areas of capsular breach. The external surface is inked black. An attached fallopian
tube is identified and measures 8cm in length and 0.50m in diameter. On slicing the larger
ovary it is partly solid and partly cystic, there are abundant papillary excrescences and
formations on the inner ovarian cyst iining and the solid areas are white and firm. The smaller
partly cystic cyary measures 7.7 x 5.5 x 30m and the attached fallopian tube measures 4cm in
length and 0.70m in diameter. On the external surface of the smaller ovary there are large,
solid/papillary areas and areas of irregularity. On slicing the ovary the inner surface shows
papillary excrescences and is irregular. The smaller ovary weighs 205.8gms.
BLOCKS: 1A: Larger ovary, area of capsular breach: 1.1pc,

lB: Larger ovary with irregular external surface: 1,2pcs.

lC-F: Larger ovary, cyst wall with solid internal projections: 1pc in each.

1G-H: Larger ovary, cyst wall with internal solid areas: 1pc in each.

1K: Larger ovary: solid area larger cyst: 1,1pc.

1L: RS larger cyst wali: 1,2pcs.

1M: RS solid area: 1,1pc.

1N: TS fallopian tube larger cyst: 1,2pcs.

1P—Q: Smaller ovary, irregular/solid papiliary areas: ipc in each.

 

 

 

 

1R: TS fallopian tube smaller ovary, including 0.40m cyst ? paratubal: 1 ,2pcs.
18: Smaller ovary, solid area: 1,1pc.
1T: , Smaller ovary, cyst wall: 1,3pcs.
1U: Smaller ovary, cyst wall: 1,2pcs. _
1V: Smaller ovary, solid area: 1,1pc. -
2) Omemum: - Will 31 iiiii
A piece of omentum measuring 23 x 5 x 10m. On slicing the omentum white nodules are
identified (query representing tumour), the largest measuring 2 x 0.7 x 1.5cm. There are in
addition muitiple smaller nodules.
BLOCKS: 2A: RS largest omental nodule: 1 ,2pcs.
ZB-C: RS other omental nodules: 2pcs in each.
2D: RS separate omental nodules: 1,1pc.
2E-F: Background omentum: 1pc in each.

Microscopic Description:

1) Ovaries:

Both ovaries show a dense infiltration of moderately atypical glandular cells forming complex
papillary and cystic structures. There is stratification of the cells lining these structures. The
cells are pleomorphic, hyperchromatic and show numerous mitotic figures. There is invasion
into the underlying stroma, with areas of necrosis and haemorrhage. Psammoma bodies are
seen. The tumour extends through the inked capsular surface margins. Both fallopian tubes
show no evidence of tumour invasion. The appearances are those of a moderately
differentiated serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma.

2) Omentum:

The omentum shows infiltration of the omental fat by atypical glandular cells forming papillary
structures, both in the nodular areas, as well as in the background omentum. The
appearances are similar to the cells in the ovarian specimens. The tumour in the iargest
nodule measures up to 19.7 mm.

The peritoneal ﬂuid contains malignant cells -

Final Diagnosis:
1-2) OVARiES, TUBES AND OMENTUM:

- GRADE 2 SEROUS PAPILLARY CYSTADENOCARCINOMA OF THE OVARIES, iN
BOTH OVARIES, EXTENDING THROUGH THE CAPSULAR SURFACE, WITH
METASTASIS IN THE OMENTUM.

a T313 Nx Mx (FIGO STAGE IIIC)

 

 

 

