HISTORY
FNA->Adenocarcinoma. Incidental finding of CXR.

MACROSCOPlC
Two specimens submitted.

1: The first specimen is labelled "left lower lobe" and consists of a lobectomy
specimen of lung measuring 180 x 100 x 30 mm. The bronchial resection margin
consists of two bronchi immediately adjacent to each other measuring 14 and 7
mm in diameter each. The main bronchial branches are patent and easily probed.
On the ante-hilar surface of the specimen there is puckering of the pleurai

surface with an underlying relatively well defined firm mass. Sectioning

reveais a relatively well circumscribed cream to yellow and focally anthracotic
pigmented tumour measuring 27 mm in maximum extent. The tumour does not appear
to involve a large bronchus. The tumour is well clear of resection margins.

No other focal lesions are identified elsewhere within the specimen. [TS of
bronchial resection margin and vascuiar resection margins—1 A; peribronchial
lymph nodes fB—fC; R8 of tumour to include overlying serosal surface tD-t F; R8
of normal appearing lung parenchyma distant from tumour~1G; sections of tumour
and normal lung taken for lung tumour research projects]

2: The second specimen is labelled "left hiiar lymph node‘l and consists of two
small pieces of pink to cream soft tissue measuring 6 and 10 mm in maximum
extent respectively. One smail firm lymph node measuring 3 mm in diameter is

ialiable. Both pieces of tissue BET-2A.]

MICROSCOPIC

1: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumourhas a
combination of patterns including acinar, papillary and cribriform patterns.
Scattered psammoma bodies are seen. Around the edge of the tumour, there is an
extensive lepidic component. The lesion is subpleural but pleurai invasion is

not identified. There is no blood vessel invasion and no lymphatic permeation

is seen. No perineurai permeation is identified. The lesion is well clear of

the bronchial resection margin. No lymph node metastases are seen. The
adjacent lung shows evidence of emphysema and focal respiratory bronchiolitis.
Distal to the tumour, there is a small area of subpleurai interstitial fibrosis

with no characteristic features. Within the section of uninvolved lung, there

is a well circumscribed non—necrotising granuloma within the interstitium and a
few further smaller more poorly formed granulomata. No polarisable material is
seen. Special stains for microorganisms will be performed. Similar poorly
formed granulomata are also present within the peribronchiai lymph nodes.

2: Sections of the lymph nodes show reactive changes only. There are a few
poorly defined aggregates of histiocytes in keeping with pooriy developed
granuiomata. There is no evidence of malignancy.

Page 107‘ 2

   

SUMMARY

Left lower lobe and left hilar lymph nodes:

1: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma; 27 mm in maximal dimension.
2: No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineural invasion present.

3: No pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial margin.

4: No lymph node metastases.

5: T1 NOMX

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT

No micro—or ' ' ' ' ' " oidal granulomata with special
stains Although these may be

representative of sarcoidosis, exclusion of other causes of sarcoidal
granulomata may be worthwhile. Clinicopathological correiation is necessary.

  

 

c.c. Lung Cancer Registry

lI—IZb'u !" - > OHEO -l 13> Z I:

