‘ _ _ . _ a;
- uum.ITJscllGﬁfgﬁ_i:§§Fi§:EA5$1,f asA-iasramﬁﬁﬁ'ilfed

Mm ....
WWWWWWWWW

tCLD‘—O “3
Cafcmm/ adrenal} Geri/La.)

M ' ' ganja
. '- ' 6,}? ., , )4aireual'é’12nd ICDr-sz” 6’74b
SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal ’ l 49L) x/eo/zs

CUNlCAL NOTES:
L) adrenal tumour ?ACC. Cushing’s syndrome.

 

 

 

MACROSCOPlC:

’Lefl adrenal tumour. The specimen consists of an adrenal gland 57 x 40 x
83mm, with associated fat 100 x 40 x 12mm. The tumour has been bisected prior
to receipt. The total weight of the specimen including the periadrenal fat is

1 109. The fat weighs approximately 309 and therefore the estimated weight of
the adrenal tumour is 809.

The cut surface of the adrenal tumour is ten and tabulated with two fool of

cystic and haemorrhagic degeneration, 12mm in maximum dimension. The capsule
appears otherwise intact. A wedge of tumour, 17 x 12 x 14mm has been removed
prior to receipt. At the edge of the lesion there is a well-circumscribed area

that is distinct from the lesion, 22 x 17 x 12mm. The cut surface of the tumour

is seen to arise from the normal adrenal. Adjacent to the larger area of
haemorrhage, is a well-circumscribed zone with a haemorrhaglc centre. 12mm in
maximum dimension. Macroscopically the lesion appears well-circumscribed.
Representative sections in 15 blocks. Green ink covers the area where tumour
was removed prior to receipt and does not indicate a true margin.

Blocks 1, 3&4: include normal adrenal gland

Blocks 2,3: paired

Blocks 5,6: haemorrhagiclnecrotic area

Block 7: additional possible area of haemorrhage

Block 8-15: additional sections of adrenal lesion

MICROSCOPIC: '

The 809 adrenal tumour is an ADRENAL CORTICAL CARCINOMA. The tumour is
composed of variably pleomorphio cells. Most tumour cells have prominent
nucleoli and some mum-nucleate tumour giant cells are present. Many of the

 

 

Ear-us" -‘

E

m

<90r0i4b€5¥“

immmaem WhﬁwﬁOAbZﬁ

 

Requesting Doctor's Information:

 

 

SPEClMEN TYPE: Adrenal —

areas of microscopic invasion into the extra-adrenal tat.

Although the bulk of the tumour is separated from the soft tissue resection
margin by an intact capsule, pseudocapsule or soft tissue plane,
microscopically carcinoma extends to involve the soft tissue margins in a few
areas. »

The adrenal away from the carcinoma is normal.

lmmunohistcchemistry of the adrenal tumour is as follows:
lGFZ: Negative

Ki~67z High proliferative index (up to 30% in areas)
Cairetinnin: Positive

lnhibin: Positive

MelanA: Positive

S~1 00: Negative

Chromogranln: Negative

SUMMARY:
Left adrenal tumour - Adrenal cortical carcinoma 809.

HEPORTlNG PATHOLOGIST:
(Electronic Signature)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it Where ’Ccltected‘ indicates Rec:

 

"Fage 2- at 2

 

 

 

aﬁﬁﬁi‘“§.&.~1w d

“<QOT‘OI—ll "ﬁOﬂlW-i

Fb0u204>2%

