UUID:6FB7C18D-27D8-4E04-BSF8-AA7EA16F8C8A
TcoA-ss-MeA-om-PR Red

acted
IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illllllllllllllll

{Hllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Reported:
.. » SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
"" ADDENDUM REPORT "”'
wag QANCER mmngg EAﬂEL

SPEClMEN SOURCE: LUNG LOBECTOMY 3 CD’O’S
SPEClMEN/BLOCK NUMBER 0. demo QOJ‘C} ho nno‘ N 05 zlwl'Z.
I

:5an Mutation: NOT DETECTED ‘ l E .. \

Results reviewed by 5‘ " “(‘5‘ sWd’ XOR C3LL3

The following polymorphism was detected: 2361g>A. C; - ll . 12 24)

Sequencing of the entire coding region and splice junction sites of axons 18-21 of the EGFR gene revealed no previously published mutations or any
sequence changes that could result in amino acid changes. However, one or more polymorphic sequence changes were discovered in the EGFR gene.
These polymorphisms are interpreted as non~pathogonic because they do not lead to amino acid changes. These polymorphisms are not expected to

have any clinical slgniﬁmnoe. As 7% of patients who respond to EGFR inhibitors do not slww mutations in exons 18~21 of EGFR gone, a negative result
does not preclude the possibility of a clinical response to EGFR inhibitors.

KEA§ Mum'gu Augﬂgﬁ

KRAS Mutation: DETECTED
(Abnormal) Results reviewed by

Based on sequence analysis. K-Rae codon 12 GG’T>GAT (612D) mutant was detected.
Lung Ca (NSCLC).ALK.FISH: SEE BELOW

Specimen Type: Paralﬁn Embedded Tumor Tissue

Clinical Indication: FlSH study for oncology

Method: FISH

Total Coils : 50

images Captured ; 2

RESULT: NEGATIVE FDR ALK REARRANGEMENT [SEE COMMENT BELOW]
lNTERPRETATlON:

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FlSH) analysis did not reveal a rearrangement of the ALK gene. However. 1-3 additional copies of the ALK region were
observed in 80% of cells. The signiﬁcance of additional copies of the ALK region is not clear.

in nomemall cell lung carcinoma. overexpression oi the ALK kinase is seen most oommonty through an inversion producing ELMMLK tusicm protein. A
small proportion of tumors (approximately 5%) with ALK rearrangement demonstrated by other methods may be missed by this study. This test is
indicated as an aid in the assessmnt of patients for whom ctizolinib (is. XALKORl) treatment is being considered. Correlation with clinical ﬁndings and

other laboratory studies is indicated.

Please expect the result of any other concurrent test in a separate report.

FlSH test was performed using a brealoapart probe speciﬁc for the ALK gene l . Awardan to the manufacturer‘s directional
insert, the cutoti'value for ALK rearrangement is 15% of lnterphase cells in parammbedded specimens. This assay has been approved by the US.

Food and Drug Administration.
Laoomtoty results reviewed and Clinical interpretation provided by

 

Test performed and reported under supervision c

 

 

 

 

Test performed at ~

Addendum Report lmued By:

 

DIAGNOSIS:

A Levelelymph nodes;
Two benign lymph nodes with non—caseating granulomalous inﬂammation, 5498 comment (0/2).

8. Level 7 lymph node:
Benign, hyperplasia (0/1).

C. Level Blyrnph nude:
Benign, hyperplasia. non-oeseating granulomatous inﬂammation, see comment (011).

O

. Right lower lobe of lung lobedomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic lynx Adenocaroinome.
. Histologic grade: Moderatoiy differentiated.
. Tumor site: Peripheral.
. Tumor focallty: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm.
Visceral pleural invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Lwnphovaacular space invasiom Not identiﬁed.
. Tumor extension: Not identiﬁed.
. Treatment affect: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 1.5 cm.
. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: 1.5 cm.
_ Tumor distance from pleural surface: Less than 0.1 cm.
Lymph Node Status (utilizing ail specimens):
. Total number of lymph nodes received: 8.
. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic ammonia: None (0/8).

Other:
1. other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Block 9 has been submitted for lung carcinoma nnxtation evaluation panel. A further report will follow.

Nm-casealing granulomatous inflammation is identiﬁed in several of the lymph notion, see comment.
Mild to moderate chronic bronchitis and patchy areas of ﬁbrosis are noted.

2. pTNM stage: pT2. ND.

mmygn'uxnmma

(alN-h

Ma

Electronic Signature:

COMMENTS:
The non-caseating granulomatous inﬂammation identiﬁed in some of the lymph nodes is of uncertain etiology however the possibility of sarcoidosis would

be, given the pattern of granuiomas identiﬁed, at the top of the list followed by infection. Clinical correlation is suggested.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I CLlNICAL HtSTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: y/c nth right lung mass
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptomisadioiogic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Level 9 lymph node
5. Level 7 lymph node
C. Level 8 lymph node
D. Right lower lobe

 
   

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in four formalin ﬁlled containers labeled with the patient’sname

A. Container A is additionally labeled 'level 9 lymph node‘ and contains two gray-black rubbery nodules consistent with enthreootic lymph nodes. They
are 0.5 and 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. The largest nodule is inked and bisected and au tissue is submitted in cassette A1 labeled

B. Container 8 is additionally labeled 'levol 7 lymph node' and contains a 1.5 cm purple-gray nodule consistentth lymph node. The specimen is
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette 81 labels:

C. Container 0 is additlonally labeled 'level a lymph node' and contains a 3.5 x 2.3 x 1.0 cm gray-black rubberv nodule consistent with anthraootic lymph
node. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes C1 through 4 labelec

D. Container D is additionally labeled 'right lower lobe‘ and contains 11.5 x 11.0 x 7.0 cm lung lobe. The pleura is purple-gray anthracotic. A 10.5 em in
length semiginous staple line is present. The pleura is remarkable for a 3.0 x 2.5 cm yellow-tan plaque like lesion and area of umbiliution consistent
with tumor. This area is inked blue. The staple line is removed and the underlying parenchyma is booty red and glistening with no discrete lesions.
Exposed vascular margins are present, as well as a 0.6 em in length x 0.9 om in diameter bronchial margin. Additional small bronchiole margins are
present within the exposed parenchyma. The largest bronchus is opened to reveal a clear mucoid lniraluminal substance. The endothelium is yellow~tan
and striated with no discrete lesions. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a 3.5 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm ill-deﬁned gray-while mass abutting the pleura at
the site of umbilication and approaching to within 1.5 cm of both the bronchial and parenchymal margins. The remainder of the parenchyma is pink-tan
spongy and congested with no additional lesions. Four black anthracotic parabronchlal nodules are identiﬁed consistent with lvmnh rind“ The” range
from 0.4 up to 03 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes D1 through 11 labeled ieslgnated
as follows: D1 and 2, bronchiole and vascular margins to include largest bronchial margin in cassette 02: cassette 03‘ mKeO. parencnymal margin.
perpendicular. 04 through 8. mass to inked pleura; 9 and 10, additional mass: 11. four whole possible parabronchial lymph nodes. Additionally, a yeIIOW.
arson and blue cassette are submitted for genomics research each labeled

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:
Special stains for acid-fast bacilli and fungi done selectively on the Level 9 lymph node demonstrates no mlcroorqggigggg

 

 

 

