   

    

l} SPECIMEN LABELED "RIGHT COLO ":
ADENOCARCINOMA (11.8 cm), poorly differentiated, with neuroendocrine
and signet ring cell features and focal mucin production.
Tumor extends through the muscularis propria and involves the visceral
peritoneum.
The proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are free of tumor.
Lymphovascular invasibn is present.
Appendix with fibrous obliteration and peri—appendiceal adhesions.
METASTATIC CARCINOMA in one of thirty two [1:32) lymph nodes.
CLINICAL DATA:
History: None given.
Operation: Rt colectomy
Clinical Diagnosis: Colon cancer

        

The specimen is received fresh, in t e rozen sec ion r , beled with the
patient's name, unit number, and "1) Rt colon (tumor bank)", and consists of a
partial colectomy specimen consisting of terminal ileum (8 cm length, 3.1 cm
diameter), colon (27 cm length, 4.5 cm diameter), appendix (4.5 cm length, 0.5
cm diameter), proximal stapled resection margin {4.1 cm), and distal stapled
resection margin (4.6 cm]. There is a red/tan, ulcerating, necrotic mass (11.8
x 5.5 x 5.0 cm) with raised, rolled borders at the ileocecal valve, extending
through the wall creating a large, matted mass within the pericolonic fat,
extending to and possibly involving the appendix. The mass is 8 cm from the
proximal stapled resection margin, and 23 cm from the distal stapled resection
margin. A tan mucosal polyp {0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm) is present 5.5 cm distal to
the aforementioned ileocecal valve mass, and comes to within 18 cm of the
distal stapled resection margin, and 17 cm of the proximal stapled resection
margin. The remaining colonic mucosa is tan/pink with normal folds. The
ileomucosa is tan/pink and velvety, with focally flattened folds adjacent to
the mass- Multiple tan/white, indurated to tan/pink, rubbery lymph nodes are
identified, ranging from 0.5—1.5 Cm in greatest dimension. Representative _
sections of the tumor and normal colon, as well as half of a lymph node are
submitted to the tumor bank for special studies.

 
  
 

Micro 1: proximal stapled resection margin, en face, 2 frag,

Micro 22 distal stapled resection margin, en face, 2 frag,

Micro 3: appendix tip — bisected, and mid appendix, 3 frag,

Micro 4: appendiceal os in relation to cecal/ileocecal mass,

Micro 5—6: ileocecal valve mass, deepest extension 2 frag,

Micro 7: mass in relation to right colon, l frag, !

Micro 8: mass in relation to ileocecal valve and t al ileum, l frag,-
Micro 9: additional colon mucosal polyp, 2 frag, -

Micro 10:

remainin half of grossly positive lymph node [remainder to bank),
1 frag. h

Micro ll: five single whole lymph nodes, 5 frag,
Micro 12: seven single whole lymph nodes, 7 frag
Micro 13: eight single whole lymph nodes, 8 frag
Micro 14: six single whole lymph nodes, 6 frag,
Micro 15: five signle whole lymph nodes, 5 frag,

  
  
  
  
     
  

   

SPECIMEN TYPE: COLON, SEGMENTEL RESECT EUR TUMOR

 

