SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number : -

Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:
Right kidney, right hand assisted laparoscopic nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Sarcomatoid features: not identiﬁed

Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrman nuclear grade 2

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.4 cm

Tumor focality: focal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or microscopic):
Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: not identiﬁed

Gerota' s fascia: not identiﬁed

Renal sinus: not identiﬁed

Major veins (renal vein or segmental branches, IVC): not identiﬁed

Ureter: not identiﬁed
Venous (large vessel): not identiﬁed
Lymphatic (small vessel): not identiﬁed

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Gerota' s fascia (nephrectomy): negative
Renal vein (nephrectomy): negative
Ureter (nephrectomy): negative

Adrenal gland: not present
Lymph nodes: none identiﬁed
A] CC Staging:

ple

pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

Comment:
The frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section was requested by-

FSAl: Right kidney, excision
- Clear ce11 renal cell carcinoma

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

right renal mass.

Gross Description:

The specimen was opened in the OR and was a 266 gram 17.0 x 9.5 x 5.3 cm kidney. The serosal surface was inked green. Bivalve of the
kidney demonstrated a well-circumscribed cystic and solid mass, 5 .4 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. Representative sections of mass submitted in FSAl.

Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Laparoscopic nephrectomy
Side of specimen: Right

Size and weight of specimen: 266 grams; 17.0 x 9.5 x 5.3 cm

Orientation: The perirenal soft tissue is inked green.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Absent

Tumor site: Mass is present adjacent to the right lower pole of pyelocalyceal system .

Tumor description: The mass is well-circumscribed with a surrounding pseudocapsule. Cut sections demonstrate a yellow/tan cystic and solid
cut surface. Possible areas of necrosis are identiﬁed.

Tumor size: 5 .4 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm.

Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent
Conﬁnement/non—conﬁnement to the kidney: Conﬁned, closest area is 0.9 cm from medial lower pole renal parenchyma.
Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Not grossly involved

Gerota' s fascia: Not grossly involved

Renal vein: Not grossly involved

Ureter: Not grossly involved

Renal Sinus: Tumor abuts renal sinus grossly, defer to light microscopy
Pelvicaliceal: Grossly adjacent to the right lower pole pelvicaliceal system
Adrenal: N/A

Other organs: N/A

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative

Renal vein: Negative

Renal artery: Negative

Ureter: Negative

Description of kidney away from tumor: The rest of the right renal parenchyma is normal in appearance without additional masses, atrophy
or scarring.

Hilar lymph nodes: Not present

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: None

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Yes, per tissue procurement.
Digital picture: No

Block Summary:
A1 - Section of ureter vein and artery margins

A2 - Mass in relation to hilar vessels

A3 - Mass in relation to hilar vessels

A4 - Mass in relation to closest green inked surgical margin
A5 - Mass in relation to collecting system

A6 - Mass in relation to collecting system and green inked renal capsule
A7 - Mass in relation to pyelocalyceal system

A8 - Grossly normal kidney

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by.

Signature
Resident Physician:

Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

