   

CGA— BA—4078

SURGEALPAIHOLOGY

Diagnosis:

A: Epiglottic mass, biopsy.

— Invasive moderately differentiated squamous cell
carcinoma with surface ulceration.

B: Left posterior false vocal cord mucosa, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

C: Left anterior false vocal cord mucosa, biopsy.
No tumor seen.

D: Anterior commissure, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

LTJ

Right anterior false cord, biopsy.
No tumor seen.

F: Right posterior false cord, biopsy.
Mild dysplasia of squamous epithelium, no invasive
carcinoma seen.

G: Left prewepiglottic space, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

E

Right pre—epiglottic space, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

1—!

Epiglottis, resection.

 

— Invasive moderately differentiated squamous cell
carcinoma present in multiple fragments of epiglottis,
surgical margins cannot be assessed from this specimen
because specimen was received fragmented, but all frozen
section margins (specimens B—H) free of tumor.

J: Lymph node, level IV, removal.
F Adipose tissue only, no tumor seen, no lymph nodes seen.

K: Lymph node, right level II, removal.
— No tumor seen in 13 lymph nodes (0/13).

L: Lymph node, right level III, removal.
w No tumor seen in 3 lymph nodes (0/3).

M: Lymph node, right level IV, removal.

— No tumor seen in 9 lymph nodes (0/9).

N: Lymph node, left level I, removal.
— No tumor seen in 4 lymph nodes (0/4).
— Submandibular gland present with no tumor seen.

0: Lymph node, left level II, removal.

Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 2 of 6 lymph nodes,
size of largest metastasis 5.0 cm, with extracapsular
extension of tumor identified.

I

P: Lymph node, left level III, removal.
- No tumor seen in four lymph nodes (0/4).

Q: Lymph node, left level IV, removal.
— Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 2 of 13 lymph nodes
(2/13).

R: Lymph node, left level V, removal.
— Adipose tissue only, no tumor seen, no lymph nodes seen.

 

S: Proximal internal jugular vein, removal. :
— Vein with no tumor seen. 3

Comment:

The total lymph node count on the right is no tumor seen in
25 lymph nodes (0/25), and the total lymph node count on
the left is metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 4 of 27
lymph nodes (4/27).

lntraoperative Consultation:
A frozen section was requested by Dr.

FSAl: Epiglottic mass, biopsy.
— Squamous cell carcinoma.

FSBl: Left posterior false cord mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSCl: Left anterior false cord mucosa, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSDl: Low anterior commissure, biopsy

— No tumor seen, cautery artifact

FSEl: Right anterior false cord, biopsy
— No tumor Seen

FSFl: Right posterior false cord, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSGl: Left pre~epiglottic space, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSHl: Right pre—epiglottic space, biopsy
H No tumor seen
Clinical History:

Gross Description:
Received from the frozen section team are appropriately

 

labeled yellow cassettes

containing a 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.1 cm white/red soft tissue
fragment. The largest of two pieces submitted in block
FSAl, the remainder in block A1.

Container B is labeled "left posterior false cord". It
holds a 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSBl-

Container C is labeled "left anterior false cord". It holds
a 0.6 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSCl, -.

Container D is labeled "anterior commissure". It holds a
0.4 X 0.3 x 0.2 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSDl, -

Container E is labeled "right anterior false cord". It
holds a 0.2 x 0.2 X 0.2 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSEl, -

Container F is labeled "left posterior false cord”. It
holds a 0.3 x 0.2 X 0.2 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSFl, -

Container G is labeled "left preHepiglottic space". It
holds a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm,
white/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSGl, -

Container H is labeled "right pre-epiglottic space". It
holds a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm,
white/red/tan, soft tissue fragment. FSHI, -

Container 1 is labeled "epiglottis". It holds a 5.0 x 3.2 x
0.5 cm, aggregate of

multiple disrupted and unorientable re/tan soft tissue
fragments. Identifiable

mucosa is red/tan, smooth, glistening, focally
erythematous, focally roughened,

containing an irregular 1.0 x 0.5 cm red/tan pediculated
nodular lesion.

Identifiable cautery edges are marked with black ink as the
surgical margin.

Sectioning reveals a tan/pink, smooth cut surface, with no
additionally identified gross lesions.

 

I1—I2 H black inked margins from two largest fragments

I3 - additional fragment with black inked cautery

14—15 — additional smaller fragment containing cautery,
serially sectioned

I6—I9 — remaining sections of two largest fragments, -

Container J is labeled “Level IV node". It holds a 2.1 X
0.5 x 0.2 cm, irregularly—
shaped, yellow/pink soft tissue fragment. Jl, -

Container K is labeled "right level II neck contents". It 5
holds a 6 x 2. x 0.3 cm, irregularly—shaped, pink/tan soft

tissue fragment. A portion of vascular structure is

identified and appears grossly unremarkable. Five lymph

node candidates are identified and submitted in block K1

and K2, with representative section of vasculature and

additional representative soft tissue submitted in K3.

Container L is labeled ”right level III neck contents". It
holds a 3.5 x 2.1 x 1.2 cm, irregularlyashaped, pink/tan
aggregate of soft tissue fragments. A portion of

grossly unremarkable vasculature is identified. No lymph
node candidates are identified. The specimen is submitted
entirely in Ll—L3, -.

Container M is labeled "right level IV neck contents". It
holds a 5.0 x 2.5 x 0.3 cm, irregularly-shaped, tan/pink
soft tissue fragment. Three lymph node candidates
are identified and submitted in Ml with additional
representative soft tissue submitted in blocks M2 and M3.

Container N is labeled "left neck contents level I". It
holds a 4.7 x 4.2 x 1.0 cm, irregularlywshaped, pink/tan
soft tissue fragment containing a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm,
intact, tan/pink, lobulated, ovoid fragment, consistent
with a submandibular gland. Sectioning reveals an area of
hemorrhage but no other grossly identifiable lesion.

Six lymph node candidates are identified. Representative
section of the submandibular gland is submitted in N1, the
six lymph node candidates are submitted in block N2.
Additional representative soft tissue in N3 and N4.

Container 0 is labeled "left neck contents level II”. It
holds a 6.0 X 4.5 x 2.6 cm, irregularly—shaped, pink/tan,
firm, and solid soft tissue fragment, containing

multiple areas of red/brown muscle. A 5.0 x 4.1 x 2.4 cm

ovoid lymph node is identified and is serially sectioned to
reveal a white/tan, softened and grossly positive cut
surface. Three additional lymph node candidates are
identified. Representative section of the largest lymph
node is submitted in block Ol, the remaining three lymph
nodes are submitted in block 02, representative skeletal
muscle is submitted in block 03, additional representative
soft tissue is submitted in block 04.

Container P is labeled "left neck contents level III". It
holds a 7.0 x 4.2 x 1.0 cm, irregularlymshaped, red/tan
soft tissue fragment, the majority of which is

red/brown, soft and grossly unremarkable skeletal muscle.
Seven lymph node candidates are identified and submitted in
block Pl, representative skeletal muscle is submitted in
block P2, additional representative soft tissue is
submitted in block P3 and P4.

Container Q is labeled "left neck contents level IV". It
holds a 6.8 x 4.5 x 1.8 cm, red/tan, soft tissue fragment,
the majority of which is composed of red/brown, soft and
grossly unremarkable skeletal muscle. A large portion of
vascular structure is identified and appears grossly
unremarkable. Thirteen lymph node candidates are identified
and submitted in Ql—Q3. Representative sections of muscle
and vasculature are submitted in block Q4.

Container R is labeled "left neck contents level V". It
holds a 4.0 x 3.0 x 0.4 cm, irregularly—shaped,
pink/yellow, soft tisse fragments, containing a portion of
red/brown, grossly unremarkable skeletal muscle. Two lymph
node candidates are identified submitted in R1, additional
representative soft tissue is submitted in R2, and
representative section of muscle is submitted in R3.

Container S is labeled "proximal internal jugular vein". It
holds a 0.5 x 0.2 X 0.1 cm, white/pink aggregate of two
soft tissue fragments. 81, NTR.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by -

The frozen section diagnoses are confirmed in that no
invasive carcinoma is seen in specimens 8—H, and specimen A
shows squamous cell carcinoma. Mild dysplasia is seen
on the permanent sections of specimen F, which was not seen

 

