UUID:5 - -
22:61:53- BTBF _472F -908C-DBBDBBB7C210

muumilulluuuliliii‘liﬁiiiiiiﬁllll llllll'liﬁliiiiiltad
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllll
lll llllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllﬂlll'mll’l'l‘l'llﬂlllllll

Macroscopic examination :

Piece weighing 1208 g thymectomy fresh and measuring 19 x 17 x 8 cm. it
extended by a pulmonary resection Iingula measuring 8 x 5 x 2 cm . When cut , it
is a yellowish white tumor lobulated showing necrotic and remodeling

a small yellowish nodule.

Lymph node latero— tracheal top right measuring 1.5 cm in diameter.

Microscopic examination :

1) Thymectomy :

Many samples were taken ( 1A to 1D ) . The tumor has an architecture

lobulated . It comprises an epithelial cell proliferation primarily

fusiform . These cells are grouped together in small bundles . They are arranged
also small beaches. Lymphocyte contigent is also abundant enough

mixed with epitheiial contigent. Presence of some beaches fibrosis with remodeling
inflammatory with tablecloths foamy histiocytes . No outbreak of differentiation
medulla. Presence of a range of tumor necrosis . Presence of some clear spaces
perivascular (1 B ) . The tumor is highly infiltrative and invades the lung parenchyma
(1 E) . The limits of resection inked in green appear microscopically healthy .

Some areas appear much richer in epithelial cells with a

scarcity of accompanying lymphocytes.

After immunohistochemistry , epithelial cells express cytokeratin KL1
and focally CD20. However, they are negative for CD5 and CD117 .

2) Lymph node latérotrachéal top right :

This is a little modified lymph node . No histological evidence of
malignancy.

Conclusion :
Type AB thymoma in 19 cm major axis , with widely invasive invasion in the
lung parenchyma stage 3 according to the classiﬁcation of Masaoka . resection

surgical complete.
12;» 0-3:

QIWVWTWJ’gWB/W’J" FSS‘Q/ﬁ
5.31,: JMW 0.3 7 ‘7
' (9,40 415L114

‘ Nu
smut: / / g? i m

Diagnosis Discrepancy

Primary Tumor Sit: Discre ancy

H l? AA Dist! Epancy

Prior Malignancy History ‘

Dual/Synchronous a mad I q
Ease is (circle): UALIF . I
Reviewer lnitiAls Date Revrewed: I

 

  

