.TCGA—CS—5395

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

-
_
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

I. Right parietal primary tumor: GLIAL NEOPLASM WITH OLiGODENDROCYTlC
FEATURES AND ELEVATED PROLIFERATION INDEX, SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION,
SEE NOTE '

2. Right parietal: GLIAL NEOPLASM WITH OLiGODENDROCYTIC FEATURES AND
ELEVATED PROLIFERATION INDEX, SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION, SEE NOTE

Comment:

While many of areas of this tumor demonstrate features of an
oligodendroglioma, there is no area demonstrating the classic tightly
packed, honeycomb-like architecture of an oligodendroglioma with
numerous perinuclear halos. In addition, perinuclear halos are
relatively rare in this tumor. This may be due to the fact that ail of
the tissue was frozen and therefore the classic morphology may have
been disrupted. As a result, a definitive diagnosis of
oligodendroglioma cannot be made reliably. If this tumor were an
astrocytoma, the presence of mitoses would require a diagnosis of an
anaplastic astrocytoma, grade III (WHO scale). However, if this were
an oligodendroglioma, the presence of mitoses would lead to a diagnosis
of oligodendroglioma, grade II (WHO scale). In any case, the
proliferation index is relatively high for a grade II

oligodendroglioma. In fact, oligodendrogliomas with proliferation
indices of greater than 5% are associated with a significantly poorer
prognosis than those with proliferation indices less than 5% (l ).
Therefore, regardless of lineage, this tumor is iikely to behave more
aggressively than a typical grade ii oligodendroglioma. Genetic
analysis for the 1p, 19q deletion seen in many prognosticaily favorable
oligodendroglial tumors is pending and when completed, a separate
report will be issued.

_

 

 

 

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Microscopic Description:

The tumor consists of an infiltrative and moderately pleomorphic
proiiferation of glial ceiis with relatively round nuclei. In some

areas, there are perinuclear halos. There is a fine capillary network
that in some areas displays a chicken-wire pattern. Scattered mitoses
are present, however, there is no endothelial proliferation or

necrosis. lmmunohistochemistry for the proliferation antigen Ki67 was
performed as follows: Nine 250 x 250 micron ﬁelds were counted and the
percentage of labeled nuclei determined. More than 1,000 cells were
counted. The proliferation index ranged from 10.5% to 18.4% with an
overall average of 13.6%.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:

1. Right parietal primary tumor: Favor glial neoplasm. Severe
freezing artifact. Final deferred.

2. Right parietal: Consistent with glial neoplasm. No anapiastic
features on frozen section.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

Right parietal primary tumor

 

Source of Specimen:
1: Right parietal primary tumor
2: Right parietal

1. Right parietal primary tumor: Received fresh in a specimen
container labeled with the patient's name and "right parietal primary
tumor" are two fragments of white-tan soft tissue measuring 1 x 0.8 x
0.3 cm and 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. Frozen sections are prepared and the
entire specimen is submitted for permanent section in one cassette.
(There is no frozen section control as the block was exhausted in
frozen section preparation).

2. Right parietal: Received fresh for frozen section in a specimen
container labeled with the patient's name are 3 fragments of tan-pink
soft tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. Frozen sections
are prepared and the entire specimen is submitted for permanent section
in two cassettes as foliows:

A. frozen section control

B. remainder of specimen

Histoiogy Laboratory

H&E

Part 1: Right parietal primary tumor
' RECUT

UNSTAINED

 

_
_
IMMUNOPATHOLOGY REPORT

EVALUATION:

lmmunohistochemistry for the proliferation antigen Ki67 was performed
as follows: Nine 250 x 250 micron fields were counted and the
percentage of labeled nuclei determined. More than 1,000 cells were
counted. The proliferation index ranged from i0.5% to 18.4% with an
overall average of 13.6%.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

 

