 

WID:B4025F42-46CB-4IME-ABB‘-DBF701615F14

TCGA-ZH-AEYI-GlA-PR Redacted w"- a i g ”
III||||IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll , ,1 4 my) D ' a .
IIIHHIIIIIIIII IllllllllllllllllulllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIII SURG|CAL PATHOLOGY GM” “QWWWL’ W013
Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂlllllllllllllll Case Number : {it :Mmivz/mle ﬁlm;
Diagnosis: F313.4Aﬁhq

A: Liver lesion, "Level 5", excision

— Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, of intrahepatic
bile ducts (primary hepatic cholangiocarcinoma), 4.5 mm

— Carcinoma is less than 1 mm from inked parenchymal margin

— Dysplasia of the intraductal biliary epithelium (see comment)

B: Liver, Segment 8, excision

- Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, of intrahepatic
bile ducts (primary hepatic cholangiocarcinoma), at least two
separate foci by gross examination, 0.4 and 0.8 cm

— Inked parenchymal margin (definitive margin) positive for
carcinoma (B2)

— Dysplasia of the intraductal biliary epithelium and
intraductal biliary papillary carcinoma in situ, mutlifocal

C: Liver, Segments 2—5, partial hepatectomy

— Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, of intrahepatic
bile ducts (primary hepatic cholangiocarcinoma), at least 11.2
cm by gross measurement

— Dysplasia of the intraductal biliary epithelium and
intraductal biliary papillary carcinoma in situ, mutlifocal

- Inked parenchymal margin is extensively positive for invasive
carcinoma (C1)

— Bile duct margin is positive for dysplasia (C9)

— Invasive carcinoma extends into perihepatic fibroadipose
tissue

- Lymphovascular space invasion is identified

— AJCC stage: pT3 le (see comment)

U

° Lymph nodes, perihepatic, excision
One of eleven lymph nodes positive for metastatic
adenocarcinoma (1/11)
- Size of metastasis is 0.6 cm
— Extracapsular extension identified

Comment:

The liver displays a spectrum of intraductal biliary neoplasia.
In some bile duct profiles the epithelium is dysplastic without
papillary structure formation. In other bile duct profiles,
intraductal biliary papillomatosis is present as multifocal

papillary lesions. Intraductal papillary carcinoma is

considered to be to be the in situ lesion for the invasive
cholangiocarcinoma, and is related to the pancreatic intraductal
mucinous neoplasm. Dysplasia of the bile duct epithelium without
papillomatosis most likely is part of the same neoplastic
process in this case. The invasive tumor does not have papillary
architecture, and is a conventional gland—forming
adenocarcinoma. Invasive carcinoma is present as large mass
lesions/nodules (mass forming subtype).

Extensive peri—ductal invasion (carcinoma spread along intact
biliary tree) is not identified. The tumor is staged as a

pathologic T3 because of invasion into perihepatic fibroadipose
tissue at the round ligament.

Clinical History:

—year—old female with intrahepatic malignant neoplasm
consistent with cholangiocarcinoma.

Gross Description:
Received are four formalin—filled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "Level 5 liver lesion." It
holds a 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm wedge—shaped fragment of gray/tan
liver which is partially covered with a smooth capsule. The
parenchymal surface is inked black and the specimen is
sectioned to reveal a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm circumscribed white
subcapsular nodule abutting the black inked parenchymal margin.

The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in
block Al,

Container B is additionally labeled "Segment 8 liver." The
requisition states: stitch marks definitive segment 8 margin.
It holds a 3.1 gram, 2.4 x 2.2 x 1.7 cm friable fragment of
liver tissue with two sutures present on one surface
designating definitive margin. This surface is inked black, and
the opposite surface is inked red for identification purposes.
The specimen is sectioned perpendicular to the black inked
margin and entirely submitted in blocks B1—B5.

Sectioning reveals two white circumscribed nodules which are 0.4
and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. Each nodule abuts the red
inked margin opposite the sutured margin. The smaller nodule
comes within 0.2 cm of the black inked sutured margin

(B3), and the larger nodule comes within 0.3 cm of the black
inked sutured margin (B1).

Block Summary:
B1-B5,

Container C is additionally labeled "Liver, Segments 2—5." It
consists of a 545 gram, 18 x 13 x 5 cm partial hepatectomy
specimen composed of Segments 2-5. The capsule is brown/gray,
focally plaque—like. The parenchymal margin is inked blue. There
is a small amount of attached fat along the inferior edge of
Segment 5. Along the medial edge of the parenchymal margin there
is a 3.4 x 2.9 cm fragment of fibromembranous tissue and
cauterized fat. This area is adherent upon the capsule.
Sectioning demonstrates a dominate nodule surrounded by

multiple butting nodules off its edge and within the remainder
of the parenchyma. The dominate nodule is 11.2 x 9.8 x 4.4 cm.
The smaller nodule within the parenchyma and subcapsular range
from 0.1 to 4 cm in greatest dimension. The closest approach to
the parenchymal margin (inked black) is 0.2 cm. The tumor has a
solid gritty yellow/tan cut surface with areas of firm,

white tissue at the periphery. The surrounding hepatic

parenchyma is homogeneous tan/gray with no micronodular pattern
identified.

Tumor and normal are given to Tissue Procurement.

Block Summary:

C1 — tumor nodules at closest approach to black inked
parenchymal margin
C2—C3 — fibromembranous tissue adherent near surgical margin

C4—C5 — additional section near adherent fatty tissue at round
ligament insertion

C6 — edge of tumor and large caliber lumina

C7—C8 — additional sections of tumor
C9-C11 — additional sections, en face, from surgical margin,
lumina

Container D is additionally labeled "perihepatic lymph node." It
consists of a 3.7 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm aggregate of cauterized
yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue which is dissected for lymph node
candidates. Lymph node candidates up to 3.1 cm in greatest
dimension are identified.

Block summary:

D1 — four lymph node candidates

D2 — two lymph node candidates

D3 — one bisected lymph node candidate
D4—D5 — one sectioned lymph node candidate
A small amount of fat remains in formalin.

 

