UUID:OSIMQOB-1773-4BE5-8744-BC61092D3A14
TCGA-MT-ASlw-ﬂlA—PR Redacted

Ill|||||llllllll|||||llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllI|||||||||llllll
Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IllIllllllllllllllllllllIIIllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ,CA, a /}

TEST(S): WW», 5- ML J No:

1 Slide, 6 5070/5
3J1: ~+m€(l_ ~05 can. 6]

FINAL DIAGNOSIS: /~/

' m/ai/I?
Tonsil, left fossa, biopsy

- Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately-differentiated

(keratinizing).

COMMENT:
We agree with the referring pathologist's report and appreciate the

opportunity to review this case.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

The patient is 3 year—old female with newly diagnosed tonsil cancer.

GROSS:

Received one stained slide labeled) and a copy of the referring pathologist's report with patient
identifying information. One slide is returned.

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination is performed.

riterh - '
)lagnnsrs Discrepancy
r S

 

‘rimnry Tum it: Discre ﬁ‘ﬂi ' N
‘ pan:
"FAA m y" ‘"

 
 
    

  

-- ﬂaws! iii/.441 i.

“cw”— T“"T‘—}M"

/ J-iylﬁn‘sn" "

SPECIMEN(S):

A: Wide local excision left RMT and tonsillar fossa
B: Left anterior RMT margin

C: Superior buccal margin

0: Maxillary tuberosity

E: Superior medial palatal margin

F: Tongue base

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
A. Wide local excision left RMT and tonsillar fossa:
- Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, invasive.
- Tumor size: 2.0 x 1.8 x0.7 cm (Maximum depth of invasion: 0.7 cm)
- Margins: All margins free oftumor.
- Closest, deep margin at 0.1 cm from tumor.

- No evidence of vascular or perineural invasion.

B. Left anterior RMT margin:

— No evidence of high-grade dysplasia or malignancy.

C. Superior buccal margin:

- No evidence of high-grade dysplasia or malignancy.

D. Maxillary tuberosity:

— No evidence of high-grade dysplasia or malignancy.

E. Superior medial palatal margin:

- No evidence of high~grade dysplasia or malignancy.

F. Tongue base:

- No evidence of high-grade dySplasia or malignancy.

COMMENT:

All frozen section diagnoses are confirmed on permanent sections.

CLINICAL HISTORY:

The patient is a year-old female with a history of tonsil cancer.

GROSS:
Received are six containers labeled with the patient‘s name

and medical record number. All tissue was received fresh.

A. The first container is additionally labeled "wide local excision,
left retromolar trigone and tonsillar fossa" consists of a 4.0 x 2.7 cm
portion of tan-red rubbery mucosa and submucosa tissue which is excised

to a depth of 1.2 cm. The surgeon is present in the gross room and

oriented the specimen. A 2.0 x 1.8 cm ulcerated and ill-defined firm
mass is present on the mucosal surface. The specimen is inked as
follows: Anterior = blue, superior = green, lateral: red, medial:
orange, deep = black. On sectioning, the mass measures up to 0.7 cm in
thickness and is less than 0.1 cm from the deep margin. The mass is 0.2
cm to lateral, 1.0 cm to medial, 1.3 cm to anterior, and 0.9 cm to
superior margin. Representative tissue was procured for potential

future studies from specimen A.

Summary of sections: Representative sections:
A1 - anterior margin, perpendicular.
A2—A4 - mass full thickness with medial and lateral margins. =

A5 — mass with superior margin, perpendicular.

B. The next container is additionally labeled "B - left anterior
retromolar trigone margin" and consists of a 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm tan-pink

soft tissue, entirely submitted for frozen section and remnant in BlFS.

C. The next container is additionally labeled "C - superior buccal
margin" and contains a 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm tan-pink soft tissue, entirely

submitted for frozen section as remnant C1FS.

D. The next container is additionally labeled "0 - maxillary
tuberosity" and contains a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm tan soft tissue. Entirely

submitted for frozen section remnant in DlFS.

E. The next container is additionally labeled ”E - superomedial palatal
margin" contains a 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm tan-pink soft tissue, entirely

submitted for frozen section remnant in ElFS.

F. The next container is additionally labeled "F — tongue base" and
contains a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm tan-red soft tissue, entirely submitted

for frozen section remnant in F1FS.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSlS:

BFSl: Oral cavity, left anterior right molar trigone margin excision -
"No evidence of malignancy."

CF51: Oral cavity, superior buccal margin — "No evidence of high grade
dySplasia or malignancy."

DFSl: Oral cavity, maxillary tuberosity excision — "No evidence of high
grade dysplasia or malignancy."

EFSl: Oral cavity, superomedial palatal margin excision - "No evidence
of high grade dysplasia or malignancy."

FFSl: Oropharynx, tongue base, excision - "No evidence of malignancy."

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic examination is performed.

