UUID:89891821-AF8C-416
TCGA-HC -A6AS —B

Ill llllllllliiiiiliiiiilllliillll

s-sz7a-nsrcr714597r

 

iliiliiililllllllilllﬁﬁiiiliilm

iié’ﬂ iilllllilllillilllillillilililiilill ‘
Re: pm... iii iililliilii iilliilil i ilii i ii i ii i iilﬂiliililll illliiilllllill ii i l lil

 

 

 

Collected:
Received:

 

Reported:
S

 

"GCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right and left pelvic lymph nodes; excision:
No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in ﬁve lymph nodes (0/5).
B. Prostate; radical prostatectomy;
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histologic type: Prostatlc adenocarcinoma.
. Prostate size: 41 gram, 4.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm.
. Tumor quantitation: Tumor occupies approximately 1-3% of the prostate gland volume, right side.
. Gleason grade:
a. Primary pattern: 3I5.
b. Secondary pattern: 45.
c. Total Gleason score: 7/10.

awn-

5. Extraprostatic extension: Not identified.

6. Seminal vesicle involvement: Not identiﬁed.

7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.

8. High grade PIN: Present.

9. Treatment effect: Not identified.
Surglcal Margin Status:

1. Margins uninvolved: Surgical margins including base, apex, and inked prostate margins are negative for tumor.
Lymph Node Status:

. Total number of lymph nodes received: 5 pelvic node (see specimen A).

. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic mrcinoma: 0 (015).
than

. Perineural invasion present.

pTNM stage: T2a NO.

N—i

Electronic signature:

CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Prostate CA.
Postoperative Diagnosis;
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
A. Right and left pelvic lymph nodes.
B. Prostate, right yellow, left bladt.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in two formalin ﬁlled containers each labeled with the patient name

A. A is additionally designated #1 and consists of a 4 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. aggregate of yellow tubular adipose tissue within which are ﬁve possible lymph
nodes ranging from 0.4 to 3 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are submitted entirely in cassettes A1-A6 as follows: A1 are three possmle

lymph nodes submitted in toto; A2 and 3 is one Iym

 

posterior) cm. prostate with attached bilateral semi
deferens is 4 cm. in length by 0.5 cm. in diameter.

B. Part B is additionally designated #2 and consists of a 40.9 gram (following tissue procurement). 4 (left to right) x 4 (apex to base) x 3 (anterior to
nal vesieels and vas deferens. The right seminal vesical is 5.1 x 2 x 1.2 cm. and the right was

ph node bisected and A4 through 6 is the largest lymph node trisected.

The leit seminal veeiml is 5.2 x 2 x 1.1 cm. and the left vas deferens is 2.5 cm. in length by 0.5 cm. in

diameter. On the requisition a stains mat the prostate

 

is inked as follows: nght is yellow and leit is black, however, the prostate is actually inked right

 

black, left yellow. The prostate has been previously sectioned for tissue procurement. The specimen is further sectioned from apex to base to reveal a
centralvzone that is pink-tan and smooth. The peripheral zone is pink-tan and smooth. in the base of the prostate is a 1 x 1 x 0.6 cm. white-tan area of
intimation that is abutting the right posterior aspect. The seminal vesioals are free of tumor and representative sections are submitted in cassettes B1 .
B15 as follows: BI and 82 is the apical margin coned and then radially sectioned: BS is the base margin coned and then radially sectioned: B4 and 5 is
the apex ofthe prostate bisected: I36 and B7 is the mid prostate bisected; BB through 11 is the base of the prostate to include the possible lesion
submitted nght anterior. right posterior, left anterior, left posterior. 312 is additional right posterior base to include possible mass; B1 3 is the seminal
vesicalsat the point of attachment bisected; 314 is right seminal vesicai and B1 5 is left seminal vesical. Additionally there are three research cassettes
' All cassettes are labeled

     
 
   
 
     
    
 
 

(‘rlteril
Diagnosis
Tumor SIKE

  

HIPAA
Prior

Car: is

Revmwd

