ICD’0’3 (x4303
QWW W, N”; 94745
Srh : W“ 6’54] 3/9/l‘

/«/

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNO318:

A. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY. SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Fallopian tube with focal tubal intraepithelial carcinoma (See synoptic report)
- Ovary with corpora albicantia and multifocal reactive lymphoid aggregates

B. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma with lymphatic space invasion, high grade serous
type, from endometrial primary ‘
- Mullerlan inclusion cysts
- Fallopian tube with tubal intraepithelial carcinoma involving fimbriated en

C. UTERUS WITH CERVIX, TOTAL HYSTERECTOMY: ‘
- Cervix:
- Endocervical and ectocervical stroma diffusely involved by high grade
serous adenocarcinoma
- Lymphatic space invasion present
- Endometrium:
- Uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC) with diffuse involvement of
endometrium'with'peripﬁeral endometrial intraepithelial carcinoma
- Background atrophic changes
- Myometrium:
- Diffusely superﬁcial and deep myoinvasion by high grade serous
adenocarcinoma (full thickness involvement to serosa)
- Lymphatic space invasion present, extensive
- Monckeberg’s vascular medial calcifications

- Serosa:
- Involved by high grade serous adenocarcinoma (full thickness involvement
to serosa)

- Anterior inked margin positive

D. OMENTUM #1, OMENTECTOMY: J"
- Metastatic uterine papillary serous carcinoma UUID:AAFIBSBJ-MOD-4802-BF59-95500605950A
- Reactive mesothelial hyperplasia TCGA'AS'A1°”'°1A'PR REdail'ICEd

lllHllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
E. OMENTUM #2, OMENTECTOMY: iiiiiii" I I iililiiilii

- Metastatic uterine papillary serous carcinoma ii iiiiiiiii linliliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

I II n
_ Reactivemesomena. hyperpm mmummmuuu llllllllllllIlllllllllllllllll

SYNOPTIC REPORT:
Applies To:

 

Patient Case(s):

Copy For :
Page 1 or 4

 

A : LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

B : RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

C : UTERUS AND CERVIX

D: OMENTUM 1

E : OMENTUM 2

Macroscopic

Specimen Type: Uterus
Right ovary
Left ovary

Other Organs Present:
Procedure:

Specimen Integrity:
Lymph Node Sampling:

Histologlc Type:
Histologlc Grade:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:
Myometrial Invasion:

Involvement of Cervix:
Extent of Involvement

of Other Organs:

Marglns:

Lymphovascular Invasion:

Pathologic Staging (p

Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
Number of pelvic lymph
nodes examined:
Number of pelvic lymph
nodes involved:

Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes examined:
Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes Involved:
Number of common iliac
lymph nodes examined:
Number of common iliac

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube

Omentum

None

Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—
oophorectomy

Intact hysterectomy specimen

No lymph nodes present

Microscopic

Serous adenocarcinoma

<33: Poorly differentiated

Corpus

Fundus

Lower uterine segment

Isthmus

Greatest dimension: 52cm

Dimensions: 5.2 x 5 x 3cm

Tumor extends through the entire uterine wall to serosal
surface

Invasion of cervical stromal connective tissue

Left ovary
Tumor involves serosal aspect
Present

TNM [FIGOD AJCC 7th Edition 2010

pT3a [IIIA]: Tumor involves serosa and/or adnexa (direct
extension or metastasis)

pNX: Cannot be assessed

0

0

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 2 ol 4

lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): pMi [IVB]: Distant metastasis
Site(s): Omentum

HlSTORY:
Pre-op diagnosis: CA endometrial

MiCROSCOPIC FINDINGS:
See diagnosis.

GROSS:

A. LT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient‘s name, designated "It tube and ovary". and received in formalin is an intact
adnexa. The tortuous fallopian tube measures 4.0 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 cm in diameter to
0.9 cm in diameter. It has a fimbriated end. The overlying mesosalpinx is smooth and red—purple. Cut
surface demonstrates a patent lumen lined with delicate pink-tan mucosa, The ovary measures 1.4 x 0.8
x 0.5 cm and has a smooth pink-yellow capsular surface. Cut surface demonstrates a single corpus
albicans measuring 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted.

A1 . Proximal and mid fallopian tube cross sections and entire ﬁmbriated tip - multiple

A2. Half of bisected ovary ~ 1

A3. Additional tissue - multiple

8. RT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name. designated "rt tube and ovary". and received in formalin is an intact
adnexa. The tortuous ﬁmbriated fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.3 to 0.5 cm
in diameter. The overlying mesosalpinx is smooth pink-tan and unremarkable. The cut surface
demonstrates a patent pinpoint lumen lined with delicate tan papiliiferous mucosa. The attached ovary
measures 1.8 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The capsular surface is pink and yellow. The cut surface demonstrates
unremarkable ovarian parenchyma. Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:

BI. Proximal and mid fallopian tube cross sections and entire ﬁmbriated tip - multiple
82. Entire bisected ovary - 2
BS. Entirely submitted additional tissue - multiple

C. UTERUS WITH CERVIX

Labeled with the patient's name. designated "uterus and cervix“, and received fresh for intraoperative
consultation is a uterus and attached cervix. The uterus measures 7.3 cm in length, 5.1 cm cornu to
cornu. and 5.0 cm anterior to posterior. The cervix measures 2.6 cm in length and 3.6 cm in maximum
transverse dimensions. The ectocervix is pink to red and granular. Entirely ﬁlling the endometrial cavity
is a large exophytic mass measuring 5.2 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm. The mass grossly extends into the cervix and is
located approximately 1.0 cm from the as on the anterior side and 1.5 cm from the as on the posterior
side. The serosa overlying the uterine corpus is smooth pink-red unremarkable. Approximately 50% of
the mass has a friable red-brown necrotic cut surface. The muscular uterine wall ranges from 0.6 to 1.8
cm. The point of attachment of the mass is on the right well. The mass invades to the serosal edge on
the right side. The small amount of uninvolved myometrium is rubbery and pink~tan. The uninvolved
endometrium is smooth and pink-tan, Representative sections are submitted.

Ink key:
Black - Anterior.
Blue - Posterior.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 4

Red - Cervical end of lower uterine segment.

Slide key:

Cl. Anterior cervix - 1

C2. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1

03. Posterior cervix - 1

C4. Posterior lower uterine segment - 1

05-08. Anterior myometrium with mass and serosa - 1 each

09, C10. Uninvolved endomyometrium with serosa to mass - 1 each
Cit, 012. Posterior myometrium with serosa and mass - 1 each

D. OMENTUM #1

Labeled with the patient's name, designated "omentum #1", and received in formalin is a fragment of
ﬁnely lobulated yellow adipose tissue consistent with omentum measuring 7.6 x 6.0 x 1.0 cm. Masses
are not identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted.

D1. Multiple

E. OMENTUM #2

Labeled with the patient's name. designated "omentum #2". and received in formalin is a fragment of
ﬁnely lobulated yellow adipose tissue consistent with omentum measuring 7.2 x 4.5 x 1.1 cm. Masses
are not identified. Representative sections are submitted.

E1, Multiple

Gross dictated b1 ‘

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

C. UTERUS AND CERVIX, GROSS EXAMINATION:
- Bulky necrotic endometrial tumor with gross extrusionlinvolvement of cervix
- NOTE: Portion of tumor given for research purposes (TCGA)

A AND B. LEFT AND RIGHT ADNEXA. GROSS EXAMINATION:
- No gross tumor seen

I have personally examined the Specimen. interpreted the results. reviewed the report and signed it electronically.

     
 
 

Tumor

   

rlIPAA

 
  
   

ca :9 5.
Review er

 

(w M ll. 3
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ‘ .
"this report includes immunohlslochemic“ “-‘ -‘:--- ... “ ~ -- - .. . ._,._ ..._..--..;-.--.....r..-. M... an... new.--“ New,”
performance characteristics determined b; , _ g
immunohislochemical tests have not been cleared or approved by the U 5. Food and Drug Annunciation (FDA), and FDA approval 15 not recurred.

Page 4 of 4

