Case Number : -

 

Surgical Pathology Report
Diagnosis:

A: Right base of tongue, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

B: Left inferior pharyngeal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

C: Right superior pharyngeal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

D: Right neck soft tissue margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

E: Lymph node, right Level 2A, removal
- No tumor seen in four lymph nodes (0/4).

F: Lymph node, right supraclavicular, removal
- No tumor seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).

G: Lymph node, right Level 2, removal
- No tumor seen in four lymph nodes (0/4).

H: Lymph node, right neck, Level 3, removal
- No tumor seen in fourteen lymph nodes (0/ 14).

I: Lymph node, right neck, Level 4, removal
- No tumor seen in eight lymph nodes (0/8).

J: Lymph node, left Level 1B, removal
- No tumor seen in two lymph nodes (0/2).

K: Lymph node, left Level 2A and 3, removal
- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 1 of 9 lymph nodes, size of metastasis 1.5 cm, no extranodal extension of tumor identiﬁed.

L: Lymph node, left Level 2B, removal
- No tumor seen in eleven lymph nodes (0/11).

M: Lymph node, left Level 3, removal
- No tumor seen in nine lymph nodes (0/9).

N: Lymph node, left Level 4, removal
- No tumor seen in ﬁve lymph nodes (0/5).

0: Larynx and thyroid, total laryngectomy/thyroidectomy and neck dissection

Tumor histologic type/subtype: squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic grade: moderately differentiated

Location of primary site: Tumor involves the right glottis and midline glottis, right aryepiglottic fold, and right pyriform sinus.
Size: 2.7 cm

Extent of invasion:

Angiolymphatic: not identiﬁed

Adjacent subsite: yes (see location section above)

Into/through cartilage: into the cricoid cartilage

Outside the larynx: no

In situ carcinoma: yes, overlying tumor

Surgical Margins: free of tumor

Lymph nodes: see specimen E-N above

Size of largest metastasis: 1.5 cm

Extra-capsular extension: not identiﬁed

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: none

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 pN1

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical

review and additional information.

P: Right base of tongue, resection
- No tumor seen.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoperative consultation was requested by Dr

FSA1: Right base of tongue, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

FSB 1: Left inferior pharyngeal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

FSC1: Right superior pharyngeal margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen.

FSD1: Right neck soft tissue margin, biopsy

- No tumor seen.

Clinical History:

T3 squamous cell carcinoma of larynx.

Gross Description:

Container A received fresh for frozen section is a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.8 cm red-tan soft tissue fragment entirely submitted in FSA1,-
Container B received fresh for frozen section is a 5.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm red-tan soft tissue fragment entirely submitted in FSB1,-
Container C received fresh for frozen section is a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm red-tan soft tissue fragment entirely submitted in FSC1,-
Container D received fresh for frozen section is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm red-tan soft tissue fragment entirely submitted in FSD1,-

Container E is additionally labeled "right Level 2A lymph nodes." It holds a 2.8 x 1.6 x 0.6 cm pink/tan lymph node packet. Three possible
lymph node candidates are entirely submitted in block E1,-

Container F is additionally labeled "right supraclavicularl ph nodes." It holds a 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm tan/pink lymph node packet with two
lymph node candidates entirely submitted in block F1,

Container G is additionally labeled "Level 2 right neck node." It holds a 4.6 x 3.7 x 0.9 cm pink/tan lymph node packet with at least three
lymph node candidates. The largest (G1) measures 2.6 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm.

Block summary:

G1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
G2 - one lymph node candidate, bisected
G3 - one large lymph node candidate, bisected with two small additional lymph node candidates; ﬁbrovascular tissue remains.

Container H is additionally labeled "Level 3, right neck node." It holds a 4.2 x 3.9 x 0.7 cm pink/tan packet with multiple lymph node
candidates and ﬁbroadipose tissue.

Block summary:
H1 - four lymph node candidates

H2 - two lymph node candidates
H3 - four lymph node candidates
H4 - three lymph node candidates

Container I is additionally labeled "Level 1, right neck node." It holds a 3.6 x 3.3 x 0.5 cm packet of yellow/pink ﬁbroadipose tissue with
lymph node candidates.

Block summary:
11 - one large lymph node candidate, bisected and a single small lymph node

I2 - three lymph node candidates
I3 - remaining ﬁbrovascular tissue
Entire specimen submitted,

Container J is additionally labeled "Left Level 1B lymph node." It holds a 2.9 x 2.0 x 0.5 cm packet of yellow/pink ﬁbroadipose tissue with
lymph node candidates. The specimen is entirely submitted in block J 1,-

Container K is additionally labeled "left Level 2A and 3." It holds a 4.8 x 4.1 x 1.3 cm packet of purple/pink lymph node candidates, the
largest measures 2.6 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm.

Block summary:
K1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

K2 - one grossly positive node, bisected with a single adjacent small node
K3 - two lymph node candidates, grossly adherent to each other, bisected
K4 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

K5 - four lymph node candidates

K6 - remaining ﬁbroadipose tissue,

Container L is additionally labeled "left Level 2B." It holds a 2.4 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm packet of yellow/pink ﬁbroadipose tissue with lymph node
candidates. Entirely submitted in blocks L1 and L2,-

Container M is additionally labeled "left Level 3." It holds a 2.9 x 2.4 x 0.7 cm packet of yellow/tan ﬁbroadipose tissue with lymph node
candidates.

Block Summary:
M1 - three lymph node candidates

M2 - two lymph node candidates
M3 - three lymph node candidates
Entire specimen submitted.

Container N is additionally labeled "left Level 4 lymph node." It holds a 3.4 x 2.5 x 0.8 cm yellow/pink lymph node packet.

Block summary:
N1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

N2 - three lymph node candidates, submitted with remaining ﬁbroadipose tissue

Entire specimen submitted.

Container 0:

Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: total laryngectomy, thyroidectomy

Size of specimen: 10.5 x 6.8 x 3.8 cm

Orientation of specimen: The thyroid outer surface is inked blue, the anterior soft tissue margin is inked black.
Tumor description: white/tan, ﬁrm mass located at the right aryepiglottic fold extending into the pyriform sinus
Location of tumor: right supraglottic region in the right aryepiglottic folds extending into the pyriform region

Tumor size: 2.7 x 2.6 x 1.7 cm

Extent of tumor: Tumor extends from the right supraglottic region in the right aryepiglottic folds and extending into the pyriform region.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: 0.5 cm from right epiglottic fold mucosal margin, 4.6 cm from the tracheal margin, 4.3 cm
from the right superior soft tissue margin

Description of remainder of tissue: The left aryepiglottic fold is grossly normal and uninvolved. The vocal cords are not grossly
involved. The anterior soft tissue margin is not grossly involved. The left lateral soft tissue margin is not involved.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes; For tissue procurement.
Lymph nodes: per block summary

Digital photograph taken: no

Block summary:
(Inking: right thyroid=blue, anterior soft tissue=black)

01 - tracheal ring margin, en face

02 - tumor with right aryepiglottic fold with tumor mucosal margin

03 - right epiglottis

04,05 - section of tumor at right aryepiglottic fold extending from pyriformis from superﬁcial to deep
06,07 - additional section of tumor, bisected, superﬁcial to deep

08 - right vocal cord

09 - mid vocal cord

010 - left vocal cord

011 - left aryepiglottic fold and pyriform sinus

012 - anterior soft tissue margin, en face

013 - anterior soft tissue margin (right anterolateral, 2.2 cm from main tumor, en face)
014,015 additional section of mass, superﬁcial to deep

016 - representative section of thyroid

017,018 - sections of grossly uninvolved thyroid cartilage underlying mass

Container P is additionally labeled "right base of tongue resection." It holds a 3.1 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm tan/pink soft tissue fragment. The specimen
is sectioned and entirely submitted in blocks P1 and P2,-

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Resident Physician: Attending Pathologist:
I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above diagnosis(es).

