UUID: 7543c231- 6359- 479c— 8874— sscaaanssscd
TCGA- GV- ASJX- a1A- PR acted

|l|l||||||||Il||l|||||||| ||
IIIIIIIIIIlI III |ll||||||IIIlIIIIIIIIIIIlIlIIIIIIIeIII||||||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-ldentiﬁed Specimen Code_

 

Patient Age/Sex . I M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: LEFT DISTAL URETER

Part B: RIGHT DiSTAL URETER

Part c: BLADDER] PROSTATE

Part D: RIGHT PELVlC LYMPH NODES
Part E: LEFl' PELVIC LYMPH NODES

Etna] glagnosls .
1. Left and right distal ureters, biopsy (A. B) - Negative for neoplasm.

2. Bladder, excision (C)- invasive poorly differentiated urotheiial carcinoma with invasion through
muscular wall and involvement of perivesical adipose tissue.

3. Prostate. excision (C) - Glandular hyperpiasia.
~Chronic inﬂammation.

4. Seminal vesicles. right andleft, excision (C) - Negative for neoplasm.

5. Right peivic lymph nodes. excision (D) - Negative for neoplasm, ten lymph nodes.

6. Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision (E) - Negative for neoplasm. ten lymph nodes.
/C_/) , 0 , 3

cm‘ W W" gnu/3
SIﬁV>HMMW N” (Ll/1.7

[VI/”>714

 

 

Page 1 of3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
2. Specimen Type: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Size, Greatest dimension: 3.0 cm

Histologic Type: Urothelial carcinoma with glandular and squamous differentiation

Urothelial Carcinoma: (WHOIISUP, 1998) High-grade

Associated Epithelial Lesions: High-grade papillary urotheiial carcinoma in previous biopsy specimen
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive cancer

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) invasion (V/L): Absent

Direct Extension of invasive Tumor: Perivesical fat

Other Diagnoses: See above

Pathologic Stage:

Primary Tumor: (pT)
pT3b: Macroscopicaiiy invades perivesicai fat (extravesical mass)

Regional Lymph Nodes: (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Distant Metastasis (pM):
pMX: Cannot be assessed

Clinical Diagnosis:
BLADDER CA

 

Page 2 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "left distal ureter“ consisting of one piece of
luminal tissue measuring 1 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is unoriented. The specimen is bisected and
totally submitted for frozen section as A1.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "right distal ureter" consisting of one piece
of unoriented iuminal tissue measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and totally
submitted for frozen section as B1.

‘—

C. Received in formalin labeled "bladder and prostate" is a specimen consisting of a urinary bladder with

attached prostate and seminal vesicles. The bladder measures 11 x 10 x 4 cm. The exterior surface of

the bladder is covered by ﬁbroadipose tissue and is inked black. After the bladder is opened. a polypoid

mass measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm is identified in the left posterior inferior wail of the bladder 0.2 cm

from the left ureter. On sectioning, the mass extends through the muscularis into the surrounding

adipose tissue but appears to be 0.4 cm from soft tissue margin (inked black). The tumor portion

involving the bladder wall has the following dimensions: 3 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. The remaining bladder

mucosa is slightly edematous. A segment of right ureter is 1 cm. It is patent with unremarkable

mucosa. A segment of left ureter is 1 cm. its mucosa is roughened, but it is patent. The prostate

measures 3.5 cm transversely, 3 cm anteroposteriorly, and 3 cm craniocaudally. The capsular surface 1
is smooth. The gland is inked blue on the right. and yellow on the left. The gland is sectioned from apex l
to base transversely at 3 mm intervals perpendicular to the urethra. The cross sections do not reveal a

mass lesion. Rubbery nodularity is not present. The seminal vesicles are unremarkable. Sections are

submitted as follows: C1 right ureteric margin, CZ left ureteric margin, CS urethral margin, C4 tumor with
deepest extension, C5-CB tumor involving bladder wall, 09 left ureter, 010 right ureter, C11 posterior
bladder wall, 012 right bladder wall, C13 left bladder wall, C14 bladder dome, C15 bladder trigone, C16

right apex of the prostate, 017 left apex of the prostate, C18 right mid portion of the prostate at 9 mm,

019 left mid portion of the prostate at 9 mm, C20 right base of the prostate with right seminal vesicle,

021 left base of the prostate. 022 left seminal vesicle, C23 anterior bladder wall.

- ‘-

D. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic lymph node" are multiple irregular segments of ﬁbroadipose
tissue aggregating to 6.0 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm. Palpation reveals 10 tan-pink firm nodules resembling lymph
nodes ranging in size from 0.7 to 5.0 cm in greatest dimension. The nodules are totally submitted in
formalin as follows: D1 two nodules; D2 two nodules; 03 two nodules; D4 two nodules; D5 one nodule;
DS—DQ largest nodule, serially sectioned. totally submitted.

E. Received fresh labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" are multiple irregular segments of ﬁbroadipose
tissue aggregating to 6.0 x 5.5 x 1.5 cm. Palpation reveals 17 tan~pink ﬁrm nodules resembling lymph
nodes ranging in size from 0.2 to 6.0 cm in greatest dimension. The nodules are totally submitted in
formalin as follows: E1 four nodules; E2 four nodules; E3 four nodules; E4 two nodules; E5 one nodule
bisected, totally submitted; E6 one nodule; E7-E11 largest nodule, sectioned, totally submitted.

 

Page 3 of 3

