\W 110 C‘ 7:5
Wt adarmwm», L [3417qu Q1413

Date of surgery 2

Mt

. D37iéanbcwllL, Qatari—Qt ’

Left eye enucleatlon 0/313 i Q (dz: m1 :5 1,97,74/j
Macroscopy Sﬂ O WM C’ 4 (13

The eyeball measures 26 by 25 by 24 mm with a posterior segment of optic nerve of 5 mm .At )4) Si/Ib/i‘l
the section, presence of a black tumor of the posterior pole. This tumor measures 13 main
line. Samples have been made for cryo preservation .The specimen has been then included

entirely.

5“ PM MM‘W‘f if” éwlleMI/CM
3W1. W1 W3-
The tumor described macroscopically corresponds to a choroidal melanoma. This
proliferation is made of epithelioid (80%) and fusiform cells (20%), with strongly atypical
and nucleolated nuclei and abundant cytoplasm often loaded with melanin pigment. The
mitotic index is low with l mitosis out of 10 high 400 magniﬁcation ﬁelds. This tumor
measures histologically 13 mm of main line. It inﬁltrates the choroid and the sclera up to the
two thirds of its thickness. ( slide D). Further more there is a neoplastic endo-lymphatic embol
at the external part of the sclera, in the ﬁbrous and fat orbital tissue (slide D). The optic nerve

on his entire course and the cut end of the optic nerve are free of tumor. Ciliary processes and
meningeal sheaths are free

Microscopy

Conclusion Wears: areas-82:7
um
I l
I

. . .. t . . I IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlclltEd
Mixed type (epithehond and fUSlfOI‘m) chormdal melanoma H h IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII lIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIII

I
IIIIIIllIllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Size of the tumor: 13 mm
Inﬁltration of the internal two thirds of the sclera
Tumoral embol in the extrasclcral orbital fat

The optic nerve on his entire course and the cut end of the optic nerve are free of tumor.
Ciliary processes and meningeal sheaths are free

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

m- . o o I V4(rg
l CGA Pathoiogic Diagnosm Discrepancy Form ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

lnsgugﬁogs: The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completedfor the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Soorce Site (T53): ____ __TSS Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: _._
Completed By {Interviewer Name or: OpenClinica]: .. Completed Date: _
iﬂiagnosis information 1
# Qata Element ’ Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
. . . Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtypﬁsl documented on
o A
Parhologﬁc Dia nosis 88 ‘4’ epithelimd cells the initial pathology report for this case, lithe hismiogy for
g
1 Provided on in itiai . this case is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.
20% spindle cells
Pathoiogy Report
, » . . . . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
1
histOiOgIC featuies Of 6 1300A epithelimd cells Quality Control Form completed for this case.
a the sample pro‘iided
? for E‘CGA, as reﬂected 180% spindle cells
; on the CQCF. .
ﬁiscreoancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form Fl
l 3 ' ppm/Ede the reasgn for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on we initial
: thediscrepancy The section of the frozen sample used for sending pamology report For this case is not conszstent With the

e ‘ ' ‘ F 2: r ‘ .
between the pathology to TCGA corresponds to a section of the tumor diagnoSis selected on the TCGA Case Quality .0 t 01 Form

report and the TCGA where the epitheiioicl part is predominant.
Case Quality Control
Form. The percentages mentioned on the initial
i>arhoiogy Report correspond to an average on the
, whole embedded sections used for establish the
\ Pathology Report

 

 

 

 

 

Name of TSS Reviewing l ‘ Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
= ) y

, 4 ; Pathologist or : .or TCSA

L l Biorepository Director 5

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by m y institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director Date

2' acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The/Ittendlng Pathologist or the
Separrment Chairman has been informed or is aware afthe above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal investigator Signature Date

