WID:6805331A-DBAA-4F32-M24-54F77A1h91e876ac
TCGA- 2L- -AA-Q.‘J -91A-PR

III II III IIIHI IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIEd
lIlIIIIII llllIIlIlllllI lllIl
IIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII

Age: female
Surgery date:

Macroscopic evaluation

1. Tissue root of the mesentery: unfixed, tissue specimens 0 2 cm

2. Colon meso: unﬁxed, irregular specimen 0.5 cm

3. Tissue root of the mesentery: unfixed 1.5 cm large fatty tissue specimen

4. A. gastroepiploicae: unfixed, tissue specime 0.3 cm

5. A. hepaticaz' unfixed, a 1.4 cm large lymph node with sparcely attached soft tissue

6. Ligamentum hepato duodenale: unfixed, 2x2x1 cm large fatty tissue specimen with two lymph nodes
7. Arteria mesenterica superior: unfixed, two specimens max. 0.5 cm

8. Resection margin pancreas: unfixed, a 4x1.5x0.3 cm large tissue lamellae

9. lntraaortokaval: unfixed, fragmented grey-white indurated tissue, max. 2 cm large

10. Resection margin pancreas: unﬁxed, a 3x1.5x0.5 cm large pancreas specimens at one side marked
with a stich

11. Gall bladder: fixed, a 6x4.5x3 cm large gall bladder, resected at the D. cysticus after 0.6 cm. The
mucosa yellow-brown with multiple, max. 0.8 cm large ulcers. The wall layers widened to max. 0.6 cm,
partially grey/glass-like edematous, partially hemorrhagic. At the D. cysticus a 0.8 cm large lymph node.
12. Additional resection specimen small intestine: fixed, a 15 cm long resection specimen of the small
intestine, at one side closed with a clamp. At the opposite side the wall with an extension of 1.5x1.0 cm
indurated. The mucosa on all sides soft. Serosa with large adhesive strands.

A. Resection margin 1 (closed with a clamp)

B. Resection margin 2 (opposite to the clamp)

C. central

13. A. mesenterica superior: fixed, three max. 2x0.8x0.8 cm large fatty tissue and muscle specimens with
vessels. Completely embedded.

14. Hemicolectomy right: fixed, a right hemicolectomy resection specimen, composed of a 5 cm long
terminal ileum and a 26 cm long cecum/colon ascendens/transversum, mesocolic fatty tissue max. 3 cm'
wide. The serosa with large adhesive strands. The mucosa at the right colon flexure in a length of 4.5 cm
dark red, otherwise the mucosa regular. Attached omentum majus 8x5x1.5 cm with large hemorrhages.
Appendix veriformis 5 cm long without tumor.

A. lleocecal valve ICD 5‘3 L5
B. colon ascendens ﬂMmameucmm My} #103356 C:

C. colon flexure right 2)

D. Adhesions of the serosa colon ascendens 5:412, QM; MA 0’25

E. Adhesions of the serosa colon flexure QB IF/ 5') I g

F. Adhesions of the serosa colon transversum

G. Appendix vermiformis and omentum majus

H. Resection margin oral

J. Resection margin aboral and deep resection margin

15. Tissue root of the mesentery: fixed, four max. 0.6 cm large soft tissue resection specimens

16. Lig. Hepatoduodenale: ﬁxed, a max. 0.9 cm large indurated soft tissue specimen, cut into two halves
and then completely embedded.

17. Pancreas: fixed, Whipple resection specimen, composed of a 10 cm long duodenum and 3 cm wide
distal stomach, a 8.5x6.5x3 cm large pancreas head. Ductus choledochus resected after 6 cm. Within the
pancreas a max. 3 cm large diffusely deﬁned solid tumor, that reaches extensively to the resection

margin of the distal pancreas. The tumor is macroscopically hardly defined from the dorsal and medial
resection margin. The Ductus choledochus crosses the tumor, fixed with a stent. The

tumor is macroscopically hardly defined from the duodenal wall. The gastric mucosa is edematous. The
specimen is surrounded by extensive adhesions. Ink mark: medial green, dorsal black. Within the max. 2
cm wide peripancreatic fatty tissue single max. 0.8 cm large lymph nodes.

A. Ductus choledochus pre-ampullic/tumor/duodenum/resection margin medial (green)

B. Ductus choledochus (2 cm in front of the papillae

C. + D. Tumor/stomach

E. + F. peripancreatic lymph nodes

G. Resection margin stomach and duodenum

H.+J. Resection margin Ductus choledochus (tangential)

Instantaneous section report

1., 2. Without tumor

. negative

. without tumor

. a lymph node without tumor

. negative

. Positive (adenocarcinoma)

. + 9. Positive (adenocarcinoma)

10. High grade PM at the D. pancreaticus with defined tumor infiltrates

OONO'lU'l-DUJ

Processed: 10x instantaneous sections, 40 blocks, H&E, EvG, PAS

Microscopy

1. and 2. Using parafﬁn material fatty tissue without tumor with ﬁbrosis

3. and 4. Using paraffin material fatty tissue without tumor and connective tissue

5. using parafﬁn material a lymph node without tumor with sinus histiocytosis

6. using parafﬁn material soft tissue without tumor with nerve structures. In addition, a lymph node
without tumor.

7. Using paraffin material fibro—muscular tissue with inﬁltrates of an adenocarcinoma (see 17.)

8. and 9. Also infiltrates of carcinoma. In the additionally analyzed paraffin material two further lymph
nodes without tumor. '

10. Using paraffin material there is a severe atypical intraductal proliferation of the epithelium with
papillary partially complex architecture. Clearly enlarged nuclei and intraepithelial mitoses. Similar as
described in the instantaneous section two small carcinoma infiltrates directly adjacent.

11. The gall bladder mucosa edematous, partially atrophic, with dense chronic inﬂammation. At the
epithelium not atypical. Within the wall partial large inflammation with lymphocytes and granulocytes
and foreign body reaction. No tumor infiltrates. Fibrosis, edema, and chronic inflammation at the ductus
cysticus. The hilus lymph node with follicle hyperplasia, without tumor.

12. Resection margin 1 shows duodenum without tumor. At the opposite resection marginextensive
inﬁltration of a ductal adenocarcinoma, infiltrating within the wall to the serosa. The central specimen
without tumor

13. Soft tissue and connective tissue with vessels and nerves. At multiple sites detection of perineural
invasion and some tumor inﬁltrates in sclerotic tissue areas. Six lymph nodes without tumor.

14. At the adhesions of the serosa, that were macroscopically described, a partially lymphocytic, partially
granulocyte-based inflammation with fibrin exudation and adjacent fibroblastic proliferation. Tissue

edema within the fatty tissue. The blood vessels are congested. The mucosa partially edematous,
speciﬁcally in the ileum with hyperplasia of the Peyer’s Plaques. No evidence of cancer infiltrates. The
appendix is regular.

15. Fatty tissue and fibrosis with parts of 4 lymph nodes without tumor.

, 16. Four lymph nodes without tumor with follicle hyperplasia.

17. There are extensiveinfitrates of a ductal adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, with enlarged
nuclei and prominent nucleoli, overall a homogenous impression. Extensive stroma desmoplasia.
Frequent small necrotic areas. The tumor surrounds the Ductus choledochus as described
macroscopically. The tumor infiltrates the duodenal wall. The Ductus pancreaticus extensively
surrounded by the tumor. Frequent large areas of sclerosis. Extensive perineural invasion. Tumor is
detected at the medial resection margin. The resection margins of the Ductus choledochus and stomach
and duodenum all are without tumor. Seven peripancreatic lymph nodes without tumor.

Short report on diagnostic findings

1.-17. Extended moderately differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, with infiltration of
the duodenal wall (17.). Tumor is present in the resected loop of the small intestine (12.) and in the
separated received resection specimens of the A. mesenterica superior (7.) and interaortocaval (9).
Tumor is present at the medial resection margin of the Whipple specimen (17.) and at the resection
margin of the pancreas parenchyma (8., 10.). No evidence for lymph node metastasis. Tissue root of the
mesentery without tumor (1., 3.), colonmeso without tumor, A. gastroepiploicae without tumor (4.). gall
bladder without tumor (11.) with acute absceding cholecystitis with cholecystolithiasis with focal fibrotic-

purulent peritonitis (11.). Detection of an ischemic injury of the colon at the right colon flexure with
segmental mucosa ischemia (14.).

TNM classification (urcc, 7th Edition 2010): pT4, pNO (0/21)
Grading: GZ
Resection status: R1

 

