UUID: 74597CF2- -71A6- 4F3A- -91E5- F22F03104417 ‘ v
TCGA- 3A-A91C-01A- pn 1w 0 a

iii'i'l'..'i'.l'iiii:l'i'iﬂ'ifi'i.'i"iil 1!: {13:33:33 '5: "' "' wwwis
6‘11, WW

Pathology Report C 2 5 0
Q4 3 4/164“!

Fina! Diagnosis

EILE DUCT PANCREAS DUODENUM WHiPPLE PROCEDURE:
invasive pancreatic ducks! adenocarcinoma moderateiy differentiated.
See Key Pathological Findings.

5. ADDITIONAL PANCREATIC MARGIN, EXCISION:
Pancreatic intracpithefiai neoplasia 10w grade.
There is no evidence of carcinoma andJor high grade dyspiasia-

“z the attending pathoiogist.geracna11y reviewed. all
slides anti 1 at" matariaia and remiarad the firm”5 ﬂiagnnsﬁs Electrmicaliy
Signed Out by

Key Pathological Findings
A: Pancressaocrine Synoptic Data
SPECIMEN TYPE: Pancreahcaduodeneetomy (W hippie reeectaon‘L partial pancreaieciomy
”(U MOR SITE:
Pancreatic head
TUMOR SIZE; invaswe:
4 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm
*GTHER ORGANS RESECTED:
'Duodenum
Ductai wenocarcinoma
HISTCLOGSC GRADE: GE: Moderately cfiﬂerenu‘ated
E‘XYENY OF iNVASEON -- PRIMARV TUMOR: Tumor vaades adjacent ammureslmgans
Duodenum
P'REMAR“! TUMOR {pT'}: pTS: Tumor extends beyond the. yancreas bui without invotvement of the
eeiiac axis or the superior mesenieric. often;
REGiONAL LYM PH MODES {phi}: pN1b: Memsmsis Tm multjpie regionai lymph nodes
Numbet examined: 21
Number involved: 4
DiSTANT METASTASIS (9M): pMX: Cannot be assesseei
MARGiNS:
Margins free of tumor
Distance of imiasive carcinoma from cbsesﬁ margin: 1 mm
*5 pacify margin {if possibk}: Mopea'itoneal morgirs
PANCREA‘FIC RESECTiON MARGiN, INVOLV EB BY:
PaniNib
*VENOUS LLARGE VEESEL} INVASION W}; *Absent
*LYMPHATIC {SMALL VESSEL) lNVASiON {it “Present

 

'PERINEURAL iNVASION: 'Presern
*ADDlTlONAl. PATHOLQGIC FlNDlNGS:
‘Aouze pancreamis
*Chmnic pancreatitis

Specimen(s) Received
A BlLE oucr, PANCREAS, DUODENUM F8
is AnmrionAL PANC‘REATIC MARGlN rs

Clinical History

Not given.

Preoperative Diagnosis
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

Intraoperative Consuitation
FEA BlLE DUCT, PANCREAE, DUODENUM:

Common bile; duct margin free of invasive ominoma, formal intraduclal papillary mucinous
neoplasm (lPMN) present (obscuring cavity artifact prenatal.

lntradeparlmenial Consultation: The case was also reviewed by .10, who concurs
With the above interpretalion.

FSB ADDRIONAL PANCREM’iC MARGlN:
his evidence of malignancy.

Comment This frozen section diaonosisll'esuli was mmmunieaied lo and acknowledged by Sr.
in frnzen section room 31

MD and 7 no. have gonorrhea the inmperative consultations and
lSSUEd the: above diagnosis.

Gross Description

A. The specmen is received fresh for frozen section analysis labeled ”bile-duct, pancreas‘
duodenum.“ The specimen consists of a resented portion of the pancreatic head {4.5 x 4 .x 3 cm} and
attached duodenum (12 cm in length and 6 cm in greatest cirtumlerence). The aerosol surface of the
duodenum is brown-tan and smoom. Upon opening, the lumen contains a moderate amount of

viscous bile. The mucosal surface of the duodenum exhibits normal folds with no gross evidence of
polyps or nodularity.

The pancrealic margin reaction in marked wrth black ink, the portal vein groove is marked with blue
ink and the relroperitoneaal surface is marked with green inli. There is no stapled line grossly preseni
that would indicate the suparior mesenlery Mary. A palpable pancreatic mass is identiﬁed. The
pancreatic duct is not probe patent and is totally occluded by the presence of the tumor. Serial
sectioning min the pancreas reveals a ﬁrm, yellow-gray, ii—deﬂned mass

(4 x 35 x 2.5 cm), which abuts the refrdperiloneal surfacelunc'mate process. Grossly We mass does

appear to involve the common bile duct, which is probe patent and somewhat dilated with an inserted
catheter. Groom): the mass owe appear to involve the duodenal wail extending to the mucosal
surface and grossly Wiring the am pulla of Voter. There is a minimal amoum of grossly uninvolved
pancrealic tissue- A section of the minimal amount of attached adipose tissue isolates 2 moderately
turn, round, tan, irregular lymph nodee, which measure 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph
nodes are isolated adjacent to the pancreas. A representative frozen section is taken and submitted
as FSAl. Fermanenl motions are submitted as:

A2: Mirror image of lumor submitted to Tissue Bank .

ills: Tangential pancreatic margln attached to specimen.

A4: Perpendicular portal vein groove.

A5: Tangential proximal duodenal margin of resection.

A6: Tangential distal duodenal margin of resection.

ALAS: Sections of lumor showing relationship to retroperitoneal surface (green
ink}.

ﬁle—Al DzTumor showing its relationship to common trifle duct and ampulla of
Voter.

A1 *1: Tumor showing its relationship to duodenum.

A12: Grossly unremarkable pancreas.

A13: Groesly unremarkable duodenal mucosa.

M4: Cine bisected lymph node.

MS: One bisected lymph node.

A1 ﬁ-Aiﬁ: Entire remaining adipose tissue.

A representative motion of the tumor is submitted to the Tissue Procurement Laboratory.

8. The specimen is received fresh for frozen aeolian analysis labeled ’additional pancreatic
rn argin.“ The eoecimen consists of a 3 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm, firm, grayveilow, irregular fragment of Marie.
The morg'm is entirely eulomitled tangentially for frozen section ae F381.

 

 

 

