UUID: BADSCFF44- -CBBPB- 4554A- -BFEO- -1CTDBECI§3eC6Aac

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ll IIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIN
Tsspat‘em'”: III“M““IlIlllllllll IIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIII
|||IIIIllIIIIIIHIllIllIlHI IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIII

Surgical Date:
Gross Description: Whipple, FS: Received is a pancreaticoduodenectomy specimen that
consists ofduodenum, pancreas, and peripancreatic fat. The duodenum

measures 20.5 cm in length x 4 cm in average diameter. Both ends are

received stapled shut. The serosa is smooth, red, and grossly unremarkable.

The staples are removed and the duodenum is opened to reveal uniformly

dusky brown mucosa in the distal one-third of the specimen. Of note, the

common bile duct and the main pancreatic ducts have two separate ampullae
separated by approximately 0.2 cm. There is a 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2-cm,

granular, red-tan lesion adjacent to the ampullae. The proximal duodenal

mucosa is significant for several punctate hemorrhages. There is a blue

“are
nnr‘ml’M/Jﬂy

\
stent protruding through the common bile duct ampulla. i I7
The pancreas measures 10 x 6 x 4 cm. The specimen is oriented as follows: (a F III

l9“,
\) /
looped blue at portal vein groove, long blue stitch at superior mesenteric I;
a . - n g“
artery margin, and long smgle black stItch at deep radial margin. The \\“
\l:

entire radial margin of the pancreas is inked black. The neck is shaved en

face and used for frozen section diagnosis and is resubmitted in toto. The

(”2195? WW’KWMWW‘A

new "untrue" pancreatic neck margin is inked orange for orientation. The
specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a 3.8 x 3 x 3—cm, ill-defined,

indurated, yellow-white mass that focally abuts the black-inked radial

9 -3 @7le

margin and grossly extends into the peripancreatic fat. The mass is 0.6 cm
from the pancreatic neck margin and 0.5 cm from the ampulla. In the mid
portion ofthe specimen, the mass surrounds and compresses the main

pancreatic duct to a diameter of 0.1. The main pancreatic duct is probe

patent through the ampulla. Similarly, the mass centrally compresses the
common bile duct that is probe patent, through the blue stent, to the
ampulla. Distally, both the main pancreatic and the common bile ducts are

dilated. A portion of the tumor is sent to tumor bank and

The peripancreatic fat is carefully dissected to reveal 12 possible lymph
nodes. Representative sections are submitted including all possible lymph

nodes.

Microscopic Description:
Diagnosis Details: C: Whipple, resection:

- invasive pancreatic adenocarcinoma, grade 3 of 4, 3.8 cm in maximum dimension (see Pathology
Staging Summary below)

- Surgical margins, including superior mesenteric artery margin, portal vein groove, and deep radial
margins are negative for malignancy (tumor extends to 0.2 cm from portal vein groove)

- Metastatic adenocarcinoma in one of twelve lymph nodes
— Overall stage: pT3 N1 Mx

Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: PANCREAS TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Whipple resection

Tumor site: Head

Tumor size: 3.8 cm

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, ductal type

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor extent: Not specified

Lymph nodes: 1/12 positive for metastasis (Regional 1/12)

Lymphatic invasion: Not specified

Venous invasion: Not specified

Margins: Uninvolved

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified

Comments: None

 

