UUID:1A35TBEF-5E70uA-AI18A- BAAS- F968DB7A898Da

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY III II IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Case Number I III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Diagnosis:
Left testicle, left radical orchiectomy -

Tumor histologic type: Mixed germ cell tumor (seminoma 50%,
mature teratoma 45%, embryonal carcinoma 5%)

Tumor size: 5.5 cm
Tumor focality: Unifocal

Extent of invasion:

Epididymis: Not involved

Tunica vaginalis: Not involved

Spermatic cord: Not involved
Paratesticular soft tissues: Not involved
Rete testis: Not involved

Lymphatics: Not involved

Surgical margins, including spermatic cord margin: Negative
Other significant findings: None

AJCC Stage: pTl pNx pr

This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen

and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of all available
information is recommended to determine final staging.

Clinical History:
year—old male with left testicular mass. Scrotal ultrasound
demonstrated mixed cystic and solid testicular mass.
Labs: AFP 15 (ULN 10), beta HCG <5.

Gross Description:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Type/side of specimen: left radical orchiectomy

Size of specimen: Testicle, 6.7 x 3.9 x 5.7 cm; 99.2 grams

Structures attached to testis: epididymis, spermatic cord and
vaginalis; The spermatic cord is 9.8 x 1.9 cm (diameter).

Orientation: The tunica vaginalis was inked blue. This retracted
during fixation.

Tumor description: heterogeneous mass effacing almost the entire
testicle parenchyma except for a small rim; the mass has
lobulated tan/white areas with focal hemorrhage and a subjacent
cystic and solid mass with areas of firmness and possible
calcification

Tumor size: 5.7 x 3.3 x 3.7 cm

Focality of tumor: unifocal

Confinement/non—confinement:

Tunica albuginea: abutting the tunica albuginea, but does appear
to be confined

Relationship of tumor to adjacent anatomic structures:
Epididymis: does not grossly involve

Tunica vaginalis: does not grossly involve

Paratesticular soft tissues: does not grossly involve

Spermatic cord: does not grossly involve

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: 9.0 cm from the distal
spermatic cord margin

Description of remainder of tissue: The inferior pole at the
testicle has a small zone of grossly normal testicular
parenchyma; the rest of the testicle is effaced by tumor. The

cystic and solid mass predominates the upper pole of the kidney.

Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes; Tissue
Procurement

Digital photograph taken: no

Block Summary:

A1 — spermatic cord margin

A2 — proximal spermatic cord

A3 — tunica vaginalis

A4 - tumor in relation to epididymis

A5 — solid white/tan lobulated mass to cystic mass

A6,A7 — additional sections of mass in relation to tunica
albuginea

A8 — mass in relation to grossly normal lower pole testicular
tissue

A9 — solid mass in relation to grossly normal testicular tissue
A10 - mass in relation to epididymis

All ~ mass in relation to rete testis

A12 - additional random sections of testicular mass

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr. No immature
teratoma is noted. Slide All shows a 1.8cm focus of
undifferentiated carcinoma, AFP(-), CD30(—), interpreted as
embryonal carcinoma. Dr. concurs.

 

