( , r Page 1 of 3

4

 

UUID:BSCCE331-652C-4DSB-9EDS-ECAEBSTAEIAF
TceA-Ga-AAva-eiA-pn Redacted

Illllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Ill IlllllllIHIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
CONFIDENT'AL IlllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllll_

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

Time Collected Time Received '
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Status Final Relevant Information
Location
Copied To Copy to Request. Insufﬁcient Data for
Report Patient Name:

Demographics (for
veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Birth:
Sex: F

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surgical Pathology Report*****

Accession Number
Collected Date/Time
Received Date/Time

Pathologist
1 1600-35
. n 2 . _
i‘i’°§i‘i‘§&§§§§§i§§‘7‘ (am/Win magnate/x Noe male
3. Right hepatectomy at (>th ‘ aL/LU-EJL a gala

(”)5\ glam/1‘}-
Clinical Information .
Hepatitis B-HCC

Infectious patientzNo
Immunocompromised: No

History of neoplasm: No

 

Diagnosis
A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:
— Gallbladder with no significant pathologic abnormality

E. Liver, right hepatectomy:
- Well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma

Tumor size: 8.0 x 7.2 x 5.8 cm

Tumor comes within 0.2 cm of resection margin

Negative for lymphvascular invasion

Multiple embolized vessels identified; consistent with prior

procedure

- Background liver shows moderate portal lymphocytic
infiltration (grade 3) and bridging fibrosis (stage 3),
consistent with chronic viral hepatitis B

- Please see synoptic report

Reported by:

Electronicallv ninnad h“.
Verified:

Page 2 of 3

Responsible Resident:

Synoptic Report

3: Liver, Resection, Microscopic
HISTOLOGIC TYPE :

Hepatocellular carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

GI: Well differentiated

TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply):

Tumor confined to liver

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):

pTl: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion

REGIONAL LYMPH NOD38 (pN):

pNx: Cannot be assessed

DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):

pMX: Cannot be assessed

MARGINS:

Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.2 mm

*VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V):

*Absent

*ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:

*Hepatitis (specify type): Hepatitis B viral hepatitis

Gross Description
Received are specimen containers A to D “‘ renuisitions and specimen containers are

labelled with the patient‘s name, . The cassettes and identifiers are
labelled with the Surgical Number

A. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated " Gallbladder“ and consists
of an intact gallbladder, measuring 8.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. The gallbladder has a smooth
serosal surface. On opening the gallbladder contains approximately 10.0 ml of dark green
bile and no stones. The mucosal surface is homogeneously green with normal appearing
architecture. Representative sections are submitted in one cassette.

B. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated “ Right hepatectomy" and
consists of a portion of liver. which weighted 347 g in the fresh state and the margin
was inked blue. The specimen was tumor banked when received fresh. Following fixation the
portion of liver, measures 12.0 x 7.0 x 11.0 cm and has a smooth capsular surface. A
circumscribed mass with a yellow tan parenchyma and central area of scarring with
hemorrhage is present, measuring 7.2 x 5.8 x 8.0 cm. This tumor comes within 0.2 mm of
the liver capsule and within 0.3 cm from the inked margin. The background liver has a
yellow coloration and appears fibrotic. Possible emboli are identified in the background

liver, but no satellite tumor nodules are present. Representative sections are submitted
as follows:

31/2. tumor with closest margin

33. tumor in relationship to background liver
B4. tumor in relationship to liver capsule

35-9. additional representative sections of tumor
310/11. sections showing possible emboli

312. representative sections of background liver

Microscopic Description

Immunohistochemisty in the background liver shows focal positivity for hepatitis 3 core
antigen in some nuclei and strong focal positivity for hepatitis B surface antigen,
consistent with the patient's history of hepatitis B infection.

Page 3 of 3

The tumor cells are negative for alpha-feta protein. Negativity for this marker can be
seen in hepatocellular carcinomas. The tumor morphology is consistent with
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patlent Location

 

Initials

