‘ 1:60) '0 “c3
Cardamom/10s., LUV/7 2/10.} N535

_ PW (1w. 9
Gender: Female 6‘17””, :BZ ! few M53
am ‘7
Race: Black Géﬁt‘ W115» “30;“ at?

J9 ladder,» (343714,
\ -
Pathology Report: (VJ 41/61/57

Surgical Pathology Report

UUID: GBGCBADC- 7F33- 4E3A- A616- SBGBSBBFOBIeSd
TCGA- FD- AGZS- 01A- PR

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS IlllllllllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllkllelllllllllEd

, , , III II!!!"
A- Left pelVIC lymph node; dissectloni III "III“ lllIllllllIllllIlllllllIllllllllllllllll llllllllllll
- Eleven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/11)- I“ ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||I||| “II III"

B. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

C. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Thirteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 13).

D. Urinary bladder, urethra, uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovary;

radical cystectomy and TAHBSO:

— High grade urothelial carcinoma with focal tubular formations, invading M735, 901% W <59”
thru the muscularis propria and into the perivesical fat, see pathologic Doe,
parameters.

- Carcinoma involves the posterior specimen margin.

— Leiomyomata uteri with focal osseous metaplasia (largest 5 cm).

— Adenomyoma uteri.

- Bilateral ovaries with age-related changes, no tumor.

- Bilateral fallopian tube, no tumor.

E. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

F. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma, with focal tubular formation.
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: 3.0 cm at posterior wall.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Posterior margin positive for tumor, see
comment.

8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/24).

9. pTNM: pT3b,N0,MX, R1.

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (U ICC).

Comment
Keratin AEl/AE3 performed on slides D7, D8 and D11 highlight the tumor cells
involving the posterior specimen margin. Controls appropriate.

xx
[L MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD, PhD

Electronically Signed Out by [], MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a ‘ year-old female with bladder cancer who undergoes a cystectomy
with supracervical hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Left pelvic lymph node

B: Left distal ureter

C: Right pelvic lymph nodes

D: Bladder, urethra, uterus, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
E: Left distal ureter

F: Right distal ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph node".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 4.5 x 1.3 cm aggregate of
lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-1.9 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

A1: 4 lymph nodes

A2: 6 lymph nodes

A3-A4: One lymph node, serially sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "distal left ureter“.
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented segment of ureter
measuring 0.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. One end is closed. The outer
surface is inked black and open end is inked blue. The specimen is bisected and
entirely submitted in B1.

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an 8.0 x 5.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate
of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph

nodes to reveal multiple apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-2.1 cm in
greatest dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

C1-C3: 3 lymph nodes, each cassette

C4: One lymph node, serial section

C5: One lymph node, serial section

D. The fourth container is additionally identified as, "4. Bladder, urethra,

uterus, BSO". Received fresh and place in formalin is a 175.2 g cystectomy
Specimen with measurements of 6.5 x 5 x 3 cm. The right ureteral stump measures
2 x 0.6 cm, and the left measures 1.8 x 1 cm, and both demonstrate extensive
cautery at the margin. The urethral stump measures 1.4 x 0.8 cm. Within the

’ bladder urethra is a clear plastic tube measuring 17.2 cm in length and 0.7 cm

in diameter. The serosal surface shows yellow lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue with
focal cautery artifact. The urethral margin is inked black, and the bladder is

inked blue on the right half and black on the left half. The specimen is opened
anteriorly to reveal a 5 x 4 cm ill-deﬁned induration of posterior wall of the
bladder. Left ureter oriﬁce is involved by induration. The area of induration

is approximately 2 cm from distal urethral margin. Within area of induration,
there is a 3 x 1.9 cm ulceration at the left lateral posterior aspect of the

bladder. On cut section, the induration extends through the muscularis propria
and grossly into the perivesical fat and is 0.1 cm from the deep margin. The
surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, smooth, wrinkled, congested, pink-tan
with a uniform 1.3 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral orifices, adjacent to

the tri gone, are identified and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D l : Distal urethral margin

D2: Left ureter resection margin

D3: Right ureter resection margin

D4-D1 1 : Bladder induration/Ulceration

D12: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
D13: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
D14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall

Additionally received separately is a 231 gm supracervical hysterectomy

specimen, measuring 7.2 cm from ﬁindus to lower uterine segment by 10.5 cm from
cornu to cornu by 6.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosal surface is

red-tan, and demonstrates numerous subserosal bulges ranging in size from less
than 0.5 cm up to 5 cm. No cervix or parametrium is present. The anterior

aspect is inked in blue and the posterior aspect is inked in black. A single
full-thickness defect is present at the fundus of the uterus measuring 2 x 1.5

cm.

The specimen is opened revealing a triangular endometrial cavity measuring 1.6
cm from cornu to cornu by 4.2 cm in length and lined with tan-pink, lush
endometrium measuring 0.1 cm in thickness. The specimen is sectioned revealing
pink—tan myometrium which is distorted by on the anterior, posterior, fundus

with multiple, rubbery, whorled nodules measuring from 0.5-5.0 cm. On cut
section the nodules are devoid of hemorrhage and necrosis. The myometrium has a
maximum wall thickness of 1.5-2.5 cm.

The right adnexa structure consists of an 8 cm long and 0.4 cm diameter
ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm and is
sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan, grossly unremarkable ovarian stroma.

The left adnexa structure consists of an 8.2 cm long and 0.4 cm diameter
ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a 0.2 cm wall thickness.
The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 2.6 x 1.6 x 0.8 cm and is
sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan, grossly unremarkable ovarian stroma.

D15: Anterior lower uterine segment

D16: Posterior lower uterine segment

D17: Section of anterior endomyometrium
D18: Section of posterior endomyometrium
D19: Right ovary and fallopian tube

D20: Left ovary and fallopian tube
D21-D23: Sections of ﬁbroids

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left distal ureter,

stitch on non—margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an oriented
ureterectomy specimen measuring 1.1 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter with
attached stitch designating as non-margin side. The margin side is inked blue
and submitted as E1.

F. The sixth container is additionally identified as, "right distal ureter,

suture on non—margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an oriented
ureterectomy specimen measuring 1.2 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter with
attached stitch designating as non-margin side. The margin side is inked blue
and submitted as F1.

XXX
[]9 MD) PhD

   
 
     
 
    
 

mm; W ﬁbﬂ—’._ —

iggnnsis Discrepancy
Fr Mary Tumor Site Discrepancy
.—"T f.‘ ——i
HIP/\A LIerepancy
ﬂier Malignancy History
Brat/Synchronous Prim :irv
$5: is (circle):

