UUID:7A1C1315-343F-484B-A15E-C039996517E2

 

TCGA-GU-A42Q-BlA—PR Redacted

”— Illlllilliilllllllllllllllillllllillllllllllllllllllllllilllllll
lllllllllllllllll|||||||||llll||l||llllll

WI Hi‘l‘li‘lﬂlliM‘Hllﬁlll i lllll i ||l||| lllllll ll llll I I ll

 

I Pathology Results I

 

 

 

Name: MRN: .__,
DOB: _ J
Sex: ‘ ‘
Collected: Caseii:
Date Rec'd: '
Ordering MD:
Physician: Status: FINAL
Service:
Related Reports:
Surgical Pathology
iCD~C> 3

PatientNami’ ‘ CQICIHOW 1 “row“ a ( ' DOS
MR#:r ' 8 i 2.016
Specimen # ‘ .

31k: bladddr, Loan N03
Final Diagnosis C (p ’7 . q

z lav) i 2

A. Right ureter. biopsy: Q0

- No evidence of carcinoma or high grade dyspiasia

B. Lott ureter, biopsy:
- No evidence of carcinoma or high grade dyspiasia

C. Left external and internal lilac lymph nodes, dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/8)

D. Leit external and intemai iliac lymph nodes, dissection:
~ No lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (00.)

E. Left obturator lymph nodes, dissection:
- Six lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/6)

F. Left common iliac lymph nodes, dissection:

$41.2 l/(GA Pd’iwhjuc Magus”
Dar/wow“! Fm.

 

--:fi::::::i: .I/b

r “"“"“—”I ESP-”w

. “i
~1~¥—— T” «:1

 

 

 

m" This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source system. m"

Printed:

Page: 1 of 10

 

woman»

 

 

‘ Results
Repository

I Pathology Results I
Name: { ,1 MRN: ('
DOB: i
Sex:

 

- Eleven lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0]11)

G. Presacral lymph nodes. dissection:
- Four lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (014)

H. Bilateral common illac lymph nodes. dissection:
- Two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2)

l. Paraaortic and paracaval lymph nodes. dissection:
- Eight lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/8)

J. Right common lilac lymph nodes. dissection:
- Six lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/6)

K. Right external and internal illac lymph nodes. dissection:
- Seven lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (017)

L. Right obturator lymph nodes, dissection:
- Fourteen lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/14)

M. Urinary bladder, ureter stumps. prostate and seminal vesicles, radical

cystoprostatectomy:

- High grade urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma with extensive. squamous
differentiation.

invasive into perivesical adipose tissue, , ee note)

- The surgical resection margins are free of carcinoma or high grade dyspiasia
- Prostate with no evidence of carcinoma
- See CAP staging protocol below for full report

N. Appendix. appendectomy:
- Appendix with no signiﬁcant pathologic findings

CAP Staging Protocol for Carcinoma of the Urinary Bladder

Specimen: Bladder and prostate

 

*“t This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. ‘*“

Printed: . Page: 2 of 10

 

——-—Ciinicak

 

 

‘Results
Repository
1 Pathology Results I
Name: ‘ _‘ - MRN: r ._
w——--—‘ —,
DOB: __
Sex:

 

Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy
T umor Site: Right lateral and posterior walls
Tumor Size: 3.3 cm in greatest dimension

Histologic Type: Urotheiiai (transitional cell) carcinoma with extensive
squamous differentiation (see note)

Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed

Histologic Grade; Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO iUP): High~grade
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Perivesicai fat

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive or in situ carcinoma
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):

Primary Tumor (pT):

pT3b: Tumor invades perivesicai tissue. macroscopically
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

pNO: No lymph node metastasis

Specify: Number examined: 68, Number involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Ancillary Studies: Block M7 will be sent for ancillary studies

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCCIUlCC TNM. 7th
edition.

Note

 

R".

m“ This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems.

Printed: Page: 3 of 10

 

Clinical

 

 

 

Results
Repository
I Pathology Results I
Name: J MRN: i
DOB: (ya—ﬂ“
Sex:

 

The patients previous outside TURBT materiar 3as reviewed. and in
these sections the tumor displays marked areas of sarcomatcus diﬁerentiation
with multiple heterologous histomorpholegies. The current cystectomy specimen
displays a high grade urotheiial carcinoma with very extensive squamous
differentiation, large zones of necrosis. very poorly-differentiated areas. and
tomi sarcomatous areas, although no heteroiogoue components are seen.

This case was reviewed at the i
I
______’_,J the above diagnosis represents a consensus opinion.

Clinical History

Bladder cancer

Radical cystectomy, lymph node dissection, ileal conduit creation, all other
indicated procedures _.

Source:

A: Right ureter

B: Lett ureter

C: Left external and lntemai illac lymph nodes
D: Left external and internal iliac Lymph node
E: Left obturator Lymph node

F: Left common illac Lymph node

6: Presacrai Lymph node

H: Bilateral common illac Lymph node

i: Preacrtai and precaval Lymph node

J: Right common iiiac Lymph node

K: Right external and lntemai illac Lymph node
L: Right obturator Lymph node

M: Bladder and prostate

N: Appendix OT incidental

Gross Description
Specimen A is received in formalin and designated ' right ureter and consists

of a gray—white tubular soft tissue fragment measuring 1.3 cm in length and 0.4
cm in diameter. The tube is marked with a suture tag at what is indicated to be

 

““ This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. "*"

Printed: Page: 4 of 10

 

Manama

 

 

 

- Results
Repository
l Pathology Results I
Name: a MRNF -.__ ,
DOB: i i
Sex: '

 

the distal margin. A cross section of the proximal margin was frozen and
submitted, A1.

Specimen B is received fresh and designated ' left meter“ and consists of
gray-white tubular soft tissue fragment measuring 1.3 cm in length and 0.7 cm in
diameter. The tissue is received with a suture tag at what is designated distal
margin. 0n section, the tissue is seen to contain a double lumen with separate
walls and contain with a common sheet. The proximal resection margin is frozen
and subsequently submitted. Bi.

Specimen C is received fresh and designated ‘ left extemai and lntemai illac
lymph nodes' and consists of an irregular portion of focally hemorrhagic
lobulated adipose tissue measuring 12.0 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm. Dissected from the
adipose tissue are eight lymph node structures ranging from 0.3 cm to 2.0 cm.
The nodes were entirely frozen and are subsequently submitted as follows:
C1 three whole lymph nodes

C2 one bisected lymph node

C3 one bisected lymph node

C4 one bisected lymph node

CS one bisected lymph node

06 one bisected lymph node

Specimen D is received in formalin and designated ' left external and lntemai

illac lymph nodes' and consists of an aggregate of several fragments of focally
hemorrhagic lobuiated adipose tissue measuring 3.6 x 3.0 x 0.8 cm. Sectioning
through the adipose tissue reveals two lymph node structures ranging from 0.1 cm
to 2.2 cm. Nodes are submitted as follows:

D1 smaller node bisected

D2 larger node bisected

Specimen E is received in formalin and designated ' left obturator lymph nodes'
and consists of an aggregate of multiple fragments of focally hemorrhagic
iobulated adipose tissue. The fragments measure in aggregate 5.3 x 4.2 x 1.5 cm.
On section. the adipose tissue fragments reveal eight apparent lymph node
structures ranging from 0.4 cm to 2.5 cm. The nodes are entirely submitted as
follows:

 

m“ This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. **"

Printed: Page: 5 of 10

 

QilnlcaL

 

 

 

 

-Results
Repository

i 1 Pathology Results I
Name: . . MRN:
DOB: I.“—
Sex:

 

E1 single bisected node
E2 single bisected node
E3 single bisected node
54 live whole nodes

Specimen F is received in formalin and designated ' left common illac lymph
nodes' and consists of an aggregate of multiple focally hemorrhagic fragments
of lobulated adipose tissue measuring 4.7 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm. On section, adipose
tissue reveals 11 apparent lymph node structures ranging from 0.5 cm to 2.0 cm.
The nodes are entirely submitted as follows:

F1 one bisected lymph node

F2 - one bisected lymph node

F3 one bisected lymph node

F4 one bisected lymph node

F5 one bisected lymph node

F6 one bisected lymph node

F7 five whole lymph nodes

Specimen G is received in formalin and designated ' presacral lymph nodes' and
consists of an aggregate of several fragments of focally hemorrhagic lobulated
adipose tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm. Sectioning through the adipose
tissue reveals six apparent lymph node structures ranging from 0.3 cm to 0.7 cm.
Nodes are entirely submitted as follows:

61 three whole lymph nodes

GZ three whole lymph nodes

Specimen H is received in formalin and designated ' bilateral common illac lymph
nodes' and consists of an aggregate of focally hemorrhagic lobulated adipose
tissue. The fragments measure 4.1 x 2.8x 0.9 cm. Sectioning through the adipose
tissue reveals three apparent lymph node structures ranging from 0.5 cm to 1.1
cm. Nodes are entirely submitted as follows:

H1 two whole nodes

H2 one bisected node

Specimen I is received in formalin and designated ' pre—aortai and pre-caval
lymph nodes' and consists of several fragments of focally hemorrhagic lobulated

 

“m This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. **"*

Printed: Page: 6 of

10

 

WW

 

 

 

Results
Repository
I Pathology Results i.
Name: .. if MRN: I 1
cos: . g '
Sex:

 

adipose tissue measuring in aggregate 4.3 x 27 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the
adipose tissue reveals eight apparent lymph node structures ranging from 0.3 cm
to 1.5 cm. The nodes are entirely submitted as follows:

it single bisected node

l2 single bisected node

I3 single bisected node

l4 single bisected node

l5 single trisected node

l6 three whole nodes

Specimen J is received in formalin and designated ' right common illac lymph
nodes’ and consists of two fragments of focally hemorrhagic lobulated adipose
tissue measuring in aggregate 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm. Sectioning through the adipose
tissue reveals ﬁve apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 cm to 1.1 cm. Nodes
are entirely submitted as follows:

J1 single bisected node

J2 single bisected node

J3 three whole nodes

Specimen K is received in formalin and designated ' right external and internal
iliac lymph nodes' and consists of an aggregate of several fragments of focally
hemorrhagic lobulated adipose tissue. The fragments measure in aggregate 5.3 x
3.2 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals seven apparent lymph
node structures ranging from 0.3 cm to 1.4 cm. Nodes are entirely submitted as
follows: ' '

K1 single bisected node

K2 single bisected node

K3 single bisected node

K4 four whole nodes

Specimen L is received in formalin and designated ' right obturator lymph nodes'
and consists of an aggregate of multiple fragments of focally hemorrhagic
lobulated adipose tissue. The fragments measure in aggregate 5.3 x 3.5 x 1.2 cm.
Cross section of the adipose tissue reveal 14 apparent lymph node structures
ranging from 0.3 cm to 2.5 cm. Entirely submitted as follows:

L1 single bisected node

 

**‘* This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. m"

Printed: Page: 7 of 10

#CIW

 

 

 

-Results
Repository

I Pathology Results I
w
Name: _ _ _ MRN: _
DOB: l_
Sex:

 

L2 single bisocted node
L3 single bisected node
L4 single bisected node
L5 single bisected node
L6 live whole nodes
L7 four whole nodes

Specimen M

Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureter stumps, prostate. seminal vesicles

The patients name and case number on the specimen container match the

' accompanying paperwork and cassettes.

Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Fixatlve: ln formalin

Dimensions: Bladder. St 6.0 cm; right to left 5.0 cm: AP 3.5 cm; detached

ureter 2.5 cm in length and 0.2 cm in diameter. attached left ureter 2.0 cm in
length and 0.6 cm in diameter and reveals a double lumen. Prostate measures 2.6
cm Si. 3.2 cm right to left, and 2.3 cm AP.

Description of findings:

The bladder has a moderate amount of attached perivesicular adipose tissue. Upon
opening the bladder. the inner lining reveals a large slightly elevated tumor

mass occupying portions of right lateral wall and extending to include portion

of the posterior wall."l'umor measures 3.3 cm AP and 2.6 cm right to left.

Portions of the tumor have rolled margins. The center of the tumor has a soft
friable necrotic appearance. The right ureteral orifice has been mechanically
displaced by the tumor mass. The left ureter enters the bladder with two

separate distinct ureteral oriﬁces. corresponding to the duplication of left

ureter. Sectioning through the bladder wall reveals the tumor to have invaded

the full thickness of the bladder wall and into the attached perivesicular

adipose tissue. The tumor has a maximum thickness of 1.3 cm. The remaining
bladder mucosa has a mildly edematous gray-white appearance No additional mass
or lesions are grossly identified. Sectioning through the prostate reveals
gray-white lobulated spongy cut surfaces. No masses are grossly identiﬁed.

ink code:

Anterior surface blue

Posterior black

Right prostate, left orange

 

sans

m” This report is a compilation of lnforrnation originating from multiple source systems.

Printed: Page: 8 of

10

 

_cllnloaL
- Results
Repository

 

I Pathology Results I

Name: ﬂ. . d 1 MRN: .
DOB: ' 4.2,.
Sex:

 

Left prostate inked green

Right lateral resection margin of the bladder red

Section key:

M1 longitudinal section of left ureteral orifice including both lumen
M2 right ureteral oriﬁce. longitudinal

M3 tumor with inked posterior margin

M4 tumor right lateral margin

M5, M6 additional sections of tumor in right lateral wall

M7 section of tumor from right posterior wall

M8 section of normal anterior bladder wall

M9 section of normal bladder dome

M10 section of tumor with right bladder neck and right prostate base
M11 on face resection of the apical urethral margin

M12 M14 sections of right prostate distal to proximal

M15 M17 left prostate sections distal to proximal

M18 right seminal vesicles and vas deferens

M19 left seminal vesicle and vas deferens

M20 longitudinal sections to include posterior trigone, bladder neck, and
prostate base

Specimen N is received in formalin and designated ' appendlx‘ and consists of

an appendix with attached adipose. The appendix measures 7.0 cm in length and
averages 0.6 cm in diameter. The mesoappendix measures 6.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm. The
serosa of the appendix is mildly hyperemic and otherwise unremarkable. On
section, the lumen appears narrowed throughout. No lesions are grossly

identified. Representative sections of appendix is submitted. N1.

Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.

A—N. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected In the diagnoses rendered.

lntraoperative Diagnosis

 

**"‘ This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems. m"

Printed: , __ _ Page: 9 of 10

 

 

Clinical
‘Results

 

 

 

Repository
I Pathology RESUI'w I
Name: - MR": .
DOB: ~
Sex:
Time in: Tim out:

A1 -FS. Right ureter: ' Reactive endothelium. No dysplasia or carcinoma seen.’
B1-FS, Left ureter: ' _ ureter and reactive endothelium. No dysplasia or
carcinoma seen.’

Time in:

’ime out:

Ct-FS. Left lntemai illac lymph node: ' Eight lymph nodes. negative for

tumor.‘

Reported to '

mElectronically Signed Out”

 

Printed:

m’ This report is a compilation of information originating from multiple source systems.

Page:

ﬁt”

10 of

10

