 

 

UUID: F1923FES 5C71- 492E NJAD- 7F3256360FE1
TCGA- Q-R A7BR- BlA- PR

Redacted
IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIlIlIIlIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I
III IIIII I II I II I II I IIIIIII I II II IIIIIIIII Illlllll IIllllll'IIIlI'llllllIH I"

 

Surgical Pathology I

 

Surgical Pathology
CASE NUMBER: 7
DIAGNOSIS:

’l . Adrenal gland, right, adrenaiectomy: Consistent with
pheochromocytoma.

2. Gallbladder. cholecystectomy: Gallbladder with cholelithiasis
and mild chronic inﬂammation.

Immunoperoxidase and invsitu hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology . They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA

miso'detemined‘that‘ such clearance‘orapproval‘iS‘norn‘ecessaryf'- ~ ,- - '- '

This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL INFORMATION; Brief Clinical History: Pheochromocytoma/
Biliary Colic.

Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes.
Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: Right Adrenal Pheo / Gall Bladder w/
mild chronic inflammation.

Post-Operative Diagnosis: Pheochromocytoma / Biliary Colic.
Pre~0perative Diagnosis: Pheochromocytoma I Biliary Colic.

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND, RIGHT
2. GALLBLADDER

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received are 2 freshly submitted specimens, each in

containers labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number, and
further specified as follows:

1. "Right adrenal gland" is an adrenal gland with associated fat.
overall 8.4 x 5 x 3.5 cm and 51 grams. The external surface is
inked black. The specimen is bisected revealing a variegated
pink~red nodule, 8.4 x 4 x 3.5 cm, positioned in the medullary
aspect. The nodule is partially covered by cortex up to 0.4 cm in
thickness. Gross photographs are taken. Approximately 50% of
tissue from the center of the nodule and 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm of
normal-appearing adrenal gland are procured for *

Approximately 1 x 1 x 0.5 cm of normal-appearing periadrenal fat
is procured for The remainder of the specimen is
placed into formalin and suomitted to Pathology for permanent
processing. The procurement was performed by on
Received in Surgical Pathology is a specimen

r

i ontiiltniiu. l":iiii3ti{ iii}".)!'i'i12§lizifi, -. 'iniii‘rmrizizd :iisciriisnirc

if: Pl‘ifti'zr‘t‘vil'ﬁil is: rial: Essex: ltritzm star at 297'?»

Final Results}
Final

Iole: ' ‘ "

 

Requested By: I'

Do not file in Medical Record

 

 

 

r ‘ ' »
i Surgical Pathologﬂ

matching the above description. The speci

men is serially

sectioned and representative sections are submitted into cassettes
labeled The remaining tissue is returned to
formalin.

2. "Gallbladder" is an intact turgid gall

cm, The serosa is smooth and glisteni
and irregular and otherwise unremar
cm in diameter, patent, and closed by
is partially filled with innumerable yellowgreen m
gallstones ranging from minute to 0.9 cm in greats
and in the aggregate 6.5 x 2 x 1 cm: The mucosa
slightly trabeculated. The wall is up to 0.3 0
Received in Surgical Pathology is a specime
description. The cystic duct margin ls removed

submitted—in acassette labeled

sections of the mucosa are submitted
' . The remaining tissuei

Gross Description dictated by
Gross Description dictated by .

Accessioned:
Final Report Signed Out:

<Resident Signature>

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Date Report Signed: F

t, i'siifiixiszn‘iizd Eliiicnt internist ion, l lnnu

bladder, 8.6 x 3.5 x 3.2

ng. The liver bed is rough
his. The cystic duct is 0.3
surgical clips. The lumen
ultiface’ied

st dimensions

is tan—green and
m in thickness.

n matching the above
and entirely

and representative

 

into a cassette labeled
3 returned to formalin.

‘ ‘ Additional

inert wt dis-1.943s:

Final Resultsj

 

in' It licvli‘i‘six‘n In iin‘. Frieze! i

JobID:

‘m 1.3“. Sm oi new;

 

Requested By:

I

Do not tile in Medical Record

