UUID:0D874A99-9D21-4430-382F-28E56A8D4242
GA-FD-ASBX—elA-PR Redailited

ll {IIIIIIITICIII llllllllllllllllll||Illlllllllllllllllllll||||||
I

I} ||||lllllIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllIIllIIIIIlIIlIIIIlIIIIIII £4134; - 3

llllillllllllllllll||||||| . . .
IIHIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllll 19,4er ﬁammom U/Dwao’as/t [we

gImJ' cans arses/.3

dwF,’ Kan/50mm, [1/0/1de N05 8120/5
Gender: Male

794,71 ah,- Bkuider’ paS/Znénmol [42:2] [2551/
ﬂea/55%, Bladder, pom/w law (any

9%) lz/M // 2..

Race: White

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Left pelvic lymph node; lymphadenectomy:
- Eight lymph nodes, no tumor (0/8).

B. Urinary bladder, prostate, left and right vas deferens;

cystoprostatectomy:

- Bladder with invasive osteoclast-like giant cells rich poorly

differentiated urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the muscularis propria and
into the perivesical soﬁ tissue, see pathologic parameters and comment.

- Tumor shows multifocal lymphovascular invasion and spread within the
bladder wall to perivesical soft tissues.

— Posterior bladder and right ureter margins, positive for tumor.

- Prostate with incidental prostatic adenocarcinoma, see pathologic parameters.

C. Right pelvic lymph nodes; lymphadenectomy:
— Soft tissue deposits of metastatic osteoclasts—like giant cell rich
urothelial carcinoma, see comment.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive poorly differentiated osteoclast-like giant cells rich
urothelial carcinoma, see comment. ~
2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Large mass (4.0 cm) at inferior posterior and right
lateral wall, and with multiple small tumor foci in bladder wall at anterior,
posterior, right lateral and trigonal walls; additional free—ﬂoating/detached
tumor fragments that measured 11 cm and 3.2 cm.

5. Ureteral margins: Right ureter, positive for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Positive for tumor (multifocal).

8. Lymph nodes: Soft tissue deposits of urothelial carcinoma at right pelvic
lymph node area.
9. pTNM: pT3b,Nl,MX, R1, see comment.

Effective _ 4 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (U ICC).

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

. Gleason Score: 3+3=6.

. Perineural Invasion: Absent.

. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone - leﬂ (slide B10).
. Tumor Volume Estimate: 5%.

. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

. Extraprostatic Extension: Absent.

. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.

. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.

1 1. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostate carcinoma
(0/8).

12. pTNM: pT2a,N0,MX.

\OOOQO‘lUI-Ihbth—

Effective _ , is Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Comment

The bladder tumor has a very unusual morphology in that it shows dense solid
growth of predominantly epithelioid cells with focal spindling and few loose
myxoid areas. The epithelioid tumor cells are high grade, have modest
amphophilic cytoplasm and with brisk mitotic activity. In addition, numerous
osteoclast—like giant cells are distributed all throughout the tumor. Foci of
tumor necrosis are also present.

Immunohistochemical stains performed show that the tumor cells are nuclear
positive for GATA3 and with rare nuclear positivity for p63. Keratin Cam5.2, CK7
and CKZO are negative. The positivity for GATA3 and p63 are supportive for
urothelial carcinoma. Controls appropriate.

Rare occurrence of osteoclast-like giant cells n'ch carcinoma, similar to the
current case, has been reported in the urinary tract. The few cases previously

reported showed an aggressive biologic behavior, see reference.

On part C, the right lymphadenectomy specimen shows large soft tissue deposits

of carcinoma, which may represent overgrowths from a lymph nodal tumor
metastasis. No normal lymph node tissue however is identified. Of note, right
pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed previously (together with ureterectomy,

. which was negative for tumor. Nodal status for the current bladder tumor
is most consistent with N1.

Reference:

1. Baydar D, Amin MB, Epstein J I. Osteoclast-rich undifferentiated carcinomas of
the urinary tract. Mod Pathol. 2006;19:161-71.

xx
[] MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:
Patient is an year-old male with high-grade urothelial carcinoma undergoing
radical cystectomy, prostatectomy, and lymph node dissection.

Specimens Received:

A: Left pelvic lymph node

B: Bladder, prostate, left and right vas differens
C: Right pelvic lymph node

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in three containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "Left pelvic lymph node".
Received in formalin is an aggregate of yellow-tan, soft, and lobulated tissue
fragments ranging in size from 1.1-1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
dissected to reveal 10 lymph node candidates ranging in size from 0.3-1.3 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted as follows:

A1: 3 lymph node candidates

A2: 2 lymph node candidates

A3: 2 lymph node candidates

A4: 2 lymph node candidates

A5: 1 lymph node candidate

A6: 1 lymph node candidate

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder, prostate, left

and right vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 250 g, 12.5

x 7 x 6 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 8.5 x 6.5 x 3 cm bladder
with attached mesenteric fat and a detached 3.2 x 2 x 1.7 cm probable tumor (or

prostate). The right seminal vesicles and right vas deferens are not clearly
identiﬁed and a structure resembling the right seminal vesicles measure 1.5 x
1.5 x 0.4 cm and there is no identiﬁable right vas deferens structure. The

left vas deferens is not clearly identiﬁed and the left seminal vesicles
measures 2.5x 1.5 x 0.4 cm and a structure resembling the left vas deferens
measures 3 x 0.4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 0.6 x 0.4 cm end
demonstrates an intact, patent lumen. The left ureteral stump is absent and the
left ureteral resection margin is taken where the ureter enters the bladder and
is submitted as B3.

The right half of prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is inked
black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra. The
fragments of the outer surface of the tumor fragment are white-brown and shaggy.
Sectioning demonstrates a diffuse, homogenous, ill-deﬁned, firm, white-tan.

The opened bladder reveals a 1.8 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm raised, soft, red-pink lesion on
the anterior wall designated as lesion #1, a 4 x 1.8 x 0.3 cm raised, soft,
red-pink lesion on the inferior posterior wall and right inferior lateral wall
designated as lesion #2, a 2.5 x 2.5 cm left posterior wall hemorrhage, and a
1.4 x 1 x 0.2 cm raised, soft, red-pink lesion on the mid left lateral wall
designated as lesion #3. There is also an aggregate of firm, white-tan tumor
fragments, free ﬂoating within the bladder lumen and measuring 11 x 5 x 3 cm.
On cut section, lesion #1 extends into the muscularis propria and grossly into
the perivesical tissue and is close to the deep margin. On cut section, lesion

#2 does not extend beyond the mucosa, and lesion #3 does not extend beyond the
mucosa and is 1.0 cm from the deep margin.

There is a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm rubbery, white-tan, mass which is in the muscle
layer of the left lateral anterior wall and extending into the perivesicular
adipose tissue.

The surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, wrinkled, congested, pink—tan with
a uniform 0.1—0.2 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent to
the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Bl: Right ureter resection margin

82: Distal prostatic urethral margin

B3: Left ureter resection margin (insertion into the bladder
B4-B 10: Representative right and left of probable tumor (rule out prostate)
Bl l—Bl3 Lesion #1 (closest to deep margin B13)
Bl4-Bl6 Lesion #3 (closest to deep margin Bl6)

Bl 7-B19: Lesion #2

BZO: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome

821: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall

822: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall

B23: Uninvolved bladder mucosa trigone

B24: Uninvolved bladder mucosa right lateral wall
B25: Uninvolved bladder mucosa left lateral wall

826: Possible tumor deposit 0.3 cm from deep margin
827: Representative vas deferens and seminal vesicles
B28-B30: Representative free ﬂoating tumor fragments
B31-32: Additional free ﬂoating tumor fragments
B33-B38: Additional possible prostate

B39-B44: Additional free ﬂoating tumor fragments

C. The third container is additionally identified as, "Right pelvic lymph
node“. Received in formalin is an aggregate of yellow—tan, soft, and lobulated
fiber adipose tissue fragments ranging in size from 1-1 .5 cm. The specimen is
dissected to reveal for lymph node candidates ranging from 0.5-1.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates are submitted as follows:

C1—C3: 1 lymph node candidate, bisected (each cassette)
C4: 1 lymph node candidate

xxx
[] MD

1 Tss‘: be M“
bee, Lt”

 

A; MM’W Foam Skj'mﬁ W5

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form V4.00

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Penn should be completed when the padlologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for m is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed hr the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS'; TSS Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: . . ,
Completed By (Interviewer Name on OpenClinica): ; 7 Completed Date:
[Mods information
it Data Element Sag: Alternatives W Instructions
, . Provide the diagnosis] hlmlodc subtype“) discontented on
Pathologic Diagnosis 5 'W“ ﬁ-WW'L’ Jk +,.,¥.,il amnion Wmforthhcm limehlsmlogfor
1 Provided on initial . , _ "“3“” I! mind. PM”! Ill “and NW
Pathology Report ”SW“ ‘ I" 3"”‘1‘ “M "V!“
L) FMW
HIStDIOgC feamm 0f Mh all hm km “W on III. TCGA use
2 the sample provided muscle invasive urothelial carcinoma QM" ““m' '°"" “W '°' '1‘” “"
for TCGA. as reﬂected
on the CQCF.
[Discount-tween Molog RepmudCueQmiRyConu'ollom
3 Provide the reason for Provid- mmn rmIMWEVﬁI-magummw
the discrepancy A’ ”WNW °" ‘3' mm
Ween the pathology in. 'iumai’ IS am WMmeCGACauQueinyConmlFom
report and the TCGA -
Case Quality Control “Md" ’“W'S‘W Uw'ex
Form.
Cou- anom lkk‘Lﬁ 3 unfit.
to life Nor PM 103144111
vat/turf? C mi'urK,
Name of TS Reviewing Provide the name aid» padlolodstwho reviewed thisceso
4 Pathologist or '0' TC“-
Bloreposimry Director
Immemuuubpumqumnmuauwmmuaquwm
_ .- E .e I f
_ TSS'Revrewing _ , "oi-.05.“ or Blorepositor'y Director I Date I.

v

Immanumnpmummbywwumnmmammmmmmwu meamramocorm
mmtmim-mmwunmnqmmmmmm

I

 

 

Principal investigator Signature l/ Date

