UUID: 50622F48- -1228- M11— 9997- C7446A9R38ec253c
TCGA- UZ- -A9PK- 91A- PR

III II II I III I II II IIIIIIIII IIIIII| I IIIIIIIIII IIHIIIIIIII I IIIIIII III II IcIIad
|I|IIIIII||||||II IIIIIIIIIIIII ||||||||||I
||| ||IIIII|II|| IIIIIII I IIIII IIII IIIIII I III II IIII I IIIIIIIIIII |||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Accession #: ”

Patient Narii‘______w '*

Med. Rec.#: Visit #: p Service Date:
DOB: Sex: Ma e Received:
Soc. Sec. #: Location: - Client: -

Physician(s): h

    

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left kidney, "anterior mass", excision: Papillary renal cell carcinoma with
multiple small papillary neoplasms in adjacent kidney; see comment.

B. Left kidney, Gerotas fascia adjacent to mass, excision: No tumor identiﬁed.
C. Left kidney, “perimaas fa ", excision: No tumor identiﬁed.

1). Leﬁ: kidney, "tumor mass #2", excision: Oncocytoma with multiple small
papillary neoplasms in adjacent kidney; see comment.

E. Perirenal fat: No tumor identiﬁed.

1-". Left kidney tumor mass #3, excision: Papillary renal cell carcinoma with
capsular disruption and multiple small papillary neoplasms in adjacent kidney; see

t. . C)
“mm“ W W31 Mill/M11410!) 9&653/3
© H05 i: <4 9
COMMENT: @412” Md (ya) a] 301/ 4

All three tumor resection specimens contain multiple papillary neoplams. In parts A and F, the dominant
tumors are composed of papillary excrescences lined by realatively small cuboidal to low-columnar cells
with primarily clear cytoplasm. The epithelial cell nuclei are moderately enlarged and round to oval with
small nucleoli. The papillae contain ﬁbrovascular cores, some with prominent foamy macrophages. The
histology is that of type I papillary carcinoma. Hemorrhage and psammoma bodies are seen throuphout the
lesions. In part A. at least four additional microfoci of papillary proliferations similar to the dominant
mass cell carcinoma are seen in the adjacent grossly normal renal parenchyma. in part F, a 1.2 cm
dominant papillary renal cell carcinoma is seen in association with three additional microfoci of papillary
prolierationsare seen in the adjacent renal parenchyma.

in part C, a 0.8 cm dominant mass composed of nests of cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and

a Page 1 of3

 

small round nuclei With prominent nucleoli is seen in association with two microfoci of papillary neoplasia.

While the the minute papillary proliferations fall short of the size criterion for the diagnosis of papillary
renal cell carcinoma (they are < 5 mm in diameter) their histolgic resemblence to the deﬁnitive loci of
papillary renal cell carcinoma and the ﬁnding of multifocal papillary renal cell carcinoma suggest that these

small lesions may have more in common with papillary carcinoma than with isolated small tumors of the
type that are called adenomas.

in part F, the renal capsule adjacent to the dominant tumor is disrupted, however, it is not clear that this is
tumor capsular penetration as oppsed to artifact associated with specimen handling and transport.

Select slides were shown at the departmental and the faculty in attendance
concurred with the above diagnoses.

Kidney Tumor Synoptic Comment

-Histologie type: Renal cell carcinoma, papillary (chromophil) type (type 1).
-Grade: 2

-Maximum tumor diameter: 2.7 cm.

-Site within kidney: Multifocal.

Renal pelvis: Not present.

-Ureter: Not present.

~Rensl sinus: Not present.

-Hilsr renal veins: Not present.

-lntrarenal veins and lymphatics: Normal, no tumor.

-Adrenal gland: Not present.

-Capsulelperirenal fat: Tumor does not penetrate capsule.
Jilin lymph nodes (number positive] number of nodes): N / A.
-Resection margins: Negative.

~Proximity to nearest margin: 0.! cm (part A).

~Stage: pTlNXMX. »

 

Specimen(s) Received
A:Anterior mass of left kidney
leerotas

CzPerimass fat

D:Left kidney tumor mass #2
E:Perirenal fat

F:Left kidney tumor mass #3

Clinical History
The patient is soyear-old man with a left renal mass. He undergoes partial nephrectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in formalin in six parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is additionally labeled ”anterior mass left kidney.” It consists of a single fragment of brown renal
tissue, notable for a single nodular mass protruding from the capsular surface. The specimen measures
3.5 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm. The mass measures 2.7 x 2.4 cm and protrudes above the capsular surface 1.1 cm.
The surface of the mass is partially covered by a thin, translucent membrane, which is partially retracted.
The specimen is unoriented. The kidney resection margin is inked with black ink. The specimen is serially
sectioned, revealing a hemorrhagic, partially cystic mass that appears to inﬁltrate the renal cortex. The

mass approaches to within 1 mm of the black-inked margin. The specimen is entirely submitted in
. cassettes A1 through A7.

“ Page 2 of 3

 

A m I -
Part B is additionally labeled "Gerota's, ink marks area adjacent to mass, suture marks external margin.“ it
consists of an irregular fragment of lobulated, yellow, adipose tissue, measuring 7.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm.
Opposing sides of the roughly flat tissue fragment are partially epithelialized; one side is inked with purple
ink, and the other is marked with a black suture. These represent the sides adjacent to the tumor and
external surface, respectively. The inked surface is notable for focal areas of ﬁbrous nodularity. The
sutured surface is glistening, smooth, and unremarkable. The specimen is inked as follows: inked surface
is re-inked with blue ink, and the sutured surface is inked with black ink. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

Cassettes Bl-B2: Region of slight nodularity in the area of heaviest initial surgical inking.

Part C is additionally labeled "pen-mesa fat renal tumor.“ It consists of a single discoid fragment of
lobulated, yellow. adipose tissue, measuring 6.0 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm. One surface is notable for a roughly
circular fragment of ﬁbrous membrane, measuring 3.0 x 2.5 cm. The surface of the membranous structure
is smooth, glistening, and without lesions. The membrane area is inked with black ink. The specimen is
serially sectioned, revealing unremarkable lobulated, yellow, adipose tissue. A representative section is
submitted in cassette C1.

Part D is additionally labeled "left kidney mass #2." it consists of a single roughly spherical fragment of
tan-brown, soft tissue, measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.4 cm. The tissue consists of a fragment of renal tissue and
capsule surrounding a variegated tan and red-brown mass that projects above the renal surface a distance
of 0.6 cm. The specimen is not oriented. The surgical margin is inked entirely with black ink. The
specimen is serially sectioned, revealing a punctate. cystic, hemorrhagic cut surface with focal areas of
bright-yellow material located peripherally. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes 01 through D3.

Part E is additionally labeled "prerenal fat." it consists of a single irregular fragment of lobulated, yellow fat
and associated gray—white, ﬁbrous membrane as well as some adherent red-brown material. suspicious for
clot. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette El.

Part F is additionally labeled "left kidney tumor mass #3." it consists of three fragments of tissue. The
largest fragment is tan / red-brown renal parenchyma, measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. A portion of renal
surface with disrupted capsule is present and is notable for a single somewhat dome-shaped lesion,
measuring 1.2 x 1.0 cm and projecting approximately 0.3 cm above the renal surface. The lesion is
variegated red-brown and yellow. The surgical margin is inked with black ink. The specimen is serially
sectioned, revealing a somewhat granular, tan-yellow lesion that irregularly inﬁltrates the subjacent renal
cortex. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes Fl through F3. The additional two tissue
fragments are red-brown and tan, unoriented, irregular tissue, measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm in aggregate.

The tissue appears to represent fibrous tissue as well as blood clot. This tissue is entirely submitted in
cassette F4.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist

following review of all pathology slides.
“ethology Resident —Patholo ist
Electronically signed out on ‘

 

Reviewer

W Page30f3

 

