w Encounter Date: —

EA5C87
UUID: DESGBS338- -1AEC3- -44AA- -A38RE- ADFCIB Redacted

III IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII SURGUL PATHOLOGY (0rd
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III a._

Patient Name Sex DOB

; ,.. , . .. .¢ lap/0-3
carcinomog WFO-Ihgh'd ,NOS
/ Specimen #: — 9'08

, Submitting Physician: ~ 5 k; b‘ (5%
I a W whoa/l
9.1417. K0 Che-7. 3

 

Results

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
1. Right distal ureter, biopsy (A) - Benign ureter, negative for neoplasm.
2. Left distal ureter, biopsy (B) — Benign ureter, negative for neoplasm.

3. Urinary bladder, radical cystoprostatectomy (C) - Invasive high—grade
papillary urothelial carcinoma, 4.2 cm.

—The tumor invades through muscularis mucosa (lamina propria) and deeply
involves the perivesical fat.

— Extensive lymphovascular invasion present.

- Bilateral ureteral, urethral and soft tissue resection margins are
negative for tumor.

— Two perivesical lymph nodes, positive for metastatic urothelial
adenocarcinoma (2/2).

4. Prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (C) — Adenocarcinoma of the
prostate, Gleason score 3+4=7, involving less than 5% of the total
prostatic tissue.

— The tumor is confined within the prostate.

— Bilateral seminal vesicles and prostatic resection margins are negative
for tumor.

5. Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision (D) - Seven lymph nodes, negative for
malignancy (0/7).

6. Left common iliac lymph nodes, excision (E) - Four lymph nodes,
negative for malignancy (0/4).

7. Left paraaortic lymph nodes, excision (F) — Three lymph nodes, positive
for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (3/3).

8. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision (G) - Eleven lymph nodes, negative
for malignancy.(0/ll)- ,

9. Presacral lymph nodes, excision (H) - Three lymph nodes, positive for
metastatic urothelial carcinoma (3/6).

10. Right common iliac lymph nodes, excision (I) — Four lymph nodes,
positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (4/4).

.............................................. — ’ —— . . .. . .. , . .. .. m... ...._...A A. ____. 0...... WM... .. . -.............,. 4—;
-. I

M -.»9"' COMMENT I:r_n_erI: _______ _______ __%zi_._I_ﬁo __I

I .

.I I

l

|

 

 

_Diagr. .30 =i<D m rp ".1
. Ql: I’el‘ISE'QD

    

”I 3‘; —W 17:: litgtI W
- > _ !-_..- CI‘IZ—Eﬁ [472244;

Encounter Date: —'

 

3. Specimen Type: Radical cystoprostatectomy

.

Tumor Size, Greatest dimension: 4.2 cm
ﬁistologichypezi Urothelial carcinoma

Urothelial Carcinoma: (WHO/ , High-grade

Adenocarcinoga and_§quamous Carcinoma: N/A
, . I
Associated Epithelial Lesions: Flat urothelial carcinoma in situ

Margins:
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Present
Direct Extension of Invasive Tumor: Perivesical fat
Pathologic Stage:

Primary Tumor: (pT)
pT3b: Macroscopically invades perivesical fat (extravesical mass)

Regional Lymph Nodes: (pN)

pN2: Metastasis in multiple lymph nodes (true pelvis)
'Specify: Number examined: 37; Number involved (any size): 12
Distant Metastasis (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed

4. Gleason score: Primary 3, Secondary 4, Total 7

% of 4 and/or 5: 1-10%

% of 3: 91-100%

Androgen deprivation effect: Negative
Apical involvement: Negative
Apical margin involvement: Negative

Extraprostatic extension (EPE): Negative
Margin: Negative

Bladder neck shave: Negative
Areas of involvement: left peripheral zone
Principal area of involvement: left peripheral zone
Focality: unifocal
Volume Low
Greatest dimension of larger tumor nodule: 2 mm
Ejaculatory duct apparatus: Negative
Seminal vesicles involvement (SVI): Negative
Peri-SV involvement: Negative
Vas deferens: N/A
Peri-vas involvement: N/A
High—grade PIN: Present
Neuroendocw‘f’f erentiat ion: Negative
Lymph nodes: ee bladder template
Diameter of largest lymph node metastasis (mm) N/A
Lymphovascular invasion: Negative

(f (.4- f.

Page 2 of5

I” swam—-

‘Other diagnoses: Atrophy and inflammation

Pathologic Stage: pT2a, pNO, pr

(Electronic Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED

A: RIGHT DISTAL URETER

B: LEFT DISTAL URETER

C: BLADDER AND PROSTATE

D: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

E: LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODES
F: LEFT PARA AORTIC LYMPH NODES
G: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

H: PRE-SACRAL LYMPH NODES

I: RIGHT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODES

CLINICAL DATA
BLADDER CANCER

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
A. Negative for neoplasm (Dr.

,8. Negative for neoplasm (Dr.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "right distal ureter" is a
specimen consisting of red-tan soft tissue with a central lumen measuring
1.5 x 0.8x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen as FSAl.

B. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled "left distal ureter" is a
specimen consisting of one fragment of red-tan soft tissue with a central
lumen measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for
frozen as FSBl.

"

C. Received in formalin labeled "bladder and prostate" is a specimen
consisting of a bladder and prostate measuring 17 x 10 x 5 cm. The specimen
has been previously opened anteriorly. The bladder is inked black and the
prostate is inked yellow on the left and blue on the right. The prostate
measures 6 cm transversely, 4.5 cm anterior posteriorly, and 5 cm
craniocaudally. The seminal vesicles are unremarkable. The prostate shows
no masses or lesions. The bladder reveals a large fungating mass in the
left anterior wall measuring 2.3 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm. Inferior to this mass
stretching from the anterior to the left wall is an ulcerated area
measuring 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The area of ulceration abuts the left ureter
orifice. Additionally seen is a focal area of hemorrhage in the posterior
wall measuring 0.4 x 0.2 cm. Sectioning reveals the area under the ulcer
and fungating mass to contain an infiltrative firm white lesion which
extends to 0.5 cm from the inked black soft tissue margin. The remainder
of the bladder mucosa is unremarkable. The prostate shows no masses or
lesions. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cl distal right
ureter, C2 distal left ureter, C3 urethral margin, C4 left apex, C5 right
apex, C6 3 mm left anterior, C7 3 mm right anterior, C8 3 mm left
posterior, C9 3 mm right posterior, C10 6 mm left anterior, C11 6 mm right

m Page3of5

”I! Encounter Dam.—

,anterior, C12 6 mm left posterior, C13 6 mm right posterior, C14 mid left
anterior, C15 mid left middle (inked anterior), C16 mid left posterior, C17
mid right anterior, C18 mid right middle (inked anterior), C19 mid right
posterior, C20 base left anterior, C21 base left lateral posterior, C22
base left mid medial posterior, C23 base right anterior, C24 base right
posterior, C25 left seminal vesicle, C26 right seminal vesicle, C27 ulcer
(submitted inferiorly to superiorly), C28—C29 deepest extent of white mass
under ulcer, C30 ulcer with fungating mass, C31—C32 ulcer with mass, C33
remainder of mass, C34 remainder of mass (totally submitted), C35 superior
bladder wall, C36 urethra, C37 posterior bladder wall with hemorrhage, C38
right bladder wall, C39 right ureter representative section, C40 left
ureter with area of ulceration, C41—C42 possible lymph nodes.

1 , F
D. The specimen is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "left pelvic
lymph nodes" and consists of a 6.5 x 6.0 x 1.0 cm segment of fibroadipose

tissue. Sectioning reveals seven nodules consistent with lymph nodes. These
nodules are submitted in cassettes D1~D3.

E. The specimen is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "left common
iliac lymph nodes" and consists of 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm segment of
fibroadipose tissue. Sectioning reveals four nodules consistent with lymph
nodes. These nodules are submitted in cassettes El—E4.

F. The specimen is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "left
para-aortic lymph nodes" and consists of two nodules surrounded by
fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 6.0 x 2.7 x 2.2 cm. Sectioning reveals a
solid mass with red-tan parenchyma with areas of granular appearing
parenchyma which is more of a yellow tan color. Sections are submitted as
follows: F1 smaller nodule, bisected, F2-F3 representative sections of the
larger nodule.

G. The specimen is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "right
pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of an 8.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm segment of
fibroadipose tissue with multiple nodules contained within. These nodules
are submitted as follows: Gl—GZ multiple nodules, G3 single nodule
sectioned, G4 five nodules, G5 three nodules.

H. The specimen-is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "presacral
lymph nodes" and consists of a 4.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm segment of fibroadipose
tissue with nodules consistent with lymph nodes contained within. The
specimen is submitted as follows: Hl-HZ fibroadipose tissue with multiple
nodules, H3 single nodule, sectioned.

I. The specimen is received fresh at the surgical desk labeled "right
common iliac lymph node" and consists of a 6.0x 4.0 x 1.0 cm segment of
fibroadipose tissue with multiple nodules consistent with lymph nodes
contained within. Sections are submitted as follows: Il—IS nodules, one per
cassette.

Patient ID #:
DOB: (A e:‘
Date of Report:
Date of Procedure:
Date of Receipt:

I

     
 
 

I” Page4of5

H Encounter Date“

‘Submitted by:1
Location:
Test performed by:

Lab and Collection

_. I . ‘ - _ ..

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Order ' 1141'. Lab and Collection Information
Result History
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Orde Order Result Hislo Re ort.

Result Information

Result Date TIme Status Provider Status
Final result Reviewed

MyChart Status... .
This result is currently not released to

Display Full Result Repgn Display Order Report
I
p u.-
live; i
9191-. w. A.

M PageSofS

