Criteria
—‘
Dialng‘sls Dl::repancy

 

 
  
    

.5 V” 'Nn
M —41 units uv r‘luueuule.
x /

 

 

taxi-mo! site Discrepancy

I owe an. ——-___.._ ,
PriorMilisnaficyZIslow — $i .Head & Neck Date of Receipt.
Dual/Synchronous Prir. . ‘ Head And Neck Date of Report.
Cue is (circle): _ y D Account #:
neviewerliilial . ,- . \\ .Blmng Type:

Ref. Source:

  

Additional Copy to:

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:

year old '

with right thyroid nodule, FNA showing PTC.

n

Specimens Submitted: A ' l I

13 Right paratracheal "Ode (f3) uum:usenam-cm—mr-asss-£4Acaccusaa7

2: To rule out right lower parathyroid (fs) TCGA-DJ-ABVS-OlA-PR Redacted

35 SP'gtWt right Uppe|r parat‘rilyroidhirsid f III II II I IIIIIIIIIIII I III IIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII IIIII IIII _
3; L;?nplftr11%:igol;tgfafjl?:tth‘: riéiipai‘i? «if S) III II I I II IIIII I IIII II I IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIII III "
6: Right levels 3 and 4 lymph nodes, neck III IIIIIIIIIIII"III“II“I"IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII”I" "
7: Total thyroidectomy i \_,

8: Rule out right lower parathyroid

 

IDIAGNOSIS:

n‘

1. Paratracheal, right. lymph node : biopsy(fs):
'-Metastatlc papillary thyroid carcinoma to three of three lymph nodes (3/3). The largest metastatic node ls 0.6 cm in greatest
size and completely replaced by tumor. No extra-nodal extension seen.

2. Parathyroid. right. lower; biopsy(fs):
-Benign thymic tissue.

3. Parathyroid ,right upper ; biopsy(fs):
~Benign parathyroid tissue.

4. medlastinum, right ,superior, lymph node, excision(fs):
«Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma to one of one lymph node. The metastatic node is 0.8 cm in greatest size and completely
replaced by tumor. Extra-nodal extension is seen.

5. Lymph node, lateral to the right recurrrent laryngeal nerve, excision (fs):
- Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma to one of one lymph node. The metastatic node is 0.3 cm in greatest size and
completely replaced by tumor. Extra-nodal extension is seen.

6. Right levels 3 and 4 lymph nodes, neck: I 0049/3 H
Part # 6 -
Lymph Node Dissection: Ca rC I ”m , WI It“ r"/ I M“ “

Metastatic papillary carcima of thyroid

Number of lymph nodes examined: 10 83%“ I 3

Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2 _

SiZe of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.7cm. .' $1.. -

Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.2 cm. 514‘ ”I {Did ’ N 03

Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed C 73 I q 5 , 7’ 4 z

 

«20

 

Page 1 of 5

’44“-

7. Total thyroidectomy:

Part# 7
Tumor Type: .
Papillary carcinoma, tail cell variant 3 507: {ad ad W P‘” ﬂ; /a/

Mitotic Activity:
Not identified

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identified

Other Tumor Features:
Psammoma bodies
Tumor Location:
Right lobe

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 2.5 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
Partially surrounded

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
invades: pen-thyroid ﬂbroadipose tissue

Surgical Margins: .
Tumor is present at the anterior margin.

Tumor Multicentricity:
Separate focus of papillary microcarcinoma in right lobe (0.3 cm)

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):
Not identified

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:
No abnormalities identiﬁed

Parathyroid Glands: .
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Perinodal (extracapsuiar) extension not identiﬁed
Metastatic carcinoma in 1 of 1 node. Metastatic focus is 0.15 cm.

 

8. Parathyroid, right ,lower; exclson:
-Benign ihymic tissue

IATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

if
*‘* Report Electronically §lgned OW"

 

Gross Description:
ﬁ W

Page 2 of 5

 

1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled

"Right paratracheal node" and consists of a portion of

pink-tan soft tissue measuring 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
F SC - frozen section control

2). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled

"To rule outright lower parathyroid" and consists of a

portion of pink tan soft tissue measuring 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

«la-um ',

3). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled

"Rule out right upper parathyroid" and consists of a

portion of pink-tan soft tissue measuring 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

5
.mmrumwd

 

4). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled

Ii

"Right superior mediastinal lymph node" and consists of

a portion of pink-tan soft tissue measuring 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section and

permanent section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control
U--remainder of tissue

thm“, -

5). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled

"Lymph node lateral to the right RLN" and consists of a

portion of pink-tan soft tissue measuring 0.7 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC ~ frozen section control

fﬂquv'Wl-Flz-mm. . , ,

i ., . P

6). The specimen is received in fonnalln, labeled “right levels three and four lymph nodes, neck“ and consists of multiple pink tan
firm lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph node

33

surface is covered by a thin fibrous capsule. The specimen ls previously inked blue anterior black posterior. Sectioning reveals a
2.5 x 1.4 x 1 cm ovoid, tan-white to tan-white, mottled, focally encapsulated nodule in the right mid pole which abuts both the
anterior and posterior capsular aspects. invthe upper right-pole is a tan-white, unencapsulated nodule which abuts the posterior
capsular aspect. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red tan and beefy. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
RLN - right lobe nodule
RL - right lobe

 

Page 3 of 5

LL - left lobe
is - isthmus

i F

8). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Rule out right lower parathyroid" and consists of an irregular tangray soft tissue
measuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U -undesignated

Summam of Sections:

Part 1: Right paratracheal node (f5)

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 FSC 1

Part 2: To rule out right lower parathyroid (fs)

Block Sect. Site P63
1 FSC 1

Part 3: Rule out right upper parathyroid (fs)

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 . FSC 1

Part 4: Right superior mediastinal lymph node (ts)

Block Sect. Site PC:

1 FSC 1

1 U 1 “*

Part5: Lymphmiaterartoiﬁé'rig'mmN'ttsYW ' .2..._ vs... " ".‘r » .
Block Sect. Site P63

1 FSC 1

Part 6: Right levels 3 and 4 lymph nodes, neck

Block Sect. Site P'Cs "-'

1 BLN 2

2 LN 6

Part 7: Total thyroldectomy

Block Sect. Site P65

1 IS 2

3 LL 9

2 RL 4 '
9 RLN 1 0

Part 8: Rule out right lower parathyroid

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Intraoperative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the lntraoperative
consultation.

 

Page 4 of 5

_, ,.,. ,.,

Frozen section diagnosis: Right paratracheal node(fs): Suspect papillary thyroid carcinoma

Permanent diagnosis: same '—

Frozen section diagnosis: To rule outright lower parathyroid (is): Lymphoid versus parathyroid tissue, defer
Permanent diagnosis: see final ‘

Frozen section diagnosis: Rule out right upper parathyroid (is): Parathyroid tissue
Permanent diagnosis: same

Frozen section diagnosis: Right superior mediastinal lymph node (is): Papillary thyroid carcinoma (‘d
Permanent diagnosis: same ,

Frozen section diagnosis: Lymph node lateral to the rigth RLN (is): Suspicious for carcinoma '
Permanent diagnosis: same may

 

Page 5 of 5 END OF REPORT

