 

 

 
  
 
 

erntariﬂl,1i.§igwgﬂii—rﬁﬁﬁ}{if “ " "
Accession #:
AcctIReg #:

   

 
 

Collected:
Received:
Reported:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT . ‘ ‘ ' '

W735 W33”, rah s W.

     
 
  

 

   

    

M

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Lymph node. tevel 9L, excision:
Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).

B. Lymph node, level 5, excision:
Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed. '

C. Lymph node. level 7, excision:
Total number of lymph nodes received: Two (2).
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
Frozen section diagnosis continued.

D. Lymph node, level 5, #2, excision:
Total number of lymph nodes received: One (1).
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero (0).
Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

l'l'l

. Lung, left, pneumonectomy
Tumor Characteristics:

. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

. Tumor site: Left upper lobe.

. Tumor focality: Uniiocal.

Tumor size: 4.5 cm.

. Visceral pleurat invasion: Present.

. Lymphovascuiar space invasion: Present.

. Tumor extension: Tumor conﬁned to the tung.

. Treatment effect: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:

. Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 4.5 cm.

. Tumor distance from parenchymal (stapled) margin: Not applicable.

3. Tumor distance from pleura! surface: Tumor present at pieural surface.
Lymph Node Status (from Parts A-E):

. Total number of lymph nodes received: Six (6).

. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: One (1).

. Extracapsular extension: Present, with invasion of the adjacent artery wall.
Other:

. Other slgnilicant ﬁndings: None.

. Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

3. pTNM stage: pT2aN1MX.

moowmgro-mM—x

Mm:

CAN—5

”—5

 

 

 

 

Current NCCN practice guidelines recommend determination of EGFR and KRAS mutation status in adenooarcinoma of lung to help select patients for
Tyrosine-Kinase inhibitor (T Kl) therapy. EGFR—activating mutations have been shown to be signiﬁcantly associated with response to TKls and KRAS
mutations are associated with TKI resistance. They are mutually exclusive in NSCLC. Additionally. recent data show thatALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma
Kinase) gene rearrangements in adenocarcinoma of lung are associated with resistance to TKls and have favorable response rates to Crizotinib, the ALK
inhibitor agent currently in clinical trials. Mutation analysis for KRAS and EGFR-TK domain and ALK gene rearrangement by FISH is available as the
Lung Cancer Mutation Panel. Testing may be performed on parafﬁn—embedded tissue from the primary or metastatic tumor or pleural ﬂuid cell block.

These tests are available on request as a panei or as individual assays.

     

unﬁt???

 

CLtNICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Malignant neoplasm bronchllung.
Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptomisadlologic Findings:

 

SPECIMENS:

. Level 9L left lung.

. Level 5 lymph node left lung.
. Level7leitiung.

. Level 5 LN #2.

. Left lung.

1110003}

   

is -
GROSS DESCP'DTION‘
A. ContainerA at 9L left received is a 1.2 x10 x 0.3 cm. portion of shaggy, focally anthracotic tissue. The specimen is trisected and

submitted in cag‘;se_tt_e_A1 labeled

B. Conta ..... m, Level 5 LN tett lung received is a 2.2 cm. in greatest dimensions portion of fatty to focalty anthracotic tissue. A portion of the
tissue is swarmed ror rrozen section. The frozen section remnant 'us re~5UDMilt8d for permanent in cassette 31 labeled The
remaining tissue is submitted in cassette 82 labeled ”mm ‘ ‘

C. Contains .. _ Level? received are two up to 1.0 cm. in greatest dimensions anthracotic lymph nodes. Both lymph nodes are submitted for
frozen section. Frozen section remnant is resubmitted for permanent in cassatte C1 labeled

D. Contains vol 5 LN #2 received is a 0.3 cm. in greatest dimensions anthracotic lymph node witnattached fatty tissue. The lymph
node is subr...neu rorrrozen section. Frozen section remnant is resubmitted for permanent in cassette Di labeler

E. Container. lung received is a 706.3 gram lelt pneumonectomy consisting of a 24.0 x 12.4 x 4.2 cm. upper lobe and 19.5 x 8.7 x 3.9
cm. lower lobe. the pleura is predominantly smooth, ten to slightly vloiaceous, focally puckered near the mid aspect of the superior upper tube; the
pleura at this area is inked black. The lung parenchyma deep to the puckered pleura reveals a 4.5 x 2.7 x 2.0 cm. indurated, fairly circumscribed, tan-
white tumor which extends to the pleura and is 4.5 cm. from the bronchial resection margin. The bronchial and vascular resection margins are free of
tumor. At the hilum, there is a 3.8 cm. in greatest dimensions indurated, anthracotic, lymph node vs. questionable tumor nodule. The lung parenchyma
of the upper lobe is diffusely spongy, tan—brown, with focal emphysematous change. The parenchyma of the lower lobe is homogeneously spongy, tan-
br0wn with no nodules or mass lesions. The bronchial resection margin is submitted for frozen section.

Representative sections are submitted for Genomics studies in two cassettes labels-

The frozen section remnant ‘0 m “"':"""“" ‘or permanent in cassette E1 labeled 77539. Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted
in cassettes labeled lows: E2-—vascular resection margins; E3 — E5 tumor to inked pleura; E6 - E7 representative nodule at
hillim' E8«-representative remaining upper lobe; E9-—representative lower lobe.

INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
FSA: Negative for‘tumor, no lymphoid tissue present.

FSC: Negative for tumor {012).
FSD: Negative for tumor (011).

mrggchial margin - negative for tumor. .. -

 

 

 

