Pathology Report

Final Diagnosis

A. SPLEEN, SPLENE-CTOMY:
Spleen with no signiﬁcant pathologic changes-
There is no evidence of malignancy.

3.. STOMACH, POSTERIOR GASTRIC WALL TUMOR, RESEGTlON:
Consistent with leiomyosarcoma.
Tumor size 9 x 4 cm-

The surgicai margins are involved by tumor.

6. STOMACH, POLYP NO. 1, BIOPSY:

Gastric mucosa with foveolar cell hyperplasia and parietal cell hyperplasia.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

D. STOMACH, POLYP NO. 2, BIOPSY:

Gastric mucosa with foveolar and parietal cell hyperplasia.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

E. STOMAGH, ADDITIONAL POSTE’RIOR GASTRIC WALL, RESECTION:
Gastric mucosa with foveolar and parietal cell hyperplasia.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

I - the attending pathologist personaliy reviewed all
slides and / m: materials and rendered the final diagnosis .Eiectronically
Signed Gut by

Comment

Part B: This is tumor composed of intersecting spindle cells with cellular pleomomhism, a mitotic rate
of 67' mitosesi25 high-power fields, and no evidence of tumor necrosis. The tumor is positive for actin,
desmin, and focally and weakly positive to: CD34. The tumor is negative for 881 17 and keratin.

These results support the above diagnosis. The stains were performed on block 81 with appropriate
controls.

Specimexﬂs) Received

SPLEEN

POSTERIOR GASTRIC WALi. TUMOR
GASTRIC POLYP #1 FS

GASTRIC POLYP #2 FS

ADDITIONAL POSTERIOR {anemic WALL FS

”19003)

1434) 3 /
Clinical History mejmwfwﬂlb N05 3’3 90 03

GASTRIC LEiOMYOSARCOMA.
”1W 0 LI? 0
WM 1M (Jud—Q9 GM“ 5?

Q4) Mia/W

Intraoperative Consultation
A. SPLEEN:
No gross lesions identiﬁed. Will hold small piece of spleen, if needed, in flow labs-

Peir Dr. _
F801: FUNDIC GLAND POLYP:
Benign gastric tissue-

FSE‘l: ADDITIONAL POSTERIOR GASTRIC WALL:
Benign gastric tissue.

Comment: This frozen section diagnosislresult was communicated to and acknowledged by Dr.

I, MD, have performed the innaoperative consultations and issued the above
diagnosis.

Gross Description

A. Received fresh, labeled “spleen” and consists ofan intact dark red-Ian splenectomy
specimen, 288.9 g, $6.4 x 7.8 x 4.5 cm. The capsule is intact, pitted and dull. Sectioned, the cut
surfaces exhibit deep red, smooth, glistening parenchyma with moderate white pulp. No lesion or
cysts are noted. Focal hemorrhage is identiﬁed (5%)- Representative sections are submitted in
A1-A4 as labeled:

A1: Spleen, full thickness with capsule

A2-A4: Random sleep

The specimen is not submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory.

B. Received fresh, labeled "posterior gastric wall tumor” and consists of an unoriented, grossly
distorted, indurated, gastric mass, T401 9, 18.5 x 9.0 x 8.5 cm. The mass is roughly ovoid, with an
ulcerated cavity with thickened (34 cm} heaped up border, 9 x 4 cm. The mucosa is tan-gray and
extensively nodular with granularity and there are smooth, glistening loci absent of normal mucosa.
The serosa is intact, smooth and inked black with attached soft tissue, 21 x 19.5 x 3.5 cm; 1{he
serosa is inked black. Sectioned, the mass cut surfaces reveal whitepale gray, smooth, wooded,
tabulated, viable tissue involving the entire mass. The tumor invades the mucosa, extending 4.5 cm
depth and replaces submucosa and muscularis propria; but. does not invade the serosa. There is
minimal necrosis seen. No hemorrhage, cyst or calciﬁcations are noted. Lymph nodes of the soft
tissue are not isolated. Representative sections are submitted in 31—81 7 as labeled:

31-85: Mass with serosa

5661 QzMass with mucosa

311-815: Random central mass

816: Representative of lateral margin

B1 T: Representative of opposite lateral margin

The specimen is submitted for i, as reﬂected in cassette 315-

(‘3. Received fresh for frozen section consult, labeled “gastric polyp No. 1" and consists of a 4 mm
pink, soft nodule- The specimen is submitted entirely intact in F501.

The specimen is not submitted for

D. Received fresh for frozen section consult, labeled "gastric polyp No- 2" and consists of a pale
tan—gray, ovoid, rubbery nodule, B x T x 5 mm. The nodule is submitted entirely intact in FSD‘i.

The specimen is not submitted for

E. Received fresh for frozen section consult, labeled ”additional posterior gastric wall: stitch -true
margin" and consists of an oriented, elongated, mbbery, gastric excision, 9.3 x 3.1 x 1.4 cm. The
mucosa is pale gray with multiple foci of hemorrhage. There is a chalky white, ﬁrm, deﬁned lesion, 2.?
x 1.4 cm, 2 cm from resection margin. The serosa is ragged. with scant soft tissue. The cut surfaces
show conﬁnement of the lesion to the mucosa, with no involvement of other structures. No necrosis,
hemorrhage or cyst is noted. Representative sections are submitted in FSEt-EQ as labeled:

FSEt-FSEB: Frozen section of true margin, tangential
E4423: Gastric lesion, entirely
E9: Normal gastric mucosa

The specimen is not submitted to '

 

