UUID : 3A3C6F93- ZSBB-MES~94E4-2FA31ED689AA
TCGA-BM-ABdS-OlA-PR

lllllllllllllllllIllIlIlllIllllllllIlIlllIlIllIlllIIIIIIIﬁIIIIIIIced
III“ II lIlIllllIII I III IlllllIll
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllIIlIllllllllIlIllIllllIIllIlllIll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #:
LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: M DATE RECEIVED:
DOB: TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:
2w- (:3 :5

95mm . MmﬁAM/uwngbldfﬁ exile/6 -

. Iver lesron history of gastric cancer , MES (2H: 5
B: subtotal astrectom r“ ‘ LULL '

9 v U I] . 5mm @001)th

r. )A.) ﬁltﬁZ’I/‘I

year-old male with a clinical history of gastric cancer.

A. Liver, l‘liver lesion", biopsy:
Benign calciﬁed hyaline nodules (x 2).

B. Stomach and lymph nodes (12), subtotal gastrectomy:
Stomach: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma (see checklist).
Intestinal metaplasia and marked chronic inﬂammation.
Lymph nodes (15): There is no evidence of malignancy in ﬁfteen lymph nodes (0/15).

mm;

W
Specimen Type: Sub-total gastrectomy
Tumor Site: Lesser curvature
Tumor Configuration: Exophytic
Tumor Size: 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm
Surgical Margins:
Proximal Margin: 0.6 cm
Distal Margin: 13.0 cm
Circumferential (Radial) Margin: Invasive tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa and is < 0.1cm

from the inked circumferential margin, however the tumor does not penetrate the serosa.
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated
Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion: Present
Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion: Absent
Perineural Invasion: Present
Lymph Nodes:
Number Examined: 15
Number Involved: 0
Prognostic Markers: Ordered. See for addendum Image Analysis report
Additional Pathologic Findings: Intestinal metaplasia
Gross Picture Taken: No

 

MR #: Page 1 of 2

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Number:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #2 ALT ID #:

Pathologic Staging: pT2b N0 MX

pT2b: Tumor invades subserosa

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
pMX: Cannot be assessed

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reﬂects only current pathologic data and does not incorporate full
knowledge of the patient's clinical status and/or prior pathology.

mm
By this signature. I attest that I have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.

mElectronically Signed Out By‘“
Interpreted by:

A. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "liver lesion" is one fragment of tan-brown soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x
0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted for frozen section in cassette A1 FS.

B. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "subtotal gastrectomy" is a portion of stomach measuring 17.0 cm along
the greater curvature, 11.0 cm along the lesser curvature, and 10.0 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is tan-brown, smooth and
glistening with a focal area of induration measuring 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The stomach is opened along the greater curvature to reveal a
3.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm exophytic mass with raised borders. The mass is located 0.6 cm from the proximal margin and 13.0 cm from
the distal margin. Grossly the tumor does not extend through the serosa. The rugal folds are grossly unremarkable and the
thickness of the gastric wall ranges from 0.3 cm to 0.5 cm. The attached omentum measures 30.0 x 20.0 x 5.0 cm. It is serially
sectioned to examine for lymph nodes. The specimen is submitted as follows:

33-812 - Entire mass

B13 — Distal resection margin

B14 - Representative sections of normal appearing stomach
315-323 — Possible lymph nodes

824- Three possible lymph nodes, all bisected

325- Three possible lymph nodes two bisected.

326- One lymph node

A1 FS. liver. "liver lesion":
Benign calcified nodule (x 2).

B1 FS, stomach, "subtotal gastrectomy", margin:
Negative for carcinoma.
Intestinal metaplasia and reactive changes.

BZFS, stomach. "subtotal gastrectomy", margin:

Representative section of tumor, adenocarcinoma.
Tumor is submitted for

If immunohistochemical stains and/or in situ hybridization are cited in this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the

, in compliance with CLIA'88
regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of “analyte speciﬁc reagents” and are subject to speciﬁc labelinu mm Iil‘ﬂmnnte in. um :nA Vnnuvn
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the

It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such cIearance or approval
IS not necessary.

 

MR #2

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

r/«W/r

 

