uum: Acamca- -4Ae7- G-14E5:AA-%7IZ— —285730F35C87dac ted 1623-0 '3

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllll 5 ma.
IIIIIIIlIIlIIIIIIIIIIIII lllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllll Uaﬁﬁhﬁ 5 3670/3

lll ll ll Illlll llllllllll
llllIlIIIllIlllIIlllllllllllIIIllllIllIllllllIll I
llllllllllllllll Efﬁe 60%} blow/015%

. 664/, 3
Histopathoiogy Report

HISTORY (.940 54/7/l5

Lobectomy for carcinoma.

MACROECOPIC
Six specimens are received.

1: The first specimen is labelled "R middle lobe, R lower lobe, R upper lobe"

and consists of right middle and lower lobes with a small stapled wedge of

upper lobe superiorly. The specimen measures 165 x 75 x 45 mm with the stapled
wedge of upper lobe measuring 70 x 30 x 30 mm. There is a ﬁrm mass with
overlying pleural adhesions at the apical aspect of the lower lobe, measuring

52 x 50 x 35 mm. On sectioning, the mass has a pale sclerotic appearance and

is centrally cavitatecl. The cavity measures 12 mm across. The tumour extends
to apparently involve the lateral pleural surface and it extends close to the,

pleura on the medial aspect; In this region it extends into a bronchus. There

is possible involvement of the upper lobe but the tumour appeals well clear of
the stapled upper lobe resection margin. No other focal lesions are identified

on sectioning and there are no other endobronchial lesions. [Bronchial and
vascular resection margin, 1A; perlbronchial lymph nodes, 18; tumour with
overlying pleura, 1C-IE; tumour and upper lobe resection margin, 1F; tumour and
medial surface of lung, 1G; further section, 1H; tumour and proximal bronchus,
1!; random section of lung, 1.1.]

2: The second specimen is labelled "upper lobe lymph node" and consists of two
pieces of lymph node, 17 x 15 x 7 mm and 15 x 11 x 8 mm. {Each piece bisected
and blocked in toto, 2A]

3: The third specimen is labelled "No. 11 lymph node" and consists of three
pieces of tissue measuring 18 x 15 x 8 mm in aggregate. [Largest piece
bisected and all tissue wrapped and blocked in toto, 3A]

4: The fourth specimen is labelled "No. 7 lymph node" and consists of pieces of
fatty tissue measuring 45 x 30 x 15 mm in aggregate. [BIT, 4/348]

5: The fifth specimen is labelled "No. 8 lymph node“ and oonslsm of a piece of
lymph node measuring 18 x 10 x 6 mm. [Bisected and BI‘ij

6: The sixth specimen is labelled "No. 9 lymph node“ and consists of lymph node
with surroundino fat measuring 35 x 16 x 8 mm. [Blsected and BIT]

MECROSCOPIC

1: Sections show a poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with central
cavitation. The cavitation appears to be due, at least in part, to vascular
invasion by tumour which is present at multiple sites throughout the sections.
Tumour invades into overlying parietal pleura but appears clear of the soft

a Mim'xmwhléw‘m.Wﬂw'" v” "" “

Page 2 of 2

tissue resection margin. No lymphatic invasion is seen, and peribnonchial

lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma. The upper lobe resection
margin is well clear of malignancy. Proximaily the tumour has a protruding
endobronchial component but no in situ squamous carcinoma is found, and the
bronchial resection margin is clear of malignancy. Focal perineural invasion

is found towards the hilum. Lung parenchyma adjacent to the tumour shows
organising pneumonia, while more distant lung parenchyma is unremarkable.

2: Sectionsshow reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and several silicotlc nodules,
but there is no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

3: Sections show small loci of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in one of
the lymph nodes.

46: Sections show reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and scattered silicotic
nodules, but there is no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.

SUMMARY

Right middle and lower lobectomy, partial resection of right upper lobe and
lymph node sampling:

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of apical segment of right lower
lobe, 52 mm in diameter.

Invasion of parietal pleura present, but soft tissue resection margin clear of
malignancy.

Extensive vascular invasion present.

Focal perineuml invasion present.

No lymphatic invasion found.

Metastatic carcinoma in no. 11 lymph node.

Pathological stage T3 N1.

Fieported

T-ZSUOO M'80703 Pl-OBOOO

 

ANATOMR‘JIL PATHOLOGY

Report generated:

 

   
     
   
   
    

:viterll .
amen-2515 Dlscrwmcy‘ ‘ .
’nmary Tumor Site Drscrepamy
“PM Discrennncy
lrim Malignancy illstnrv __
Mal/Synchronous Onman \ I Dlsnwmﬁm

