Date Coll: -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN

Level 11 node
Level 9 node
Level 8 node
Level 7 node
Level 5 node
Left lower lobe

W m U 0 w W

CLINICAL NOTES

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. [The specimen is] Received unfixed labeled "level 11
node" and consists of two pieces of black soft tissue
measuring 1.5 cm. in greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.
B. Received unfixed labeled "level 9 node" and consists of
a piece of black soft tissue measuring 0.5 cm. in greatest
dimension. AS-1.
C. Received unfixed labeled "level 8 node" and consists of
a piece of red and black soft tissue measuring 1.6 cm. in
greatest dimension. AS—1.
D. Received unfixed labeled "level 7 node" and consists of
two pieces of gray soft tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.5 x 0.3
cm. in aggregate. AS-1.
E. Received unfixed labeled "level 5 node" and consists of
three pieces of red and black so t ue measuring 2 cm.
in greatest aggregate dimension. AS-1.

F. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left lower

lobe" and consists of a 193 gram lung lobe measuring 17 x
11.5 x 3.5 cm. At the narrow and probable and superior edge of the
specimen there is an area that is firm by palpation that measures 3
cm. in greatest dimension on external palpation. There is some
slight puckering of the pleural surface in this area. Additional
sections after fixati ortion of the specimen is taken for
research purposes.

Block summary: 1 — bronchial margin; 2 — next level of bronchus;
3-6 tumor with adjacent stapled margin; 7,8 non-tumorous lung.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes
pieces.
B. There is no evidence of malignancy in a single lymph node piece.
C. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes
pieces.
D. Metastatic carcinoma is present in one of 2 lymph nodes. The
metastasis measures 1.8 mm in greatest dimension. No extranodal
tumor is seen.

E. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes.

Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma

Tumor grade: 2-3 of 3

Mitotic Index: 24 mitoses/10 HPFs (1 HPF = 0.19 sq mm)
Tumor size: 2 cm

Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy
Pleura: Negative for malignancy

Vascular invasion: Absent

Attached lymph nodes: None

pTNM Stage: T1 N2

Non-tumorous lung: Focal endogenous lipoid pneumonia

F .
3x5,4
DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node,
There is
pieces

B. Lymph node,
A single

C. Lymph node,
There is
pieces

D. Lymph node,

level XI, biopsy:
no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes

level IX biopsy:

lymph node is negative for malignancy

level VIII, biopsy:

no evidence of malignancy in any of 5 lymph nodes

level VII, biopsy:

Metastatic carcinoma is present in one of 2 lymph nodes

E. Lymph node,
There is

level V, biopsy:
no evidence of malignancy in any of 3 lymph nodes

F. Lung, left lower lobe, resection:
Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma

——— End Of Report ---

