  

Final DiagnoSis V lam—o - 3
Left kidney. resection:

ll ‘ ma, onv ntionalclearcell e. l
Renalce carcmo c e typ 22, Z l! N05

Fuhrman grade 2. .
Tumor size: 5.3 cm in greatest dimension. ‘
Tumor appears conﬁned to the kidney. 541.7. (L) #5 N0
N0 extension into perirenal fat. 9
No lymphovascular invasion.

No renal vein invasion. q?) 7/ 32/ ' 3
Negative vascular margin.

Negative ureteral margin.

Benign adrenal gland.

AJCC pathologic staging data: QT1b,NX. "”10egggﬁgﬁﬁ-gﬁgga-vsuzsnﬁseoazcted
lllll

Ill lllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllll
Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
||| lllllll l llllllllllllll Ill IllllllllllllnlIIIIIIIHIIIIIllI'll'l'l'l'll Elli

 

Clinical information

Left kidney ‘rnase.

Gross Description

‘A. Left kidney." The specimen consists of a 219 gram. 11.6 x 6.2 x 5.5 cm kidney with a small amount of attached perinephric
fat. Attached to the kidney is a 2 cm in length x 0.4 cm In diameter portion of ureter. The cortical surface is gray.pink. The
specimen has previously been blvalved and there is a 5.3 x 4.8 x 4.1 cm soft yellow-tan focally hemorrhagic mass which
grossly appears to abut the cortical surface and comes to within 0.1 cm of the surrounding fat. The surrounding fat has been
inked black. The mass does not grossly appear to involve the collecting system. There is no dilatation or compression of the
collecting system by the mass. The remaining renal parenchyma is red-ten and mildly congested. No additional masses or
areas of interest are grossly identiﬁed. Adherent to the kidney is a~3 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm yellow-tan portion of adrenal gland. The
previously described renal mass comes to within 0.1 cm of the adrenal gland. The adrenal gland has a yellowbrown cut
surface and no masses or areas of Interest are grossly identiﬁed. Lymphoid tissue is not grossly identified at the renal hilum.
"A1.“ ureter and vascular margins: “A2.“ renal mass with adjacent radial margin; "AS-M." renal mass: 'A5.‘ renal mass with
adjacent parenchyma; "A6." renal mass with adjacent adherent adrenal gland.

Received with the specimen for research purposes is 1 yellow cassette labeled 1 green cassette labeled
' . and 1 blue cassette labeled -

Performing Lab

 

3/ Q/é

