UUID:653244OD-FBD5-4A26-“BB-44077556
TCGA-MK~A4N6-61A-PR 4978

um mmuumummmmmum: mm“
mm nnmuIllllluiiiilim"

Results

H!
l Illllllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllllllllll Hllllllllllllllll

———

l
l
1

Collection Information

Collection Date Collection Time Resulting Agency
ICE 0 ' 5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY . . .
Cd/r‘blﬂbma/ [gov/)afj gym;
.3 I 91’: 896615
77L? ro i1, NAB
PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS 073.9
A. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PAROTID, EXCISION: 9a)” [24 ”2

- ONE LYMPH NODE POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC PAPILLARY THYROID
CARCINOMA (l/l LYMPH NODE)

B. THYROID, TOTAL THYROIDECTOMY:

- PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA

- TWELVE (12) LYMPH NODES IDENTIFIED, EIGHT (8) LYMPH NODES
POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA (8/ 12)

Specimen size: 8.7 cm in greatest dimension
Specimen weight: 160 grams

Tumor focality: Unifocal

Tumor size: 8.2 cm in greatest dimension
Histologic type: Papillary carcinoma, classical type
Histologic grade: G1 (well differentiated)

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Tumor capsular invasion: Present (to soft tissue, minimal extent)
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal extension: Present

Pathologic Staging:

- pT3

- leB (see below C, D, E and F)

- Number examined: 77

- Number involved: 40

- Lymph node, extranodal extension: Present

- pMX

C. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT PARATRACHEAL NECK, DISSECTION:
- TWO LYMPH NODES IDENTIFIED, TWO LYMPH NODES POSITIVE

FOR METASTATIC PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA (2/2)
- SOFT TISSUE EXTENSION OF PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA

D. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT PARATRACI-IEAL NECK, DISSECTION:

- TWO LYMPH NODES IDENTIFIED, TWO LYMPH NODES POSITIVE
FOR METASTATIC PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA (2/2)

- EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION PRESENT IN ONE LYMPH NODE

E. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT NECK, RADICAL DISSECTION:

- FIFTY-NINE (59) LYMPH NODES IDENTIFIED, TWENTY-SIX (26)
LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC PAPILLARY THYROID
CARCINOMA (26/ 59)

F. LYMPH NODE, PRETRACHEAL, EXCISION:
~ ONE LYMPH NODE IDENTIFIED, POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC
PAPILLARY THYROID CARCINOMA (1/ 1)

Staff Pathologist

Intraoperative Consultation

Intraoperative Frozen Section Diagnosis

FSA, TPA: Lymph node, right parotid, excision:

- Positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/1 lymph node)

Pertinent Clinical Information
Papillary thyroid cancer.

Gross Description

Specimen Material: (A) Right parotid lymph node, (B) Total thyroidectomy,
right neck dissection, (C) Right paratracheal neck dissection, (D) Left
paratracheal neck dissection, (E) Right radial neck dissection, (F)
Pretracheal lymph node.

The case is received in six parts each labeled with the patient's name,
medical record number and given accession number

and it is accompanied by a requisition form labeled with the same
name and same accession number.

Part A: The specimen is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis labeled

"RIGHT PAROTID LYMPH NODE" and consists of a 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm, tan-brown,
rubbery to soﬁ, possible lymph node. The specimen is bisected to reveal a

1.1 x 0.7 cm tan-brown to red, variegated possible lymph node, with the

remainder of the surface being yellow and irregular. Touch prep is

performed. A representative portion of the possible lymph node is submitted

for frozen section diagnosis as F SA]. The remainder of the specimen is

submitted in its entirety in cassettes A2-A3.

Part B: The specimen is received fresh labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number "TOTAL THYROIDECTOMY, RIGHT NECK DISSECTION" and
consists of a 160 gram, 8.7 x 6.8 x 4.8 cm, unoriented total thyroidectomy
specimen with attached soft tissue. The surface of the specimen is tan-pink

to tan-purple, nodular and irregular. The specimen is unoriented and is

noted to be markedly distorted. The entire surface of the specimen is inked

in blue. Sectioning reveals a heterogenous mass measuring 8.2 x 5.5 x 4.6

cm. Approximately 65% of the mass displays a tan-brown to yellow, smooth to
papilliferous cut surface with multifocal hemorrhage and necrosis, resulting

in a soﬁ consistency. The remaining portion of the mass consists of a
tan-brown to yellow, smooth cut surface with a ﬁrm consistency. The mass
displays a discontinuous tan-brown, ﬁbrous capsule. The mass focally abuts
the blue inked surgical margin. There is a minimal amount of remaining
uninvolved thyroid parenchyma, which displays a beefy red cut surface. No
parathyroid glands are identiﬁed grossly.

The specimen displays three areas of attached soft tissue; each located
approximately 180 degrees from the other. These areas are arbitrarily
designated soft tissue area 1, soft tissue area 2, and soft tissue area 3.
Sectioning through area 1 reveals a yellow to tan-brown irregular to
lobulated cut surface with multiple tan—brown, rubbery possible lymph nodes
ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning through area 2
reveals a 4.5 x 2.3 x 1.6 cm ﬁrm, tan-brown possible lymph node.
Sectioning through area 3 reveals multiple tan-brown, rubbery, possible
lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Bl: tumor to soft tissue area 1

81-3: tumor to soﬂ tissue area 2

B4: tumor to soﬁ tissue area 3

BS: multiple possible lymph nodes from area 1

B6: one possible lymph nodes from area 1, bisected
B7-10: one possible lymph node from soft tissue area 2, serially sectioned
B11: multiple possible lymph nodes from area 3

B 12: one possible lymph node from area 3, bisected
B13: tumor to blue inked margin

B 14: tumor to surrounding tissue

B15: tumor to blue inked margin

Bl6: friable portion of tissue

B17: representative solid portion of tumor
B18: representative solid portion of tumor
B19: tumor to capsule

B20: friable portion of tumor

821: representative solid portion of tumor
322: tumor to normal

323: representative tumor

824: uninvolved thyroid

Part C: Received in formalin labeled "RIGHT PARATRACHEAL NECK DISSECTION"
and consists of a 3.1 x 3.1 x 1.4 cm aggregate of tan-brown to yellow, soft,

irregular tissue which is sectioned and palpated to reveal multiple

tan-brown, rubbery possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.9 cm in

greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cl: one possible lymph node, bisected

C2: one possible lymph node, bisected

C3: multiple intact possible lymph nodes

Part D: Received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and number

"LEFT PARATRACHEAL NECK DISSECTION" and consists of a 3.2 x 2.6 x 0.9 cm
aggregate of tan-brown to yellow, irregular to lobulated soft tissue which

is sectioned and palpated to reveal two tan-brown, rubbery possible lymph

nodes measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm and 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm, respectively.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

D1: one possible lymph node, bisected

D2: one possible lymph node, bisected

Part E: Received in formalin labeled "RIGHT RADICAL NECK DISSECTION" and
consists of an unoriented portion of ﬁbrovfatty tissue measuring 16.9 x

13.2 x 3.1 cm, to include a partial sternocleidomastoid muscle (11.5 x 7.7 x

3.1 cm), partial jugular vein (4.9 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter),

and attached soft tissue. No submandibular gland is identiﬁed. The

specimen is arbitrarily designated into the following levels:

Level 1 (largest portion of muscle and adjacent adipose tissue)

Levels 2, 3, and 4 (presumed inferior portion of sternocleidomastoid muscle

and jugular vein, with adjacent soft tissue)

No level 5 is identiﬁed

The sternocleidomastoid muscle is sectioned to reveal a beefy-red, striated,
unremarkable cut surface. The adipose tissue from level 1 is sectioned and
palpated to reveal multiple tan-brown, rubbery possible lymph nodes ranging
from 0.2 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension.

Level 2 is sectioned and palpated to reveal multiple tan-brown, rubbery
possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension.

Level 3 is sectioned and palpated to reveal multiple tan-brown, rubbery
possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.7 to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension.

Level 4 is sectioned and palpated to reveal multiple tan-brown, rubbery
possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

El-E2: representative sternocleidomastoid muscle

E3: representative jugular vein

E4: ﬁve possible level 1 lymph nodes

E5: seven possible level llymph nodes

E6: six possible level 2 lymph nodes

E7: two possible level 2 lymph nodes, bisected, one inked in black and one
inked in blue

E8: one possible level 2 lymph node, trisected

E9: six possible level 3 lymph nodes

E10: one possible level 3 lymph node, bisected

E1 1: four possible level 4 lymph nodes

E12: four possible level 4 lymph nodes

E13: one possible level 4 lymph node, bisected

E14: one possible level 4 lymph node, bisected

Part F: Received in formalin labeled "PARATRACHEAL LYMPH NODE" and consists
of a 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm aggregate of yellow to tan-brown, soft, irregular

tissue which is sectioned and palpated to reveal a 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm,

tan-brown, rubbery possible lymph node. The specimen is submitted in its

' entirety in cassette F.

Pathology Resident

Microscopic Description

A: H&E-stained sections of the lymph node show metastatic papillary
thyroid carcinoma with multiple psammoma bodies.

B: H&E-stained sections of the thyroid gland show a neoplasm consisting of
branching papillae. The epithelium covering the papillae is comprised of
well differentiated, uniform, orderly cuboidal cells. The neoplastic cells
display ﬁnely dispersed chromatin wth intranuclear pseudoincluion and
optically clear nucleus with eccentric nucleolus (Orphan Annie appearance).
In addition, occasional nuclear grooves are seen. Scattered psammoma bodies
are identiﬁed. The tumor exhibits extracapsular extension, invading into

the surrounding soft tissue, with nests of tumor focally surrounded by dense
ﬁbrosis. The tumor approaches the inked margin; however, the margin is
free of carcinoma. F ocally, cystic change is present within the neoplasm.

In addition, foreign bodies consistent with suture material are identiﬁed,

and are surrounded by reactive fibrosis. The residual uninvolved thyroid

parenchyma is unremarkable. No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is
identiﬁed (despite multiple tumor metastases in the lymph nodes). Within
the surrounding soft tissue, twelve lymph nodes are identiﬁed, and eight of
the lymph nodes are positive for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
(also see below C, D, E and F).

C: H&E-stained sections show two lymph nodes with surrounding soft tissue.
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma is present in both lymph nodes.

There is metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma present within the soﬁ

tissue.

D: H&E—stained sections show two lymph nodes, both of which are positive
for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma. One of the lymph nodes shows
extracapsular extension of the carcinoma.

E: H&E—stained sections show ﬁfty-nine lymph nodes. Twenty-six lymph
nodes are positive for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma. Focally,
extracapsular extension is present. There is occasional cystic change
within the lymph nodes. The sternocleidomastoid muscle, jugular vein, and
surrounding soft tissue are otherwise unremarkable.

F: H&E-stained sections show one lymph node, which is positive for
metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma.

This case was reviewed by the staff pathologist listed below.
Pathology Resident
“Electronically Signed Out**

Staff Pathologist

  
    
  

£11m .. ' * "
Eaansslibiscrmanry

Tumor T

     
 

AA
rim

‘1

    
   

vmwcrl

  

"Etna

   

la”?

 

