UUID : 41CDFB48- 33A6-4FCD-97CA- 30C73A9E6FED

 

TCGA-AS-ABSJ-OlA-PR Re acted
ll llllll'iill'llllillli illiiillll'llll'llilli"
= III||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Patient: I Itocession Number:
Hospital No: Pathologist. Greeting M.D.;
Date of Birth: Assistant: ,
AgelSex; Date of Procedure: -' Copies To:
Date Received:
Location:

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Wm” Addendum — Please See End of Report "mm”
Reason for Addendum #1: Additional shrdiesistainslopininn(s)

DIAGNOSIS:

A. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Left ovary with endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous differentiation.
F'IGO Grade 2 Pm 1‘55 7, g - _
- Tumor'size: 20.5.cm ‘ a? I)
- Benign fallopian tube
~ Tuboovarian serosai adhesions and reactive mesothelial reaction

8. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
~ Benign ovary with surface stromal proliferations
- Benign fallopian tube.
- Tube-ovarian serosal adhesions and reactive mesothelial reaction
- No tumor present

0. UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

~ Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous differentiation. FIGO Grade 2.
involving the upper endocervix, lower uterine segment and uterine corpus, see
comment
- Endocervical mucosal involvement with fecal endocervical stromal invasion

(slide C12)

- Superﬁcial myometrial invasion present
- Few intravascular tumor cells identiﬁed, see comment

- Single intramural leiomyoma, 3.0 cm

- Uterine serosal adhesions

D. SIGMOID ADHESION, BIOPSY:
- Fibrovascularized tissue withfibrosls and reactive mesothellal proliferation
- No tumor present

 

E. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE, EXCISION: m6" 3
. One lymph node, negative for tumor (OH) 6‘ . ‘ “m; -\
mtg: 'i’ﬁ/i‘l‘lfl “52
F. LEFT PARAAORTIC, EXCISION: . M SBSOZB
- Four lymph nodes. negative for tumor (014) MM
6. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION: 5 h. , ﬂdﬁw ncI’LLLLt \ ”Li I
- Five lymph nodes; negative for tumor (015) «D C b .
H. RIGHT COLON ADHESION, BIOPSY: ' C 2! I 1 )4}
— Fibrlnous and ﬁbrous adhesion, O 6/ /
Patient Case(s):
Copy For:

Page 1 of 9

".09“. aﬂrumium . Please 380 End of Rev-Inst ”’*“"“*
PATIENT: ACCESSION S:

- Negative for malignancy

LAPPENDlx;APPENDECTOAIY; y
- Benign appendix with acute serositis and adhesions.
— Negative for malignancy

J. OMENTUM, “#1”, PARTIAL OMENTEGTOMY‘:
. Omental fat with focal adhesions, patchy acute and chronicinflammaton and
reactive mesothelial reaction
- Negative for malignancy

K. OMENTUM, “#2". PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:
.- Omental fat with focal adhesions, patchy acute and chronic inflammaton and
reactive mesothelial reaction
~ Negative for malignancy

L~ OMENTUM, “#3", PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:

- Omenial fat with focal adhesions, patchy acute and chronic inflammaton and
reactive mesothelial reaction

. Negative for malignancy.

M. UMBILICAL HERNIA. REPAIR:

- Fibrovascularized tissue with patchy acute inflammation and focal hemosiderin
laden histiocytic reaction
- Negative for malignancy

COMMENT: There is endometrioid adenocarclnoma Involving the left ovary and the endometrlurn.
The former Is presenting as a 20.0 cm mass. The endomeh'ial tumor Involves the the endocervical

mucosa and stroma (slide CZ). These two tumors are favored to represent synchronous primary
neoplasms. Sections of the endometrlal tumor show few foci of intravascular tumor cells
(example slide C12). It Is uncertain ifthese represent true lymphovascular' Invasion or artifactual

displacement of tumor cells. Definite endometriotlc Implants are not Identified although there are

extensive serosal adhesions, focal hemoslderln laden marcophages and reactive mesothellal cell
reaction.

Selected slides were also shown to _ (slides A10 ovarian tumor. CZ for endocervlcai
stromal invasion and 612 for possible lymphovascular invasion).

Macroscopic

 

 

 

Procedure: Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral eaipingo-
oophorectomy
Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph nodes
Para~aortic lymph nodes-
Microscopic
Histologic Type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, nototherwise
characterized
Histologlc Grade: FIGO' grade II
Tumor Site: Corpus
Fundus
Lower uterine segment
Tumor Size: Cannot be determined (see Comment)
SURBiCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PageZols

"****“** Addasa'mn - Please See End of Rep-W" *MW
PATIENT: \OCESSION it:

Commands): Involvesthe entire endometrial cavity both
anterior and posterior wall

Myometrial invasion: Less thanvsoei: myometrial invasion
Involvement of Cervix: invasion. of cervical stromal connective tissue
Extent of Involvement

of Other Organs: None _ _

Margins: Uninvoived by invasive carcinoma
Lymphovascular Invasion: indeterminate

Pathologlc Staging (pTNM) AJCC 7th Edition 2010}

 

 

 

Primary Tumor (pT): pTZ’: Tumor invades stromai connective tissue of the
cervix, but does? not extend beyond uterus
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of pelvic lymph
nodes examined: 6
Number of' pelvic lymph
nodes involved: ‘ 0»
Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes examined: 4
Number of para-aortic
lymph nodes involved: .0:
Number of common lilac
lymph nodes examined: 0
Number of common iiiac
lymph nodes involved: 0
FIGO Stage: n
SYNOPTIC REPORT:
Applies To:
A; LEFT TUBE AND OVARY FS
Macroscopic
Procedure: Right salpingo—oophorectomy
Left salpingo—oophorectomy
Hysterectomy
Omentectomy
Peritoneal biopsies
Lymph Node Sampling: Performed
Specimen integrity, right ovary: Capsule intact-
Specimen Integrity, left ovary: Capsule intact
Primary tumor site: Leﬂ ovary
Ovarian surface Involvement: Not identiﬁed
Tumor Size: ' Left ovarian tumor. greatest dimension: 20cm
Microscopic
Histologic Type: Endometrioid carcinoma
Histologic Grade: GZ: Moderately differentiated
Summary of OrgansiTissues Microscopically
Involved by Tumor: Left ovary

 

SURGICAL 9ATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 9

”WW “Me-"tum - Please See End of Report WW

 

”new: ACCESSION at:
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed
_ Pathologic Staging (pTNM) (AJCC 7th Edition, 2010) .
Primary Tumor (pT): pT‘l a ': Tumor Ilrnitedto one every; capsule intact, no
tumor cn ovarian surface.
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): ' pNO; No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of lymph nodes identiﬁed: 10
Number of lymph nodes involved: it
FIGO Stage: lA,
HISTORY:

large left Ovarian mass, hemorrhagic ascites; uterine endometrloid adenocarcinoma
ﬁbroid utemsand umbilical hemie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MICROSCOPIC FINDINGS:

See diagnosis.

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:

Cytokeratin 7 (RN?) M 1. (every) Positive-
Cytokeratin 20 {PW31} A1 1 Negative
Estrogen Receptor QL. (SP1 } A1 1 Positive.

COX-2 (EPR2764Y) A11 Positive

FAX-8' A11 Negatlve

FAX-8 c2 (endometrlal) Positive (patchy iii-2+)
COX—2 (EPR2764Y) C2 Positive
Estrogen Receptor QL (SP1) (:2 ‘ Positive
Cytokeratin 20 (PW31) (:2 Negative
Cytokeratin 7 (RN?) or: ' Positive (patchy)

 

 

 

 

 

*These studies were interpreted In conjunction with appropriate. positive and negative controls which
demonstrated the expected positive and negative reactivity.

GROSS:
A; LEFT TUBE AND OVARY F S
Patient name, label: signaled “lelt tube and‘ovary ES"
Specimen type: Leftsalpingo—oophorectomy
Received: Fresh for intraoperative consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in
formalin
Specimen integrity: intact
Specimen weight: 1,745 gram
Specimen size:
Ovary: 20.5): 13.8 x 125 cm in the collapsed/partially collapsed stale
Fallopian tube: 8.1 cm in length, 0:? to 0.9 cm in diameter
Pathologic ﬁndings of ovary:
Tumor: Present
Tumor size: Multilobulated solid tumor replacing the entire ovary;
SURGICAL earaowov REPORT

 

Paganism

Wm” Afirm-“urn — Please See End of Report ““mt
PAﬂENT: Accessrou an

approximately 20 cm; no recognizable residual normal ovarian
tissua identified

Ovarian capsule: Intact
Serosal surface: _ With ﬁbrinous‘adheslons
Ovarian tumor conﬁguration: Muitllobulated _
Cystic tumorcomponent: Cystic/necrotic degeneration; no deﬁnite benign cystic lesion
identiﬁed

Solid tu that component: Predominantly solid (90%)
Papillary tumor component: None identiﬁed
Tu mor necrosis: Present (20—30%)
Intratumoral hemorrhage(s): Present
Tumor—associated Not identiﬁed
calcifications:
Other tumor—associated None
ﬁndings:

Additional (non—neoplastic) ovarian ﬁndings:
Non-neoplastic c'ystls): Not identiﬁed
Adhesionlslz: Present .on eercsal surface
Other findingis): None

Pathologic ﬁndings of fallopian tube:
Tumor: None

Other (non-neoplastic) ﬁndings: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic ﬁndings of adnexal ligaments:
Tumor: Not; identiﬁed
Other (non-neoplastic ﬁndings): None

The gross specimen isphotographed. Representative portions are submitted and a portion Is released'fo.
Tumor Bank.-

Slide key:
A1,, Remnant of FSAi -‘l
A2 Cross section of base of fallopian tube and ﬁmbrla longitudinally hisected- 3

A3,. Mid section of fallopian-tube and surrounding adnexal ligament and soft tissue wt
M-«A’lz Tumor~ 2 each

8. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY FS

Labeled . ", designated "right tube and ovary", received fresh andsubsequently ﬁxed
in formation is an it gram specimen consisting of'a 3,4 x- 17 x02 cnt collapsed ovary'and fallopian tube
(4.5 cm in length and 0.5—0.8 em in diameter}, Within the ovary is a 0.3 cm serosal nodularity. The
fallopian tube. is unremarkable;

The gross specimen is photographed. Representative portions are submitted and a portion is released to.
Tumor Bank.

Slide key;
81. Base and mid cross sections of tube and fimbria longitudinally sectioned ~ 4

82.. Representative ovary with tan-yellow nodule and representative ovary with tawwhite
inlraparenchymal nodule - 2

53. Representative adnexai ligament and representative ovary — 2

C. UTERUS AND CERVIX FS

Patient name, label: , a designated "uterus and cervix"
Specimen type: Subtotal hysterectomy

 

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page-sofa

“v“"n. Addendum ”lease See End of Rennrt mm‘

PATlEN‘I':
Received :

Specimen integrity:
Specimen weight:
.Speclmensize;
Overall uterine dimensions:
Cervix alone:
Vaginal cuff:
Endometrlal cavity:
Endometrlal thickness:
Myometrial thickness:
Left parametrium:
Right parametrlum:

Pathologic findings:
Tumor:
Location:

Size:

Color:

Consistency:

Conﬁguration:

Myometrial invasion:
Grossly- evident. vascular
invasion:

Uterine serosel Involvement:-
Cervioal involvement:
Parametrial involvement:

Other Findings:

Non-neoplastic endometrium:

Endometrial polyp(s):
Leiomyoma(s):

Other myomotrial lesion(s):
Uterine serosa:

Cervix:

Vaginal, cuff:

Additional ﬁndings:

The specimen is photographed.

ink key.
Uterine serosa - black.

ACCESSION '1‘

fresh for intraoperative consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in
formalin

Intact

191 gram

31,0 x 5;4 x4.0 cm _

4.6 cm in length. up to 3.42 cm in diameter
Absent

7.0 cm in length, up to 4.1. cm in width
Ranging from 0.5: up to 2.5 cm in thickness-
Up to 1.5 cm

Absent

Absent

Upper enddcerle, lower uterine segment corpus and fundus
involved

9.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm

Tan~white

F debts/granular

Poiypoid

Present! less than 50% of myometrial thickness

Absent

Absent

Upper endocervix grossly involved
Not applicable

Not evident

Not identiﬁed

Present, One measuring Mix-3.0 x 2,0 cm intramural
None

Hemorrhagic and 'with moderate adhesiuns

Tumor involves upper'endocervix

Not applicable

None-

A portion at tumor is released to the bicrepository per standard operation procedure, Small

representative Sections are submitted,

Slide key";

Ct. Remnant of FSC - 2

62-03. E-ndocervix with tumor x 2 — 2
C4435; Uterine corpus with tumor - t
(36.. Portion of leiomyoma «2‘

C7. Endocervix with tumor - 1

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 5 of 9

WWW' Addendum - Please See End of Report “"m‘m
”new: Accessmu a:

CB. Uterine fundus with tumon ’l

(39. Uterine fundus» with fallopian tube - t

Cit}, (311. Endometrial tumor - 1

(:12. Tumor closest to serosal surface with cervix and tower uterine segment ~ 1
013,014. Uterine oorpus full thickness {nodule in C14) - 1 each

0. SlGMOln Ans-Inert“:

Labeled , V , designated'fsigmoidadhesion", received in formalin are three fragments
of tan-red ﬁbrous tissue measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x {3.4 cm in aggregate with pieces ranging from 11.5 to 2.5 cm

in greatest dimension. No grossly identiﬁable nodules are present. Specimen is entirely embedded.
D1. 3

E. LEFT PEI um i vunu “""E‘

Labeled asignated "left pelvic lymph node“. received fresh for intraoperative
consultation and subsequently tixed in formalin is one lymph node measuring 3.3 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. bisected
and entirely frozen'inFSEL

E1. Frozen section‘remnant of FSE1 — 1

1-22. Remainder of fragment — 2

F. LEFT PADMM‘W

Labeled esignated "left paraaortic", received in formalin is one fragmentof
adipose tissue .ueasunng 2.5 x11? x 0.6 cm. Dissection reveals three iymph nodes ranging from 1.0 cm
to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension.

F‘E. Three possible lymph nodes — 3

F2. Remainder of fat ~ multiple

G. RIGHY PELVIC

Labeled designated"right pelvic"; received in formalin is one fragment of ﬁbrous
fatty tissue measuring 2.3 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm in; Sectioning reveals five possible iymph nodes ranging from
0.5 cm to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The largest is bisected.

61. Largest node bisected - 2

(32. Four possible lymph nodes - 4

G3. Remainder of fat- Multiple

H. RIGHT COLON ADHESION .
Labeled designated “right baton adhesion". received in forrnalln is fragments of
tan-red ﬁbrous tissue measuring 3.5 x 1.1 x 0.2 cm infaggregate, fragments ranging from 0.6 cm to 1.5

cm in greatest dimension. No nodules are grossly identiﬁed. The specimen is entirely embedded.
H1. Multiple

i. APPENDIX

Labeled , designated “appendix” received in formalin is an unremarkable vermiform'
appendix measuring 4.0 cm in length and 0.5 to~0.6 cm in diameter. There are no lesions or perforations
identified

ink key:

Biack — proximal presumed resection margin

Representative sections are submitted.

it. Base'and mid cross sections plus tip longitudinally bisected — 3
t2. Other half oftlp longitudinally'bisected - 1

J. OMENTUM #1

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PageTOfQ

moi-m Adda-«Hum . Please See End of Report “mm"
PATIENT: ACCESSION s:

Labeied designated "emeritum #1“ received in fonnalin is one piece of adipose
tissue measuring 18.1) x 5. 5' x ‘l 0 cm There is one ﬁrm nodule measuring 1.0 cm x 0 9 cm' x O 5 cm. the
rest of the specimen is unremarkable; Representative sections are submitted

J1. Su3picious firm noduie 2

J2-J4 Representative sections of omentum - 1 each

K. OMENTt IM in

Labeled “ designated "omentum #2“ received in formalin' is one piece of adipose

tissue measuring 11 0 x 5 5 x G. 5 cm. Gross palpation reveals no ﬁrm nodules. Representative sections
are submitted

K1- K3. Muitiple each

L. DMENTl IM 11'!

Labeled , designated "ornentum #3”, received in formalin is a piece of adipose
tissue measuring 13.0 cm x 6.0 x 0.4 cm. Cut sectioning and gross dissection reveal no firm nodules or
suspiciousiesions. Representative sections are submitted.

1.1-1.3; Representative sections - muitipie each

M. UMBILICAL HERNIA

Labeled designated "umbilical hernia", received' in formalin is two fragments of
ﬁbrous fatty tissue measuring 6 5 x 2 5 x 1. 0 cm and 3. 5 x 2 O x 1; 5 cm One side of each piece is

covered in smooth glistening, tan- -plnk tissue while the other is ﬁbrous and fatty Representative sections
are submitted.

M1 M3. 2 each

Gross dictated by

lNTRAOPERATiVE CONSULTATlON:
OPERAIiVE CALL

OPERATiVE CQNSULT (FROZEN):
FSA. Left tube and ovary:

« Endometn‘oid’ adenocarcinoma, intermediate grade
F SC1 Uterus and‘cervix:

- Endometrial cavity with endometrioid type adenocarcinoma
FSE', Left pelvic lymph node:
— Lymph node, negative. for metastatic carcinoma

The ﬁndings were communicated to via telephone by

i have personally examined theepecimen, interpreted theresulmi. reviewed the report and signed it-elactronioelly-
Electronically signed

'“ ADDENDUM “*

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL DETECTION OF DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS
RESULTS:

 

SURGICAL FATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 8 019

mm» «Johnna»...t . Please see End Of Raw" meow
PATIENT: ACCESSION #:-

lntact expression of ail four DNA mismatch repair proteins. MLH1, MSHZ, MSH6. and PMSZ.

INTERPRETIVE COMMENTS:
No evidenoe‘for loss of expression of DNA mismatch repair proteins was identiﬁed. Lynch syndrome is
unlikely; However, if Lynchrsyndrome is oiinicallysuspected, MSI testing should be performed and

referral to ' should be considered. even when the iHCand MSI tests are
negative.

lmmunohistochemical Staining Pattern:

  
 

  

car ’ ,.

 

’ MLH‘I

 

 

 

>80%
MSH2 (232 >90%t
MSH6 C1 2 10-20%
PMS2 C12 >90%

 

 

 

 

 

 

lmmunohistoohemistry is approximately 90-95% sensitive. for detection of microsateilite instability (MSI)
compared to PCR~based analysis". lmmunohistoohemicai stains were performed'on parafﬁn-embedded
endometrioid adenocarcinoma tissue using antibodies against DNA mismatch repair enzymes MLHt,
MSHZ. MSH6. and PMSZ. Controls (including internal positive control) wereappropriate for each stain

*PCR based tests for microsatellite instability are not currently available in the

However they can he ordered from another
institution upon request.

l have personatly examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electmnicaily

 

SURGICAL RATHOLOGY REPORT

Innis report mam immﬁetochemmt rest gesture please note the Wm Numerous knmunonistochmcar tests were W and their
performance characteristics delmm’m by

mmnmm have notbeen damdorappmvedbyma US Foodendbmgmmstradon (PM andFDA ersnotrewired

Page 9 of 9

Reviewer Reviewed:

 

 

