 

/Cbra«3
: W Wmhzg w; raw/3

amp/”Wm W" W V/r/n

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
Case Number:

Diagnosis:

A: Uterus and cervix, left fallopian tube and ovary,
hysterectomy with left

salpingo-oophorectomy:

Location of tumor: Endometrium, anterior and posterior corpus,
fundus, and
lower uterine segments

Histologic type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with focal squamous
differentiation <:="“‘—‘==

UUID:C6F976E3-E534-4A34-BS7A—4383FD261553
HistOlOgic grade (FIGO) 2 FIGO 3 \/ TCGA-EY-AZIS-alA-PR RelTllaliI-Ited

IIIIIIIHHIIIIIII|||lllllIllllllllllllllllllllIllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllll
(I):mm):u:.'u.".('.:.".n(.'na)...I."u.............

|||
Extent of invasion: Invasion present m
Myometrial invasion: Inner half
Depth: 4 mm Wall thickness: 1.2 cm Percent: 33% (A6) (see
comment)
Serosal involvement: Not identified
Lower uterine segment involvement: present, involving
endometrium of the
anterior LUS, and myometrial invasion of the posterior LUS (1 mm
invasion of the
posterior LUS (wall thickness 1.2 cm))
Cervical involvement: Not identified
Adnexal involvement (see below): Not identified
Other sites: N/A
Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: Widely free
Lymphovascular Space Invasion: Present (A6, A9, A10)
Regional lymph nodes (see other specimens):
Total number involved: 0

Total number examined: 21

Other Pathologic findings:

 

 

— Cervix: Nabothian cyst, chronic cervisitis

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor
immunohistochemistry results:

ER positive (2—3+, 90%) and PR receptor positive (2-3+, 75%)
(A6)

AJCC Pathologic stage: pTla pN O pr .
EIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: 1A,

These stages are based on information available at the time of
this report, and

are subject to change pending additional information and
clinical review

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
— Atrophic ovary with surface inclusion glands
— No malignancy identified

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- Hydrosalpinx

- Tubal ligation by gross examination
- Peritubal cysts

— No malignancy identified.

B: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, removal
- Five lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/5)
— All tissue submitted for microscopic examination.

C: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, removal
- Two lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2)
— All tissue submitted for microscopic examination.

D: Lymph node, right periaortic, removal

— Eleven lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified
(O/ll)

— All tissue submitted for microscopic examination.

E: Lymph node, left periaortic, removal

— Three lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified
(0/3)

— All tissue submitted for microscopic examination.

Comment:

 

Amendment Comment:
After presentation at (_

clinical request was made to review depth of invasion to further
clarify inner

half ((50%) versus outer half (>50%) invasion, given that
original measurement

was exactly at 50%. Per intradepartmental review, the consensus
is invasion

into the inner half (33%) (A6). Drs. agree (intradepartmental
consultation). Immunohistochemical stain for CD31 was performed
on block A6 and

highlights a vessel around the focus initially measured at 50%
invasion,

demonstrating that this deeper focus is lymphovascular invasion
and not deep

myometrial invasion. Therefore, the stage is amended to pTla
from ple. The

other diagnoses are unchanged. A telephone message was sent to
Dr. regarding this amendment on

Clinical History:
The patient is a ‘-year-old female with endometrial
adenocarcinoma.

Gross Description:
Received are five appropriately labeled containers.

Specimen A is additionally labeled "uterus, cervix LSO".

Adnexa: Present on left side only
Weight: 99.2 grams

Shape: Pear shaped

Dimensions:

height: 9.0 cm

anterior to posterior width: 4.0 cm
breadth at fundus: 6.0 cm

Serosa: Pink/tan and hyperemic
Cervix:

length of endocervical canal: 2.0 cm
ectocervix: Pink/tan and smooth
endocervix: Tan and trabeculated
Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 4.2 cm
width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 3.8 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 8.7 x 3.8 x 0.5 cm

appearance: Tumor is a white/tan, shaggy, soft mass with an
exophytic growth pattern

location and extent: Mass extends from the lower uterine
segment of the anterior across the corpus and fundus to the
lower uterine

segment of the posterior.

myometrial invasion: No apparent invasion.

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.2 cm
other findings or comments: None

Adnexa:

Left ovary:

dimensions: 2.5 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm

external surface: Yellow/tan and vaguely lobulated

cut surface: Yellow/white and whorled

Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 5.5 x 0.7 cm

other findings: Tubes have been ligated in the past;
peritubal cysts

Lymph nodes: Received separately

Other comments: No
Digital photograph taken: No

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor only to
tissue
procurement

Block Summary:

Al - anterior cervix

A2 - anterior lower uterine segment
A3 - anterior left corpus

A4 - anterior right corpus

A5 - anterior fundus, left

A6 — anterior fundus, right

A7 — posterior cervix

A8 - posterior lower uterine segment
A9 — posterior corpus, left

A10 - posterior corpus, right

All — posterior fundus, left

A12 - posterior fundus, right

A13 — left ovary and left fallopian tube

Specimen B is additionally labeled "right pelvic node" and is
received in

formalin. The specimen consists of two fragments of yellow/tan
fibroadipose

tissue with an aggregate measurement of 4.5 x 3 x 1.5 cm. Dense
fibroadipose

tissue. Three lymph node candidates are identified and range in
size from 1.0 up

to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension.

Block Summary:

Bl - One lymph node candidate

B2 — One lymph node candidate

BB—B4 - Largest lymph node candidate, sectioned,

Specimen C is additionally labeled "left pelvic node" and is
received in

formalin. The specimen consists of multiple fragments of
yellow/tan fibroadipose

tissue with an aggregate measurement of 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm.
Dense fibroadipose

tissue. Two lymph node candidates are identified and range in
size from 1.0 up

to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.

Block Summary:

Cl — One lymph node candidate

C2 — One lymph node candidate

C3 — Remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Specimen D is additionally labeled "right periaortic node" and
is received in

formalin. The specimen consists of a single fragment of
fibroadipose tissue that

measures 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.2 cm. Within fibroadipose tissue one
lymph node

candidate is identified and measures 2 cm.

Block Summary:
D1 — One lymph node candidate
D2 - Remaining fibroadipose tissue,

Specimen E is additionally labeled "left periaortic node" and is
received in

formalin. The specimen consists of a single fragment of
yellow/tan fibroadipose

tissue that measures 3.2 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. Within fibroadipose

tissue one lymph

node candidate is identified and measures approximately 2 cm in
greatest

dimension.

Block Summary:
E1—E2 — One lymph node candidate,

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination performed by Dr.

Signature
Resident Physician:
Attending Pathologistz, M.D., PH.D.

I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above
specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis<es).

Electronically Signed by:, M.D., Ph.D.
Date

