 

 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

a ten ame:
Med. Rec. #:

 

DOB. Date of Receipt
Gender. Date of Report
Ref, Physmtan: Account ﬂ:
Patient Address Sitting Type:
Additionat Copy to:

Ref Source

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
Left renat mass >6 cm

Sroimens Submitted:

1: SP: Kidney. left, total nepitrectomy

2: SP: Lymph nodes. prosodic ans para-aortic, dissection

3: SP: Adrenat gland and suprahitar lymph node, left. excision
4: SP: Lyinoh nodes! left hilar. déssectzon

DiAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Kidney. ioft, totat nephrcotomy:
Tumw 'l'ypet
Renat celt cafcinoma - Unctassiﬁod type
Angiomyotipomo, 1 cm in greatest dimension. SEE COMMENT

Fuhrntan Nuclea: Grade:

High nucioa: grade

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter ts 6.5 Cm.

Local tnvamon (tor renal conécai types):
No! identiﬁed

Renal Vein tnvasion:
Not identéﬁod

Surgical Maigins:

Free of tumor

The renal artery exhibits moderate. atheroscieiotic changes with stenosis at the maigin
Non-Neoplastic; Kidney:

MIM artertonepiiz'osclerosis and benign simple cortical cysts (PAS stain supports)

Adrenat (Stand:
See pad 3

Lymph Nodes:
See parts 2 £2 4

Staging for renal celt carcinomaioncocyloma:
pit Tumor <2 7,0 cm in greatest dimension lémited to the kidney

 

 

 

Page t 013

 

 

 

 

COMMENT: the tumor exhibits predominet papillary features with focal solid and clear cell morphology Tumor cetls have large
eosinophilic to clear cytoptasm and pleomorphic nuclei \vrtlr open chromatin and Occasional rruteoli. 8y immunosiains, the turner
was reactive with (3010 and CArtx but negative for AE1:AE3. EMA, GK? and racemsse. Staining [or “(Ft-:3 and TFEB {for
lransloceiion renal colt carcinomas) was atso negative. This overlapping morphology and tmrnunoproﬁte does not allow {er placing
this turner in any of the well recognized categories and is thus deignated UNCLASSIFEED TYPE The morphology along with the

presence of an angle
case was reviewed a

  
  

* tors that we encountered in patients with tuberous sclerosis. This

2. SP: Lymph nod
tymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:17
Segment of benign ureter

3, SP: Adrenal gtand and strprahilar lymph node, left, excision:
Benign edrenat gland and periedrenel adipose tissue
No tymph nodes identified

4‘ SP: Lymph nodes, left hiizrr. dissection:
Lymph Nodes:
Not invotved
Number of nodes examiraedzd

Some of the irarrnorronrstociremvstry and lSH tests were devetcned and their performance chararzteestics were determined by the Department of Pothotogy. may have
not been clearer; or approved by the US Food and Drug Admmisrrarron The FDA has determined that such steerance or approvat is not necessary These tests are
cold not be regarded as investigalrenai or {or research. this latroratnry is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
5 stratiﬁed to perform high Complexity ctrnirat laboratory testing,

lATfEST THAl lHté ABOVE DMGHGSIS IS BASH) UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION 01'- THE SHOES (l‘tNDr'OR OTHER MATERtI‘tL), AND THAY EEMVE
REVIEWED AND A9FRCNEU '1 Hi8 REPORT

 

 

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment
CA~1X.
C010
i\E‘i:AE3
EMA
CK?

601 :7
RACEMASE
lMM H86
iMM RECUT
PAS

NEG CON”?
HtvtB~45
A103-l
HiviBJlf)
A1034

IMM RECUT
NEG CONT
itviM RECUT
NEG CONT

Gross Q_escrigtion:

  

'l) The specimen is re: , , , . . . - ‘ ney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels and perinephric
let weighing 812 g in total measuring 22 x 13 x 8 cm overall. The kidney measures 12.? x 9 x 4 cm. The attached ureter
measures 7 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 2 cm in length and ‘1 cm in diameter, the
meat vessels and meter margins are grossly unron'rarttable. An adrenal gland is not identiﬁed The kidney ts rotted black and

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

  

bivalved to reveal a hemorrhagic golden yetlow and red ttrmor at mid portion measuring 6.5 x 6 x 4.5 cm. Sections through the
remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown parenchyma, with a welfrdeﬁned conicornedullsry junction, There is a second nodule
in the lower pole measuring 1 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm showing a tan gray cut surface. The cortex measures i cm and the caiycss appear
normat. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric let. The specimen is photographed. Representative sections are
suonntted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections: UM .. uroteral margin, VM- vascular margin. T- tumor, TSF -~ lurnorwilh sinus lat

RP .. renat pelvis representative sections K ~~ re r ' tittativc sections kidney, T2- second cortical nodule

  

2). ‘l he specimen is receive in ermelin, tobelod "prosodic and paraeortic tymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm
lymph nodes ranging from t) 5 to 3.8 crn in greatest dimension All identified lymph nodes are submitted
Summary of sections: LN -- lymph nodes, BLN m bisected lymph nodes, OLN -— quadrisected lymph node

3) The specimen is received tresh labeled as "Lott adrenal gland soprahilsr lymph node" and consists o! a fragmented piece of
adipose tissue measuring 9 x 7.5 x 1.5 cm, containing an adrenal gland measuring 6 x 3.5 x 1 cm The cut section of adrenal
reveals a golden yellow cortex and dark brown medulla, which is grossly unremarkable. The specimen is representatively
submitted as follows. Summary of Sections: A- edzcnat, Flint

4). The specimen is reserve! to eralin, labeled "hilar lymph node. left" and consists of leer pink ten lion lymph nodes ranging

from 0.5 to 1 cm in greatest dimension. Ali identified lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN ~- lymph nodes. BLN ~ bisected tyrnph node

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: SP: Kidney, left, total nephrectonty

‘ Btock Sept. Site P

2- ’ k " 2
to 2
t 7
t2 3
tsf 5
urn 1
we 1

”M.

4&0103541“)

Port 2: SP: Lymph nodes, pro-aortic and parasortic, dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 BLN r1

7 LN 13
4 QLN 4

Part 3: SP: Adrenal gland and supraliilsr tyrnpti node, left. excision

Block Sect. Site P03
2 od 2
3 l 3

Part 4: SP: Lymph nodes, Eeft hilar, dissection

Btock Sect. Site P03
1 BLN 2
2 LN 3
I.
s e

 

Page 3 at 3 END OF REPORT

 

 

 

