Confidential

 

UUID: BC‘BDSCA- 235C- 4217- BF72- FBBBBBSRCSeSZB
TCGA- 4E- A92E- 91A- PR

llllllllHlllllllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllcllad

Site ID Subject Number:
Please complete ALL information with black ball point pen. Ensure Information is legible.
Retain MI and email/fax copy to

 

Sample Collection Date: _ _ __ __ Procured by: _
D D-M M'M-v v v v

 

 

Time of Tumor Sample Excision Time Zone-
(24 hour clock): H H : M M ‘

TUMOR-FROZEN a FRESH SAMPLES

FROZEN SAMPLES BATCH SHIPPED (an Ice); FRESH TUMOR SAMPLE, IF COLLECTED, SHIPPED ON DAY OF COLLECTION

 

 

 

Collect resected tumor In accordance with standard procedures Weigh the sample and section off "100mg.
W

Place this sample' In the cryovlal labeled Frozen Tumor sample and record the weight. Place the cryovlal In a cane and
then into the vapor phase dewar. Record the time placed in dewar.

 

Weight ofTissue: 2‘2 0 mg Time placed In dewar:

(tissue weight must be a 100mg) (24 hour clock) II H : M M

Fre r 0 Cl N/A

Locate the ”Fresh Tumor" labei' In the kit and affix to the 15ml tube (sent separately). Plans at“! remaining

tumor tissue into the 15ml conical tube containing

Weight of Tissue: I ‘40 mg Time placed in

 

 

 

 

. Lot Number of
(no min. weight specified) (24 hour clock) II II : M M _
WHOLE aLooosAMPLE (mad) - urciIEo sIIIPPEo'rIIOZErI-m ice)
_. .‘. _ ___. ____
Sample Collection Date: ._ — — .E— — —. __. Prooured by: _ _
D 0 - M M - V Y V V

Time of Blood Sample Collection .

. __ Time Zone.
(24 hour clock): I II II : M' M “

 

 

1-10ml EDTA tube. Fill tube completely and mix by gentle inversion at least 8-10 times. Freeze sample on dry ice or
place in vapor phase dewar.

Time placed In dry ice/dewar:
(24 hour clock) H II : M M

 

BASIC PATHOLOGICAI. iNFORMATlON

Clinical Diagnosis: (:01: : ah .! l‘ l ED! £( Source ofSpecimen: E: i : a 3’ M 3‘ E
(Ex. Lung Cancer) (Ex. Right Lung) ‘

 

 

 

 

Confidential
Valid from Page 1 of 2

M,M«m‘u;4 rims
. 3530 3

054]
9ft) algae/i4

 

 

_%ﬂwm;,.

 

 

 

 

 

Site ID:

Confidential

Tissue/Blood Requisition Form

-_- .....................

Aﬁlx Label Here
Or Write in Sample ID

n_-_-____-__-_t

l
l
I
I
I
l
l
l
i
I
I
i
I
L

Suble'ct Number:

 

 

 

 

 

From the diagnostic FFPE block cut 3 slides with one section "' 4-5pm on each slide. Label the frosted tip of the slide
In pencil with the sample ID. (located on the label at the top of this form). Record the ID number of the diagnostic
histology cassette and the number of slides. H&E stain the slides and store in a slide mailer.’

. Diagnostic Histology Cassette ID

 

 

 

 

 

Numberof Slides Cut 5 ‘

 

   

Specimen gallection Vessel . Trahsfer Tube Shipping Status

Frozen Tumor’ None Cryovial Same Day— Dry Ice
Frozen Blood“ 1-10ml EDTA _ ' None Same Day - Dry Ice,
Fresh Tumor None ,L5ml- ' Same Day — Refrigerated
DIagnostlcSlIdes“. ' Histo‘logy‘Cassette ,Superlfrost Slides S-Slide Mailer— Batch

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

Conﬁdential
Valid from

 

Page 2,of‘2‘

 

Surg Path Final Report

II Final Report '1

Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Tille:
Verified By:
Encounter info:

 

* Final Report "

Final Diagnosis (Verified) ‘
Uterus and cervix with bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, resection:
Well-differentiated adenocarcinoma (endometrioid type, FIGO grade 1), conﬁned to
endometrium.
There is no evidence of tumor invasion into underlying myometrium in the examined
sections and no evidence of lymphovascular invasion.
Focal adenomyosis.
Leiomyomas.
Benign cervical tissue with no evidence of neoplasm.
Benign parauterine tissue.
Benign fallopian tubes and ovaries.

Left external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Benign adipose tissue.
No lymphoid tissue is present for evaluation.

Left internal iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.
No lymphoid tissue is present for evaluation.

Left aortic lymph nodes. excision:

One (1) benign lymph node with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.
Right external iliac lymph nodes, excision:

One (1) benign lymph node with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.

Right internal iliac lymph nodes. excision:

Page 1 of 3
(Continued)

 

 

s

Surg Path Final Report

* Final Report *

Benign fibroadipose tissue.
Lymphoid tissue is not present for evaluation.

Right obturator lymph'nodes, excision:
Two (2) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.

Right common iliac lymph nodes. excision:
Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.
Lymphoid tissue is not present for evaluation.

 

Right aortic lymph nodes. excision:
Two (2) benign lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic neoplasm.

Comment: AJCC pathologic stage: T1a,N0.

 

   

Gross Description (Verified)

"A. Uterus. cervix. bilateral tubes. and ovaries." The specimen consists of a 53 gram. 7.2 x 3.8 x 3.5 cm previously bivalved uterus vn‘th
attached cervix. The across is perk-tan with rare adhesions. The ectocervix is pink-tan to red-tan. smooth and glistening, and averages 3.1 x
2.6 cm. The as is patent. The cervical neck is inked as iollows: anterior cervical neck orange and posterior cervical neck black. Previous
opening reveals a pink-ten. soit. friable mass involving the superior endometriurn. This has an overall measurement of 1.7 cm superior to
interior. 1.5 cm left to right and 0. 9 cm anterior to posterior This mass grossly appears to predominantly Involve the anterior endometrium.
This mass grossly appears to be oontlned to the inner one-halt aspect of the myometrium and cornea to within 0 8 cm of the anterior serosa.
The remaining endometr'lum is pale tan and averages less than a millimeter in ‘ ' The. 1.4 cm in *'

There are less than live (5) intramural nodules measuring up to 0. 7 c. On sectioning, these have graymhite whorled cut surfaces Attached
to the uterus is the left fallopian tube with timbriae, which measures 4 5 x 0 4 cm. Adherent to the tube Is a 0 3 cm thin- walled. yelow-tan.
serous ﬂuid-tilled cyst. There is also an attached leti every. which measures 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. On sectioning. there is a 0.5 cm white~tan.
corpus elbicans. The remain'ng cut surface is pinHan and solid. Attached to the uterus is the right fallopian tube with limbriae. which
measures 5.8 x 0.4 cm, Adherent to the ﬁmbriae is a 0.4 cm thin-walled clear ﬂuid-ﬁlled paratubal cyst. There is also an attached right ovary.

Page 2 of 3
(Continued)

Surg Path Final Report

* Final Report: *

 

which measures 2.7 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. On sectioning. there is a 0.6 cm white-tan corpus albicans. The remaining cut surface is pink-tan and
solid. "A1.“ left parauterine vessels; “A23 right parauterine vessels; 'A3.‘ anterior cerle and conical canal: "AA-A6." anterior
endomyometrium; 'A7.“ posterior cervix and cervical neck; "Ab-A10." posterior endometrium: "A11." intramural nodules: ”A12." left tube and
ovary; "A13,' right tube and ovary. representative.

'3. Left enema! iac." The specimen consists of a 3.7 cm yellow-tan. fatty fragment On examination, definite lymphoid tissue is not
identified. All tissue is submitted into cassettes ‘BlvBZf

"C. Left internal iliac.“ The specimen consists of a 2.3 cm yelow-tan. fatty fragment. On examination. deﬁnite lymphoid tissue is not identiﬁed.
All tissue is submitted into cassette “C."

"D. Len aortic.“ The specimen consists of a 3.2 cm yellow-tan. fatty fragment. On examination. a 1.1 cm possible on is identimd. All lymphoid
tissue is submitted into cassette 'D.‘ representative.

"E. Right external" The specimen consists of two (2) yellow-tan. fatty fragments measuring 3.1 and 3.3 cm. On examination. a 2.0 cm
possible lymph node is identiﬁed. A representative section is submitted into cassette 'E.‘

“F, Right internal." The specimen consists of a 1.4 cm yellow-tan. fatty fragment. On examination. definite lymphoid tissue is not identiﬁed. All
tissue is subde into cassette "F.’

"G. Right obturator.“ The specimen consists of two (2) yellow-tan. fatty fragments measuring 2.2 and 5.6 cm. On examination. two (2)
possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed. These measure 1.6 and 4.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted Into cassette "G."

'H. Right common iliac.“ The specimen consists ofa 2.1 cm yellow—tan, fatty fragment. On examination. definite lymphoid tissue is not
identified. All tissue is submitted into cassette "H"

”l. Right aortic.‘ The specimen consists of a 2.0 cm yellow-tan. fatty fragment. On examination two 2 ibis lymph nodes are identiﬁed.
These measure 1.0 and 1.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted into cassette '1."

 

Clinical Information (Verified)
Uterine under.

 

Page 3 of 3
(End of Report)

Non-Gyn Final Report

* Final Report *

Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Veriﬁed By:
Encounter info:

 

* Final Report *
Comment (Verified)

 

Diagnosis (Verified)
Negative for neoplastic cells.

Specimen Description (Veriﬁed)

Pelvic Washing

40 ads of bloody ﬂuid/material received in a cup.
Processed by ‘

Clinical information (Verified)
uterine cancer

 

Printed by Page 1 of1
Printed on: (End of Report)

 
       

Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy

  
 
  

Prior Malignancy Hlstorv
Dual/Synchronous Primary N-

 

 

Criferh .
Diagnosis Discrepancy

 

,2,

impure—

 

i
l
i
i
l

 

