  

CGA-Gﬁ—2778

Clinical diagnosis and question

Space-occupying lesion, left lower Eobe, $10 and suspected mediastinai lymph node metastases.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1 cm already incised node, section surfaces grayish—brown.

2.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 1.5 cm node with surrounding tissue, section surfaces grayish-Vitreous, patchy
blackish pigmentation.

3.) Leﬁ lower lobe: inﬂated, ﬁxed lower lobe measuring 10 x 7.5 cm at the base and up to 14 cm high, central
bronchus resection plane located at the bifurcation into B6 and bronchi of the lower group. Lesioned bronchus
in the region of the bifurcation of the segments of the lower group. At the hilus are four lesioned nodes between
0.5 cm and 2.4 cm. A staple suture line runs 9 cm from the hilus in a ventrocaudal direction. Visceral pleura
appears turbid and cloudy, focai whitish thickening, in parts with delicate reticulate or patchy blackish
pigmentation, bloody coating in the medial region and with deep retractions at the dorsal and basal margin
laterally and relatively marked deformation of the lower lobe. Parietal pleura in the dorsomedial region over
810 shows an area of adhesion measuring 4 x 2 cm. Below this is a partly ﬁrm grayish-vitreous, ﬁne patchy
blackish pigmented, otherwise soft pale yellowish tumor, max. 6.5 cm in size, with arcuate contours, the main
mass being located in 810, extending to adjacent sections of S 6 and 9,. Intermediate and peripheral branches of
B 9 and 10 leading to the tumor. Central tumor extension within 1.3 cm of the bronchus resection plane. Central
parabronchial blackish node 0.8 cm in size at the tumor margin. The parenchyma surrounding the tumor shows
slight focal compaction, with ﬁne yellow patches. The remaining parenchyma shows small patches of slightly
blackish pigmentation.

4.) Pieura: a fatty tissue measuring 8.5 x 2 em, up to 0.3 cm thick, with predominantly shiny surfaces. One side
a few plaques or lumps up to 0.1 cm in size.

5.) Lobar LN (station 12) left upper lobe: 2.3 cm lesioned node.

6.) Interlobar LN (station 11): 1.}. cm node.

7.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9): 1.? cm node with some surrounding tissue. Including 0.? cm fatty tissue.
8.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8): 0.5 cm node with abundant surrounding tissue.

9.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): 1 cm node.

10.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5): 1.7 cm lesioned node and a 1 cm fiat fatty tissue
specimen.

11.) Subcarinal LN (station 7): 1.1 cm node and a 0.8 cm node with abundant surrounding tissue.

12.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 1.7 cm node.

Examined:

1.) + 2.) Rapid section remains and residual nodes

3.) 1 section of tumor with visceral pleura, 1 section of tumor with surrounding yeilowish parenchyma, 2
sections of tumor central with nodes and bronchus, bronchial and vascular resection margins (tangential) and
also smaller hilar nodes, largest hilar node, 2 sections of tumor with parietal pleura,

4.) 6 sections,

5.) ~ 12.) All material (in 5.), 7.) + 10.) lamellated in each case),

18 blocks, partly Elastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase—PAS.

Microscopy

Re i.) Immediate intracperative evaluation _): lymph nodes in the samples examined show no
evidence of carcinoma. After paraffin embedding:

Lymph nodes with intact underlying structure and inconspicuous cell content with formation of activated
follicles.

Re 2.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): lymph node involvement by a large—cell solid
carcinoma, possibly squamous cell differentiation. Alter parafﬁn embedding:

Lymph nodes with extensive inﬁltration by atypical epithella arranged in partly branched solid structures.
Predominantly moderately wide, partly elongated, moderately eosinophilic cytoplasm. Nuclei moderately aniso-
morphic and with enlarged chromatin. Predominantly small nucleoli. Centrally small necroses in parts with
dense granulocytic inﬁltrates. Desmoplastic stroma around the atypical epithelia. Capsule of the lymph node
partly enlarged by ﬁbrosis.

Re 3.) Tumor made up of the atypical epithelia largely described in 2.). Focally enlarged cytoplasm and vaguely
concentric position as well as focally identiﬁable intercellular bridges. Nuclei in part markedly anisomorphic.
Extension of atypical epithelia initially as far as the visceral pleura in the region of the pleural adhesion zone. A
hilar lymph node partly inﬁltrated by the atypical epithelia.

Parietal pleura, resection margin of bronchus and vessels and also small parabronchial nodes tumor-free. At the
tumor margin lung tissue with macrophages that have transformed into foam cells, densely packed in some
cases, with a smaller number of lymphocytes and granulocytes and focally also buds of mesenchyma partly
incorporated in the wall and slightly collagenized. Alveolar septa partly enlarged and slightly to moderately
inﬁltrated predominantly with lymphomono cytes.

Re 4.) Superﬁcially focally preserved ﬂat to cubic mesothelia. Underlying focal to moderately wide,
vascularized fibrous tissue. Adjacent broad fatty tissue.

Re 5) and 12) Lymph nodes with focal inﬁltration by the atypical epithelia described in 2.) and 3).

Re 6.) - 11.) Lymph nodes as described for 1.).

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Peripheral to intermediate bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated, large—cell, nonkeratinizing
squamous cell carcinoma of the left lower lobe of the lung with main location in S 1 0.

TNM classiﬁcation according to this picture pT2 pN3 pMX R0, stage 1113.

C 34.3 M 807013.

Secondary diagnosisldiagnoses:

Lymph nodes with uncharacteristic reactive lesions (samples 1.) and 6.) — 11.)). Active chronic organizing
retention pneumonia at the tumor margin. Pleural adhesion (sample 3.)). Resection material shows focal parietal
pleura slightly enlarged with fibrosis (sample 4.)).

Remarkladdendum:

None.

 

