Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Mansion t
Service: Coiiected:
VM #: Received:
Location: Reported:
Facility.

‘ _ - _
mum—£5: 042;... m: ““1"-izzifzzn’atﬁiﬂ":“We;dama
wmmmmum

ﬁgaggggﬁﬁﬁﬁggmm HMMWMMMWMMWWM
.m - IMWMWWWMMWWMMMHIMMHMW
MWMMMWMWMMMWHIMMWMN

 

Patient Nana:
"RN.

DOB:
Gender:
HCN:
Ordering ND,
Copy To:

 

 

5. Uterus: Uterus. cervix. bilateral tubes and ovaries
6. Soft Tissue Right pelvic side wall

m
m
M

 

Diagnosis
1. Omentum. partial omenteciomy.
- Mature adipose tissue, Negative for malignancy.

2. Right common iliac lymph nodes:
- Fibroadipose tissue only.
- No lymphoid tissue present.

3. Right pelvic lymph nodes:
- No tumor seen In four lymph nodes examined.(0l4)

4. Left pelvic lymph nodes:

- No tumor seen in nine lymph nodes examined.(0l9) '

5. Uterus. cervix. bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, Robotic assisted total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy:

Endometrlum:

— SEROUS CARCINOMA.

Myom‘eirium:

- Invaded by adenooarcinoma, extending to the outer half of myometrlum.

- Leiomyomata and Adenomyosis.

Cervix:
- Negative for malignancy.

Right & Ieﬂ ovaries:
- Negative for malignancy.

Right & Ieit fallopian tubes:
- Negative for malignancy.

' Pageiof4
Ico'a’3

(zit/WWW Wi NU 5441/3
53h: Wme 63-44

 

Emory iumor Site Discrepancy

”/13," mm

Prior

Case is
Raviewer

 

,-

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

6. Salt tissue: right pelvic sidewall:

- Mature adipose tissue, Negative for malignancy.

5 no tic Data
Specimen:

‘,

,..

.5-
Procedure:

Lymph Node Sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:

Histologic Type: ‘
Histologic Grade:
Myometrial invasion:

involvement of Cervix:

Uterine corpus

Cervix

Right ovary

Left ovary “ ‘

Right fallopian tug?

Leit fallopian tube' k

Omentum

Simple hysterectomy

Bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy

Other (specify): robotic-assisted .
Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes

Intact hysterectomy specimen

Other both sides

Greatest dimension: 2.9 cm

Serous adenocarclnoma

Not applicable

Present

Myometriai thickness: 1.5 mm

50% or greater myometrlai invasion

Not involved

Extent oi involvement of Other Organs:

Lymph—Vascular Invasion:
TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

Distant Metastasis (pM):

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Right ovary not Involved
Left ovary not Involved
Right fallopian tube not involved
Left fallopian tube not involved
Omentum not involved
Pelvic wall not Involved
Not identiﬁed
Not applicable

pT1b 03): Tumor Invades more than or one-half of the myornetrlum
pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

Pelvic lymph nodes examined: 13
Pelvic lymph nodes Involved: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 0
Not appliwble

None identiﬁed

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

 

PageZoN

” Surgical Pathology consultation Report —

1. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Omentum“. The specan consists of 3 un-oriented
pieces of lobulated adipose tissue that have an aggregate fresh weight of 48.0 g and measure from 2.9 cm to 8.5 x 7.5 x
1.7 cm. Serial cuts through, and palpation of the specimen show no discrete lesions, ﬁrm areas or probable lymph nodes.
1A-1 E representative sections

2. The speclnnn container is labeled with the patients name and as "Right common iliac lymph nodes“. The specimen
consists of 2 pieces of ﬁbroadipose tissue that measure, In aggregate, 2.0 x 1.7 x 0.3 cm. No gross lymph nodes are
identiﬁed within the specimen.

2A submitted in toto

3. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Right pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists
of multiple pieces of ﬁbroadlpose tissue that measure. In aggregate, 4.0 x 3.5 x 1 .0 cm. Within the tissue pieces are
multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.2 to 2.2 cm. Representative sections, lymph nodes submitted in tote:

3A-3‘B multiple lymph nodes. per block

3C—3D 1 lymph node bisected, per block

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Left pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of
multiple piece of ﬁbroadlpose tissue that measure, In aggregate, 6.5 x 4.0 x 1.5 cm. Within the tissue pieces are multiple
lymph nodes that range from 0.2 to 2.2 cm. Representative sections, lymph nodes submitted in toto:

4A—4C multiple lymph nodes. per block

4D— 4E 1 lymph node bisected. per block

5. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as “Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries". The
specimen consists of a total hysterectomy specimen with attached bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. The specimen has a
fresh weight of 71.9 g. The uterus and cervix measures 7.5 cm Si x 5.0 cm ML x 2.9 cm AP. The cervix has a maximum
diameter of 2.5 cm. The external as measures 0.7 cm and is oval. The right fallopian tube measures 6.0 x 0.5 cm. The
right ovary measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. The left fallopian tube measures 5.5 x 0.5 cm. The left ovary measures 2.0 by
1.8 x 0.7 cm. .

The uterine serosa demonstrates a roughened appearance with fragments of adipose tissue on the fundal aspect There
is a Subsercsal nodule on the posterior aspect measuring 0.9 cm in diameter. This has a white whorled pattern on cut
section. The exocervix is pink-tan and glistening with petechial areas of congestion. The endocervical canal measures
3.5 cm In length. The endometrial cavity measures 3.2 cm Si x 3.0 cm from comua to comua, The endometrium
demonstrates a papillary tan tumor predominantly inferior aspect that measures 2.4 cm SI by 2.9 cm from comua to
comua. On the anterior aspect the tumor has a maximum depth of 1.0 cm. It extends into the inner half of the
myometrium and comes to within 1.0 cm of the anterior serosa. On the posterior aspect the tumor has a maximum depth
of 0.7 cm. it inﬁltrates the myometrium and comes to within 0.9 cm of the posterior serosa. The myometrium
demonstrates 2 white whoried nodules In the posterior aspect measuring 0.9 and 1 cm in diameter. Both fallopian tubes
show ﬁmbria The outer surface of the ovaries is smooth. The cut surface of each ovary demonstrates an unremarkable
parenchyma. Multiple pieces of tissue are stored frozen. Representative sections. ﬁmbria and remainder of fallopian
tubes and ovaries in toto:

5A-53 anterior cervix to anterior uterine cervical junction. bisected

50-50 full thickness sections anterior endomyometrium with tumor

5E-5F posterior cervix to posterior uterine cervical junction, bisected

5G posterior subserosal nodule

5H posterior myometrid nodule

5l-5J full thickness sections posterior endomyometr'lum with tumor

5K rightﬂmbria. longitudinally sectioned

5L—5M right fallopian tube, serially sectioned from fimbrial to comual end

5N—5P right ovary

50 left ﬁmbria. longitudinally sectioned

5R-5S left fallopian tube. serially sectioned from ﬁmbrial to comual end

5T—5U left ovary

6. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as ”Of pelvic side wall“. The specimen consists of one
oriented lobuiated piece of adipose tissue measuring 12.5 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm. Serial cuts through and palpation of the tissue
demonstrate no discrete lesions or probable lymph nodes.

6A-6E representative sections

W Psi-3w

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

 

P3904014

