L «0 3
Ulul{ﬁlﬁiﬁiﬁliﬁﬁﬁiﬁwﬁ- Homersmezd dMiaLf/MP mﬂfwﬁ, W UM (9500/3
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIaIIIIIeCl
uﬂmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmml saz.buu{ NW‘ 6507 /A” ”QM

III
"MWWWWWNWMWWMWM

SPECIMEN

A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast tissue

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

A) Lymph node, left axillary sentinel node, excision — One lymph
node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "left
axillary sentinel node" are irregularly-shaped fragments
of
fibroadipose tissue that measure 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm. in dimension.
Within the tissue a lymph node is identified that measures 1.6 cm.
in maximum dimension. The lymph node is bisected and frozen as AFSl
and AFSZ.
8. Received fresh in a container labeled "left breast
tissue" is an 8 x 7 x 5 cm. portion of soft tan-yellow
breast tissue partially covered with a 4.5 x 2 cm. tan—pink

wrinkled

skin ellipse. There are orienting sutures present. The specimen
is

inked as follows based upon the orienting sutures: superior —

orange; anterior — blue; posterior — black; inferior — green. The
specimen is sectioned from medial to lateral. On cut surface,

there

is a 2.8 x 2.8 x 2.5 cm. tan white-pink indurated mass, which is
1.1

cm. from the nearest margin, which is the inferior posterior
margin.

The specimen away the mass consists of yellow adipose tissue with
scant interspersed tan tissue. RS—lO.

BLOCK SUMMARY: B1 — medial margin; BZ - lateral margin; 83,84 —
tumor to nearest margin (inferior/posterior); 35,6 — tumor to
posterior/deep margin; 7 — superior margin; 8 - skin to tumor; 9,10
— specimen away from mass lesion.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A. Serial H&E stained sections and immunostains with
antibodies to keratin (AEl—AE3) are examined, and the
sentinel lymph node is negative for malignancy.

B. The following template summarizes the findings in this
part:

Invasive Carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 3
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 3

Greatest dimension (pT): 2.8 cm. (pT2)

Specimen margins: Negative

Vessel invasion: Not definitively identified

Calcification: There is necrosis within invasive carcinoma which
has focal calcification.

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Present focally
Histologic pattern: Solid
Nuclear grade: 3
Central necrosis: Absent
Extensive intraductal component: Absent
Specimen margins: Negative

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Description of non-tumorous breast: Changes compatible with

reaction
to prior biopsy. Fibrocystic changes.

Prognostic markers: Previously performed (see

4x2,l4,15,20X2

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified

as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro

diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.)

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node, left axially sentinel, excision —

(g Negative for malignancy.

B. Breast, left, biopsy -
Invasive ductal carcinoma, margins negative for malignancy.

(Electronic Signature)

--— End Of Report —--

,3 _____E_ﬂ .___ .
I, (fit-Jig .
,
ﬂaws“ Disai: an 4
Primary Tumor Site marepancv _

HIPM Disc-192nm;
Priw Mll‘ nanny History ‘

 
 

Dual/Synchronous Fri .I N L‘d
ElsEICinle):

 
  
  
      
 
  

 

