UUID: 3542521A-EA16-4CD1-A61A-1FBBAE928FCe9
TCGA- 55-A4BY-91A- PR

IllIllllllllllllllllllIllIIllIllIIIIIIlllIIIIlIIllIIIIIIIIlIIlllIlIce
I III|I|||I|IIII||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I III
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

 

COPY “I“

 

- L003
OCVZIWQCDU‘C‘inorﬂOt ,NO 5
PreOp Diagnosis <5 \40I’3

Left lung mass

Post—Op Diagnosis 3“ k - \W \ \wc
’ ower
I

Same as above

Clinical History , - C83
Nothing indicated °\ \\ \1 ‘I 3
Gross Description: Q»

Five parts

Container labeled '~ 1 ~ level 9 lymph node left lung"
has a 1.8 x 1,0 x 0.5 cm ﬂeshy gray-tan to pink nodule Surrounded

by a small amount of yellow adipose tissue. The specimen is bisected
and entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled — 2 « level 10 lymph node left

lung" has two nodular portions of rubbery gray-tan ﬂeshy tissue
measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and 2.0 x1.0 x 0.5 cm. These are
received along with 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm of similar ﬂeshy tissue
fragments with associated yellow adipose tissue The smaller nodule
is bisected and submitted labeled A- The larger nodule IS bisected
and submitted labeled B. Remaining tissue fragments are submitted
labeled C

Container labeled _3 - left lower lobe" has a 231

gram previously partially inked, partially sectioned portion of
recognizable pulmonary parenchyma grossly consistent with left lower
lobe of lung. The specimen as received on reconstruction' is 15.6 x

9 6 x 5 9 cm and has as the margin of resection the stapled
bifurcation of the tertiary bronchi. as well as several additional
vascular and parenchymal staple lines. Adjacent to the bronchus' is a
t 5 x 1.0 x 0. 7 cm lobulated ﬂeshy gray-black nodule The pleura is
slightly wrinkled gray- -tan to pink. On the upper anterolateral

aspect at a point approximately 4.0 cm from the upper portion of the
specimen there is an area of indurated umbilication over an area of
6.5 cm extending onto the lateral aspect. The anterior extending to
the lateral aspect of this indurated pleura is overlaid by gray-tan
ﬁbrinous material. The specimen has been previously partially
sectioned within this area to reveal a well deﬁned 55 x 5.5 x 5.4
cm lobulated intraparenchymal gritty gray-tan ﬁbrotic lesion. This
extends grossly focally to within 0.2 cm of the pleura. On
sectioning, this has a necrotic gray-tan focally
anthracotlc-streaked ﬁbrotic cut surface and grossly appears at its

‘ ' ' n hial
connection is grossly identiﬁed. On the medial aspect of the
specimen the pleura is taut over the lesion. in the area of the
pleural staple line margins the lesion grossly appears to focally
extend to within 0.2 cm of these staple lines. The lesion grossly
abuts and focally compresses several large vascular structures but
does not grossly appear to extend into them. The specimen is
received after tissue harvest for genomic study. Within the specimen
container are two tissue cassettes labeled ‘ The
remaining parenchyma is spongy, partially collapsed, gray-pink to
red with moderate anthracotic streaking and areas of apparent gross
emphysematous change. Representative sections are submitted labeled
as follows: A - shaved bronchial margin; B ~ peribronchial nodule,
sectioned; C - lesion with bronchial connection: D - lesion to
ﬁbrlnous material on pleura; E-i—l - lesion and surrounding tissue; l
— random uninvolved parenchyma.

Container labeled ‘Htl - level 6 lymph node left lung"
has a 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.‘ cm nodular rtion of partially fragmented
gray-brown ﬂeshy tissue with a small amount of associated yellow
adipose tissue. This is received along with a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm
portion of yellow adipose tissue with a few adherent fragments of
gray«blacl< ﬂeshy tissue up to 0.3 cm. The nodule is bisected and
the specimen entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Container labeled '~ 5 - level 5 lymph node left lung"
has a ‘i .6 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm nodular portion of gray~pink ﬂeshy tissue
which is bisected and entirely submitted in a single cassette.

Microscopic Description:
Reviewed are slides labeled —An elastic stain is performed
(with working control) and supports the following diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis

Lymph node, level 9. left lung, biopsy:

One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (011).
Lymph nodes. level 10, left lung, biopsy:

Three lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (on).

Lung. left lower lobe. lobectomyz.
Tumor characteristics: '
Specimen integrity: intact.
Specimen laterality: Left lower lobe.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinorna.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated (grade ll).
Tumor site: Left lower lobe.
Tumor focality: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 5.5 x 5.5 x 5.4 cm.
\ﬁsceral pleural invasion: Tumor penetrates through elastic layer

 

 

into pleura but not to
pleural surface.

Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal iymphovascular SpaCé
invasion identified.

Tumor extension: Conﬁned to lung.

Treatment effect: Not identified/not known.

Surgical margin status:

Tumor distance from bronchial margin: 1.6 cm.

Tumor distance from parenchymal margin: 0.2 cm.

Tumor distance from pleural surface: 02 cm.

 

Total number of lymph nodes received (with lobectomy specimen
only): One.

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: Zero
(011); seven lymph

nodes received with all specimen parts (0!?)
Other.

Stage: pTZb N0
Lymph node. level 6. left lung. biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (Oil).
Lymph node, level 5. left lung, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (011). PAS 9
SPC-A

Comments
An elastic stain is performed (with working controls) and supports
the above diagnosis.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr”, who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been ﬁnalized at the —

<Sign Out Dr. Signature:

Mme Turner 5

\%W
h -

ronous W a 4‘

 

 

 

