UUID:83686883-C3FA-43DA-9C85-FOA631957F57
TCGA- L3 ~A4E7-61 -

A PR Redacted
iiiiliiiiiiiiiiilliilliliiliiliiliiilililliliiliiilillllliiliiiilil
iiiiliiiiiiiiliiliiiliiiiiliiiiiiiiliiliiliiiiiiiliilii
iii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliii iiiiliiiililiiiilililii iilil

Patient: Pathoiogy #: — _

Med. Record No. a Date of Procedure

Date of Birth: Sex: M Date Received:
Submitted by‘ ‘
Report arise to.

.___. Pathoiogy Report

-—__.... .._. a A-—

 

DIAGNOSIS: iw— o“ 3
CWUYM, 09:, “'7;
W70 3
SPECiMEN . .
Specimen type; . ‘Lobectomy 5N1 ' {W’fi . WW ‘05“ C i‘t- 5
Tumor site; Rightteweriobael f“)
q/f'lﬂ'

TUMOR
Hi‘stoiogic type: Squamousrceii carcinoma
Histologic grade: Pooriy differentiated (G3 of 4)
Tumor size: 3.1cm
Tumor focaiity; Unifecais.

Direct extension of tumor: No invasion of viscerai pieura or adjacent structures
Tum0r~associated ateiectasisiobstructive pneumonitis: Absent
Lymphovascuiar space invasion: Absent

Additional ﬁndings: None

Comment: An elastic stain supports iack of visceral pieurai invasion.

MARGINS
All margins negatiVe for carcinoma
Distance to nearest margin: 3cm
Nearest margin: Bronchiai margin

LYMPH NODES

Aii sampled iymph nodes are benign
Number of nodes. evaluated; 11

STAGING (AJCC)
Primary Tumor; pTZa
Lymph Nodes: pNO

 

 

V2: Nu
\/
_ w P 7.
-{7‘ QWQ

n
A“ (‘ — w. .. .-
ri a .‘v‘ote , \7
— _§ UNIFIED; I DISQUALIFIED

a:

it: Gatekevieﬂilﬂ-Jig‘zm T

 

 

  

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i T ‘l
CLiNiCAL INFORMATION:
Right‘lung nodue
SPECIMEMS) RECENED:
Pathotogy Report
Page i of 2

 

Rightiower'iobe- 'esearch Specimen

GROSS DESCRIPTION: g
Received fresh is a 150.6 gram lobe of lung measuring 18.5 x 15.0 x 4.5 cm in greatest dimensions. The pleural
surface is tan-red with moderate anthracotic stippling. Located approximately 3, cm from the bronchial margin is a
Bit x22 x13 cm granular tan-gray subpleural mass. The mass has a cavitated‘cemer containing purulent
material. The mass extends to. but does not penetrate through, the pleura. Subsequent sectioning of the lung
reveals a spongy pink parenchyma with no additional masses. There are-multiple 0.2 cm to 1.1 x 1 1 x 0.4 cm
perioronchial lymph nodes. Two sections are submitted for frozen spniinn’ evaluation: A1 — bronchial margin: A2 —
tumor. A portion of the tumor is obtained for the The frozen section remnantsare
submitted for permanent sections. Additional sections: A3 —— tumor With overlying pleura (inked black); A4—
additionai tumor; A5 -— representative non-tumorous lung; AS‘AQ ~ multiple individual peribronchial iymphnodes.
intact.

FROZEN SECTION DiAGNOSiS: Non-small 'ceil- lung caroipoma, negative bronchial margin,
notiﬁed of the frozen section diagnosis at
Slides were microscopically examined by the pathologist

Evaluation performed by

Pathology Report
Page 2 of 2

 

