 

   

UUID : 52192360-2ACE-401C-5642-BSDGF677362D

TCGA-36-1569-61A-PR Redacted
llllllllll

Ill ||ll|Illlllllllllllllllllllllllll |||||||||||||||l|||||
Illlllllllllllllllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllll saw. many cmmonumn
Ill llllllll llll lllllll ll lllll l llll | lllll ill Ill lllllll I H II III

case Number: Patients Name:
Collect Date: MRN:
Receive Date: '
Date Reported: DOB/Gender: F
Ordering Physician:

Final Diagnosis:

1. Omentum, excision: Omental tissue extensively invaded by high-grade
papillary serous carcinoma with numerous psammoma bodies, tumor is
present in lymphatic channels.

2. "Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries", total
abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen
showing:

A. High-grade papillary serous carcinoma extensively replacing the left
and right ovaries including surface involvement

8. Tumor envelopes the left fallopian tube.

C. The right fallopian tube is negative for tumor,

D. The endometrium is negative for tumor and shows predominantly weakly
proliferative endometrium with focal areas of simple cystic

hyperplasia.

E. Several leiomyomata.

F. Foci of adenomyosis.

G. Cul-de-sac is negative for tumor.

H, In the section labelled "anterior isthmus" tumor is present on the
serosal aspect of the uterus.

3. Sigmoid serosa, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue extensively invaded by
high—grade papillary serous carcinoma.

4. Sigmoid mesentery. excision: Fibrofatty tissue extensively invaded by
high-grade papillary serous carcinoma.

Clinical History as Provided by Submitting Physician:
Ca ovary

A Omentum

B. Uterus, cervix. ovaries and fallopian tubes

C. Sigmoid serosa

D. Sigmoid mesentery

Specimens Received:

A: omentum

B: uterus + cervix + ovaries + fallopian tubes

C: sigmoid serosa

D: sigmoid mesentery

Gross Description:

Specimen is received in four containers each labelled with the patient’s name.

Container "A" is labelled "omentum" and consists of an apron of greater omentum measuring 23.0 x 11.0 x 3.0 cm. The omentum is distorted by a ﬁrm
nodule measuring 15.0 x 8.0 x 2.0 cm. On cross—section the nodule demonstrates a tan-white structure with areas of necrosis. Representative sections
are submitted as "A1" through "A4".

Container "B" is labelled "uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries" and consists of the same structures with a total weight of 79 g. The cervix

 

 

 

   

is amputated in the operation room at the level of the upper third of the endocervlcal canal is submitted separately in the same container. The uterus
measu es 3.5 cm in length. 3.5 cm side-by-side and 2.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The oenrix measures 3.2 cm x 3.1 cm. The external surface of the
uterus is covered with tan-white glistening serosa. The right fallopian tube measures 6.2 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. 0n the external surface
of the fallopian tube there are numerous thin-walled cysts with homogenous content. The right ovary measures 3.9 x 2.0 cm x 2.1 cm. On the external
surface there is a papillary lesion measuring 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The left fallopian tube measures 7.0 cm in length and 0.5 cm in diameter.
The left ovary measures 2.0 cm x 1.5 x 1.3 cm. The external surface represents a papillary lesion. The mucosa of the cervix is tan-white. glistening and
unremarkable. In the broad ligament adjacent to the anterior surface of the uterus there are three tan-white ﬁrm nodules measuring up to 1.1 cm in
greatest dimension.

in the posterior myometrium there are two ﬁbrord nodules measuring 0.2 and 0.5 cm in diameter. At the fimbriated end of the right fallopian tube there
is a ﬁrm tan-white nodule measuring 1.1 cm in greatest dimension.

Crossesction of the right ovary reveals a cyst. The thickness of the cyst wall is 0.5 cm and there is ‘a solid area measuring 1.6 x 1.5 cm. At the
fimbriated end of the left fallopian tube there is a ﬁrm tan-white nodule measuring 1.3 in greatest dimension. ‘
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

"Bl " anterior cervix

"32" -posterior cervix

”83" -cul-de-sac

"B4" -anterior isthmus

"B5" -posterior isthmus

"BB-87" -anterior endometrium
"Ba-BS" -posterior endometrium
"810" —right fallopian tube

"311-312" -right every

"813" -left fallopian tube

"B14" ~Ieft ovary

"B15" anterior peritoneal reﬂexion

Container "C" is labelled "sigmoid serosa" and consists of a fragment of serosa with numerous firm fibrous-like nodules measuring 7.5 x 3.0 x
1.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted as "C1“ through "A3".

Container "D" is labelled "sigmoid mesentery" and conslsts of fragments of soft tissue measuring 2.4 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
in cassettes "D1" and "DZ".

