 
 
 

TWA—654787

Material examined:

Upper lobe left and others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchiai carcinoma left upper lobe 51 and 2

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1) Left upper lobe: inflated, fixed resected tissue measuring 26 x 17 x 8 cm with hazy, ciouded, moderately
thick pleura with reticulate patches in places and diffuse, dark gray marking in places. Circumscribed thickening
over the apex, adhesion residue medially and clip ligatures there. Bronch us displaced centraliy 5 mm proximally
of the bifurcation of the iingula bronchus. Grayish brown discolored tumor tissue projecting from the ostium of
82. Outflow region of 82 greatly raised up to 1.8 cm and filied with grayish white, solid tumor tissue, 2.6 cm at
the greatest extent, In the 81/2 division point region infiltration of the bronchiai walls, the central section of 81
severely twisted here, but without detectable incursion into the lumen. A lymph node by-the distal upper lobe
bronchus in parabronchial position and marginaily bordering the tumor, apparentiy not infiltrated by the
tumor, section surfaces with black pigment in places. in segment 2 a large yascuiar branch segment aliy
displaced by compact, brownish yellow to reddish material. Severely ectasic bronchial branch, distally of the
tumor in segment 2, as far as the periphery, stuffed with paie yellow invisible material. Pulmonary parenchyrna
centrally in Segment 2 and extending into segment 1 with brownish yeliow to pale gray brownish thickening,
peripherally in segment 2 isolated small, golden yellow, indistinctly delineated sub-pleural induration foci. in
the ventrai apical region further, relatively sharply defined, peripheral, whitish tumor node in the mantie zone,
7 mm in size. Further into segment 1 below the adhesion zone described, towards the apex, smali, pigmented
sub-pleural lymph nodes 4 mm in size. Ventrally in segment 1, extending into the border region of 53, sub-
pleural spongiform or honeycomb parenchymal structure with porous induration in pieces, isolated large cysts
or cystic systems in segment 1 with greatest extension up to just 2 cm. 83 and bronchiai bifurcations of the
lingula clear as far as the periphery, parenchyma with normal section surfaces in the lingula.

2) Pleura biopsy: 1.2 x 0.7 cm in size, flat area between 0.2 and 0.6 cm thick, surface projected forward at one
end by a whitish, rough node 0.5cm in size, section surface predominantly whitish, brownish in the center.

3) Lobar LN (item 12) left: blackish node 0.8 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.
4) inter-lobar LN (item 11) ieft: biackish node 0.5 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.

5) Hiiar LN (item 10) ieft: four blackish nodes between 0.2 and 1 cm in size. Nodes with some surrounding
tissue.

6) Puimonary iigament LN (item 9) left: blackish node 1 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.

7) Deep paratracheai LN (item 4) left: lesioned blackish node 0.9 cm in size with some surrounding tissue.

 

Examined

1) Central bronchiai resection line (rapid section residue) + vascular displacement borders, 2 sections of tumor
with color marking of peribronchial/hilar resection surface, further tumor section/bifurcation of 82, 2 sections
with extended bronchial sections distally of the tumor, 2 peripheral portions of segment 2 with yellowish
areas, small tumor nodes in segment 1, sub—pleural lymph node in segment 1, further section of $1 with
bullae, 51/3 with sub-pleural induration.

2) — 7) each total material (preparation halved in 2)), 17 blocks, partly_E|astica—v.Gieson, PAS, diastasis-PAS.

Microscopy

1) Intraoperative immediate evaluation _ bronchial mucosa and wail free of tumor at the resection
border, desquamation of carcinoma cells only in the lumen.

Description of the histological and cytological findings omitted for reasons of capacity.
EVALUATION

Central, partly endobronchial, obliterating growth of bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly differentiated,
large cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (WHO category 1.3.1) with displacement of 82 and
narrowing of Bl. Resection border of bronchus and vessels, hilar resection surface, visceral pleura and all
identified and removed lymph nodes of samples 1) and 2) — 7) including the lymph nodes from sample 1) local
subpleural area in 51 region tumor—free. Peripheral to the tumor in 52 consecutive bronchiectases and here
and in $1 focal chronically organizing retention pneumonia.

Also peripherai pulmonary hematoma in $1, focal, subpleural, bullous pulmonary emphysema and focal,
uncharacteristic subpleural area of scarring at the transition of 51 to $3. In sample 2) nodular, partially
calcified, hypocelluiar fibrous zone of the parietal pleura.

TNM classification pTl pNO R0, stage lA.

Morphology: 80703
Topography: 028500
Morphology: 8070/3
Topography: C341
Grading: 3

Stage: T1NOMXRO

 

