UUID:CDO72CSA-22CF-43CA- A903- 231C60754D59

 

 

 

 

TCGA-IA-AAaY-elA-PR Redacted
m m")minarm.)1).).m1mrr)w:nm.:m.w:.wm ...
IN "IlllllllllllllllllllINIIHIIINHllllllllllllIIIIIHHIIII
Results SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order‘
Paigziteﬁfﬁame _ §ex _ DOB
Resuhs

 

Specimen # :w

Submitting Physician:

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

l. Kidney, right, nephrectomy (A) - Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type,
with focal sarcomatoid differentiation, Fuhrman nuclear grade 4 (8.5 cm in
greatest dimension).

— Microscopic angiolymphatic invasion is identified.

— The tumor invades into the renal sinus.

— All surgical margins are negative.

~ See template.

2. Lymph node, retrocaval, excision (B) — Two of seven lymph nodes positive
for metastatic papillary renal cell carcinoma (2/7).

3. Adrenal gland, right, excision (C) - Unremarkable adrenal gland,
negative for carcinoma.

COMMENT

Renal Cell Carcinoma; Kidney nephrectomy template

Procedure: Radical nephrectomy (with adrenal gland)

Specimen Laterality: Right [CD/0’3
Tumor Site: r0144 cc” carcinoma) Papillanj
Upper pole
Middle .. ' ya (90/?
Tumor Size: 8.5 x 7.6 x 6.0 cm. :3i4</7F<féifkﬂx4) [Jils

(1034,? 8'34}.
Tumor Focality: Unifocal R1)

Macroscopic Extent of Tumor:(select all that apply)
Tumor extension into renal sinus

Histologic Type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma

Sarcomatoid Features: Pzésent
Specify percentage If sarcomatoid element: less than 5%

Tumor Necrosis: Present

Histologic Grade: (Fuhrman Nuclear Grade): 4
Microscopic Tumor Extension: (select all that apply)

  

 

“511': _
“ ' ' “‘ . J‘—',!. ‘7
w “W. J.

me}

Q

 

 

”we” Encounter maxﬂr‘w

Tumor extension into renal sinus
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
LymphrVascular Invasion: PreSent
Pathologic Findings in Nonneoplastic Kidney: (select all that apply)
Significant pathologic alterations

None identified
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
TNM Descriptors: (required only if applicable) (select all that apply)
Primary Tumor: (pT): pT3a: Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein or
its segmental (muscle containing) branches, or tumor invades perirenal
and/or renal sinus fat but not beyond Gerota' s fascia
Regional Lymph Nodes: (pN) le
le: Metastasis in regional lymph node(s)

Number examined: 7
Number positive: 2

at

Distant Metastasis: (pM) pMX
Not applicable
pMX:

(Electronic Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED

A: RIGHT KIDNEY

B: RETRO CAVAL LYMPH NODE _ » E
C: RIGHT ADRENAL GLAND V )

 

CLINICAL DATA
RIGHT RENAL MASS

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. The specimen consists of a right kidney surrounded by an envelope of
fibroadipose tissue meaSuring 15 x 9.8 x 6.2 cm and weighing 460 grams. The
kidney measures 11.5 x 9.5 x 6 cm. An 8.5 x 7.6 x 6 cm mass involves the
upper and mid portions of the kidney. On section, the tumor mass is roughly
spherical and golden yellow in color with foci of hemorrhage and softening.
The tumor essentially obliterates the renal sinus and does appear to
involve the renal sinus fat. The tumor does not definitely extend into the
perirenal fat and is not present at the soft tissue line of the specimen.
The tumor does invade into the pyelocalyceal system and renal sinus. The
tumor does appear to involve the renal capsule. The tumor is sharply
demarcated from the renal parenchyma, which appears essentially
unremarkable. Satellite nodules of tumor are not present in the renal
tissue. Dissection of the renal veins, particularly those draining the area
of neoplasm, do not show the intravascular presence of mass. The adrenal

 

n--- G .l'h

 

'''' TCH

 

wm Encounter Date: “——

gland is not present. A 4 cm segment of ureter is present and is
essentially unremarkable. Lymph nodes are not present. Sections are
submitted as follows: A1 ureteral margin; A2 vascular margin; A3-7 tumor
nearest renal capsule and surrounding soft tissue (nearest soft tissue
margin is in A7); AB—lO tumor in renal sinus.

8. Received in formalin labeled "retrocaval lymph nodes" are multiple
irregular segments of fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 4.5 x 1.5 x 1.0
cm. Evidence of cautery is identified. On palpation, three tan-pink firm
nodules are identified ranging in size from 1.1 to 2.3 cm in greatest
dimension. The nodules are totally submitted in formalin as follows: Bl one
nodule bisected, totally submitted, BZ one nodule bisected, totally
submitted, B3 one nodule bisected, totally submitted.

F

C. Received in formalin labeled "right adrenal gland" is an adrenal gland
measuring 8.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm and weighing 14.0 grams. Sutures are present
on one aspect of the specimen. Upon sectioning, a tan gelatinous nodule is
present measuring 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. No other lesions are
identified. A photograph is taken. Representative sections are submitted
in formalin as follows: C1-C2 nodule, C3-C4 additional random
representative sections.

__ .- ;
Patient ll: ”

DOB: (Age:
Date of Report:

Date of Procedure
Date of Receipt:
Submitted by:
Location:

Test performed by:

 

 

Lab and Collection
SURGlCAL PATHOLOGYlOrde __ ., - a . ». ,. . . 1

Result History

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY (Orde rResultH'sto Re 0 .

Result information i

Result Date a d T'me Status Provider Status
w Final result Reviewed

 

 

 

 

 

l .n Status:
This result is currently not released to l _
Display Full Result Report Display Order Regon

 

 

Dam: Q nP’X

