 

 

 

 

1.

D'0”23 ""' I A“
[EM/m" ”WWW bw’ NVS ”I’M/3
' fhﬂ 5,n dnbd ZMzaat'Afyuv mwﬁudfaaahaaj‘ C 579.ﬁ/ Cﬂ7ﬂ/
(1005': WW; 5509 A,

!
Wa‘iient;

Surgical Pathology: Fina!r , ,
UUID:12C64846-1C53-42E4-5307-54C7AD12F530

TCGA-BS-ABIH—MA-PR Redacted
WNW

IMMMMWWMMMWMMMMMMM
Immmmmwmmmmmmmmmmmmm

nmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmunmm

Surg Path II
I

 

CLINICAL HISTORY: ||
S/P adenocarcinoma. Invasive adeno carcinoma of breas .

GROSS EXAMINATION:

A. "Left breast biopsy (AF1)", in formalin. The specimen consists of an
irregular ovoid fragment of firm pink and yellow—tan tissue measuring 2 x 1.5
x 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. A portion of the specimen has been previously
submitted as frozen section AFl, and portion of tissue has been previously
submitted for ER/PR evaluation. The frozen section remnant is submitted in
Block Al and the remaining tissue is sectioned and submitted in Block A2.

B. "Left breast", fresh. The specimen is a 500 gram, 35.5 x 16 x 5.5 cm in
aggregate dimension less mastectomy specimen and attached axillary dissection.
The breast measures approximately 24 x 15.5 x 5.5 cm. The skin ellipse is 18.7
x 10.4 cm. The nipple is slightly atypical located on the skin surface away
from the axillary tail. The nipple is 1.4 cm in diameter and is slightly
depressed and surrounding areola is 4 cm in diameter. The tip of skin ellipse
closes to the axillary dissection (upper outer‘guadrant) exhibit a recent
sutured skin excision which is 4.5 cm long and is 2.7 cm from the superior
upper outer surgical margin. The skin also exhibit three small purple—brown
circumscribed lesion measuring from 0.1 cm to 0.2 cm in greatest dimension
scattered in several areas over the surface. The surgical margin are marked
with blue ink. The deep surface opposite the previously described suture
excision on the skin surface exhibits a focal area of suture material which
closes a 2.1 cm defect in the deep surface. This defect communicates with the
biopsy cavity. The margin in this area is inked carefully. Sectioning reveals
the biopsy cavity is approximately 2.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimension and
is hemorrhagic. Surrounding the biopsy cavity is a firm, poorly demarcated
tan, slightly gritty mass which is 6.2 x approximately 4 x 2.7 cm in greatest
dimension. This is well demarcated from the surrounding adipose tissue in the
outer quadrant, however, but extends toward the center of the specimen it
becomes less easily demarcated. The breast tissue of the remainder of the
specimen is firm, fibrotic with multiple cystic structures measuring up to 1
cm in greatest dimension and filled with gray—green fluid is a second
relatively circumscribed area of soft pink~tan tissue which bulges above the
cut surfaces and measures 3 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. This is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

located more centrally but in the lower outer quadrant. The larger firm mass - r4—
surrounding the biOpsy cavity to within approximately 0.5 cm of the surgical E§§§%§§é
margin but the fibroadipose tissue on the deep surface is easily clear over giggéégi
the lesions. Tumor extends to within 1.5 cm of the superior surgical margin. §}§§§ §§
. . 52.9%
sis
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1%
E5 3
Bl-BZ— representative sections of mass and adjacent biopsy cavity. .5 D
B3-BS- representative sections of tumor and adjacent deep surgical margin. §\-//
BS—B7— representative sections of superior surgical margin closest to tumor.. 43‘
BB» representative section of nipple. D
89— representative section of skin and subcutaneous tissue at surgical ‘Qﬁg 4
incision. —::i
310- representative section of soft, tan, demarcated lesion in the lower outer : l ,
quadrant. I x:
311— representative section through a firm area of breast tissue grossly J ‘%ffﬁx

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

separate from the main lesion by approximately 2 cm also near the lower

outer quadrant.
312- representative section of dense and cystic otherwise unremarkable breast

tissue from the upper outer quadrant.
Bl3— representative section of breast tissue from lower outer quadrant.

lof2

 

 

 

Eld— representative section of dense breast tissue from upper inner quadrant.
815— representative section of dense breast tissue from lower inner quadrant.
316— representative section of breast tissue from beneath the nipple.

817— representative section from small skin lesion.

The axillary dissection is approximately 13 x 10 x 2 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is divided into the usual three levels and examined for lymph
node candidates. There are numerous lymph node each of three levels. The lymph
nodes measures up to 4 cm in greatest dimension. This largest lymph node is
located in level I. Sectioning through this largest lymph node reveals that is
appears to be completely replaced by adipose tissue.

BLOCK SUMMARY:
818—821— lymph nodes from level I as follows:

818- representative section of largest lymph node.
819— two bisected lymph node, one inked blue.

320— one bisected lymph node.

B21— one bisected lymph node.

BZZ—BZS— lymph nodes from level II as follows:

822‘ five intact lymph node candidates.

823- one bisected lymph node candidate.

B24-B25- one bisected lymph node candidate (one lymph node total in Block
B24—825).

826—830 lymph node candidates from level III as follows:

B26- eight lymph node candidates.

B27— two bisected lymph node candidates, one ink blue.
328- three intact lymph node candidates.

529- one bisected lymph node candidate.

530- one bisected lymph node candidate.

for Dr.

INTRA OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
A. "Left breast biopsy": AFl— infiltrating carcinoma

DIAGNOSIS:
A. "LEFT BREAST BIOPSY":

INFILTRATING CARCINOMA.
B. "LEFT BREAST":

EXTENSIVE INEILTRATING LOBULAR CARCINOMA (GREATEST DIMENSION IN EXCESS OF 6
CM). SEE COMMENTI ____ ”I '

METASTATIC CARCINOMA PRESENT IN TWENTY FIVE OF TWENTY SEVEN (25/27)
AXILLARY LYMPH NODES. SEE COMMENT.

INFILTRATING CARCINOMA EXTENDS INTO SECTIONS OF LACTIFEROUS DUCT AND NIPPLE
AS WELL AS RANDOM SECTIONS OF BREAST QUADRANT. SEE COMMENT.

ALL SURGICAL MARGINS APPEAR FREE OF INVOLVEMENT.

COMMENT: Because of the multifocal and extensive nature of the tumor, exact
measurement are difficult to assess.

Immunohistochemical staining for keratin on each block of lymphoid tissue
reveals extensive infiltration of most lymph nodes. There does not appear to
be associated extracapsular extension.
Verified by:
Dad:

20f2

