 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A/l. SPECIMEN LABELED "RIGHT RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY":
CLEAR CELL RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, Fuhrman nuclear grade II‘of IV (6.0 cm)
arising in the right lower pole.
Tumor is limited to the kidney.
Ureteral, renal artery, renal vein, and Gerota's fascia margins are negative
for tumor.
Lymphovascular invasion is present but no involvement of the main renal vein is
seen.
AJCC Classification (6th Edition): le NX MX.
The non-neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and
the findings will be reported in an addendum.

1

B/2. SPECIMEN LABELED "REGIONAL LYMPH NODES":
Fibroadipose tissue with no significant pathologic change.
No lymph nodes identified.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: None given.

Operation: Right radical nephrectomy, regional lymph node dissection.
Operative Findings: None given.

Clinical Diagnosis: Renal cell carcinoma.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/1. Right radical nephrectomy to F8 at -
B/2. Regional lymph nodes.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patient's
name and unit number.

Part A? "#1. Right radical nephrectomy", consists of a 510—gram radical
nephrectomy specimen (23.0 x 11.0 x 6.5 cm), with an ureter (5.0 x 0.3 cm), a
renal artery (0.7 x 0.3 cm), and a renal vein (0.2 x 1.3 cm). The attached
Gerota fascia consists of tan/yellow lobulated adipose tissue. The capsule
strips with ease over the majority of the specimen except focally above the
inferior pole. A tan to tan/orange, partially hemorrhagic tumor (6.0 x 4.0 x
5.5 cm). There is also a unilocular cyst containing tan/yellow serous fluid
(3.0 x 2.0 x 2.2 cm). The tumor extends to the outer surface of the kidney but
does not involve the surrounding Gerota's fascia. The tumor is located in the
lower pole, 5.5 cm from the ureteral margin, 3.0 cm from the renal vein, 1.5 cm
from the renal artery, and 0.5 cm from the perinephric margin (inked black).
The distal end of the renal artery ( 0.1 cm from the margin) is focally firm.
The remaining renal cortex is tan/brown with a well—defined corticomedullary
junction. The pelvis and calyces are covered by smooth, glistening mucosa. A
representative section of tumor is submitted to cytogenetics, and the tissue
bank. Representative section of the cortex and medulla are submitted to tissue
bank, and for EM and IF.

Micro A1: Renal artery and vein margins, 2 frags,

Micro A2: Additional section of renal artery, 1 frag, -

Micro A3: Ureteral margin, 1 frag,

Micro A4: Quick fix (tissue adjacent to tissue taken for tissue banking), 1
frag,

M-inrn AR. nn-inlz F-iv If'iaana {-2)an adjanani- i—n i—w'aaun t-nlrnn For t-nmnr hankinn)

 

 

1 frag,
Micro A — : Tumor to Gerota's fascia, with the section of cyst in :5, 2 Irags
total,

Micro A8: Section of tumor to hilar fat, 1 fra
Micro A9: Section of tumor to normal 1 frag,

Micro A10: Normal kidney, 1 frag, -

. . IIIIIIIIIIIKB
Part B, "#2. Regional lymph node", con51sts of an irregular tan/yellow,
lobulated portion of adipose tissue (2.4 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm) with no definitive

lymph node structures.

Micro El: 1 frag, -
-

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

  

ADDENDUM #1

RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF NON-NEOPLASTIC KIDNEY PARENCHYMA
RIGHT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY:

KIDNEY WITH MINOR, NON—SPECIFIC ABNORMALITIES (SEE NOTE)

NOTE:

The sample of kidney parenchyma shows minimal chronic changes. The changes are
non-specific and do not point to a specific disease entity. There is very mild
glomerular hypertrophy, but the glomeruli are well preserved. Minimal tubular
atrophy and interstitial fibrosis (less than 5% of the parenchyma) is noted,
and arteries and arterioles also show minimal chronic damage.

Pat!0!Ongt.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:

Sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue (block A10) were evaluated
by light microscopy using H&E, PAS, - silver methenamine, and AFOG
(trichrome) stains.

The sample consists of kidney cortex and medulla. There are 206 glomeruli
present, of which one (1) is globally sclerosed. The glomeruli show mild
glomerular hypertrophy and minimal focal expansion of the mesangial areas.
There are only isolated, mild irregularities of the glomerular capillary wall
basement membranes. Rare distal tubules contain PAS-positive hyaline casts.
Isolated tubular epithelial cells contain small quantities of protein
reabsorption granules. Less than 5% of the cortical parenchyma shows tubular
atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. Arteries and arterioles exhibit mild, focal
sclerosis of the wall.

 

 

KARYOTYPE: 45,XY,der(3)t(3;8)(p21;q22),-8[4]/92,XXYY[1]
METAPHASES COUNTED: 5 ANALYZED: 5 SCORED: 5 BANDING: GTG

INTERPRETATION:

4 of 5 metaphase cells contained an unbalanced translocation, resulting in
deletion of the chromosome 3 short arm. This cytogenetic aberration is a
typical finding in renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type.

COMMENTS:

Mosaicism and small chromosome abnormalities may not be detectable using the
standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:

 

 

