    

A. OMENTUM, OMENTECTOMY: METASTATIC HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA
WITH FEATURES OF OVARIAN PAPILLARY SEROUS CARCINOMA. SEE

NOTE.
B. LEFT PELVIS, TUMOR MASS, BIOPSY: HIGH—GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA.

SEE NOTE.

C. RIGHT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
PAPILLARY SEROUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH INVASION INTO

FALLOPIAN TUBE. SEE NOTE.

D. LEFT PELVIS, TUMOR MASS, BIOPSY: HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA.

SEE NOTE.

E. PELVIS, TUMOR MASS, BIOPSY: HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA,
PREDOMINANTLY SEROUS PAPILLARY. SEE NOTE.

F. SIGMOID, TUMOR MASS, BIOPSY: HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA.

SEE NOTE.
G. UTERUS AND CERVIX, ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

UTERUS:

1. POSTERIOR SEROSAL IMPLANT OF SEROUS PAPILLARY
ADENOCARCINOMA. SEE NOTE.

2. LEFT PARAMETRIAL TISSUE WITH SEROUS PAPILLARY
ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVEMENT.

J’. INACTIVE ENDOMETRIUM.
Page 1 of4

CERVIX:

1. SQUAMOUS METAPLASIA.

H. SIGMOID SEROSA, TUMOR MASS, BIOPSY: HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA. 5
SEE NOTE.
COMMENT: }
NOTES: '
This high-grade adenocarcinoma appears to be of ovarian origin with widespread peritoneai implants.

The carcinoma shows a predominantly serous papillary pattern, but a large amount of the tumor

burden displays a solid glandular pattern. Numerous psammoma bodies are present.

Focai lymphovascuiar invasion is seen.

Although no peritoneai wash specimen was obtained, peritoneal washings are presumed to be

positive due to the large amount of tumor present in the peritoneal cavity as weil as tumor invasion

present in the fallopian tube. _
Given the pelvic extension, uterine impiant and presumed positive peritoneal wash, the pathologic

staie of this tumor accordini to the UICC sistem would be pTZCNXMX.

Specimen(s) Received
A:A) OMENTUM

8:8) PELVIC MASS LEFI’
C:C) RT OVARY & TUBE

, :D) LT PELVIC MASS

' E:E) PELVIC TUMOR

 

  
 

 

3:6) SIGMOID TUMOR
H:H) SIGMOID SEROSA TUMOR

Clinical Histor
with ovarian carcinoma.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in multiple parts labeled with the patient‘s name and ID number. Parts A
through E are received fresh and parts F through H are received in formalin.

Parts A, additionally labeled "omentum" consists of a large mass of soft, irregularly—shaped,
red—white-yellow tissue measuring 15.0 x 12.0 x 6.0 cm in greatest dimension. This tissue mass
appears to comprise of some omental fat which is studded with multiple nodules of varying sizes.
The nodules appear to be confluent in some areas. The nodules range in size from 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm
to 6.0 x 5.0 X 3.0 cm. These multiple nodules appear to have various consistencies. One of the large
nodules is tan—white and firm; a section of this large firm nodule is submitted for frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS #1

Omentum, biopsy: tissue consistent with metastatic carcinoma of ovarian origin, with features of
Page 2 of4

papillary serous carcinoma. —

The remainder of this frozen section specimen is submitted entirely in cassette A1.

In addition to this large firm nodule (6.0 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm, frozen section obtained from middle of
nodule), there are additional nodules which are slightly softer in consistency. Also present are some
thin, fluid-filled cysts. These nodules are scattered throughout the omentum and are at the edges of
the resected specimen. Serial sectioning of all nodules reveal that most nodules are of the firm—white
variety with a few nodules being extremely soft and almost papillated on cut appearance. The thin,
luld-filled areas when out reveal cystic spaces filled with some clear serous fluid as well as some
papillary regions. Additional representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette A2 Cystic portion of tumor with cyst wall and

papillary excrescences extruding into cyst wall

Cassette A3 Additional section of fibrous large nodule

Cassette A4 Representative section of soft papillary portion

of tumor

Cassette A5 Additional representative section of one of the

firm nodules

Part B, additionally labeled "pelvic mass left" consists of multiple fragments of extremely soft,
irregularly—shaped, tan-white tissue measuring approximately 6.0 x 7.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. A
small piece of this tissue is submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS #2

Left pelvic mass, biopsy: neoplasm, favor malignant, final diagnosis deferred.-

The remainder of the frozen section tissue is submitted entirely in cassette BI. An additional
representative section is submitted in cassette 82.
Part C, additionally labeled "right ovary and tube" consists of a large mass of soft, irregularly—shaped
bosselated tissue measuring 7.0 x 7.0 x 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. Protruding along one edge of
this mass of tissue appears to be a fallopian tube which is slightly dilated in portions, especially more
distal. The fimbriated ends of the this fallopian tube are slightly blunted. A small, white, firm
structure, possibly representing an ovary is noted on the surface of this mass and measures
approximately 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm. This mass is bisected to reveal an ovary which has been largely
replaced by this large soft, bosselated lesion. The remaining ovarian tissue appears to be grossly
unremarkable. This papillary process involves the entire ovary, however, no definite ovarian source

f origin is grossly identified. The fallopian tubes are then serially sectioned to reveal grossly
unremarkable fallopian tubes in the proximal portion and a dilated fallopian tube in the distal portion

with what appears to be tumor in the lumen. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette C1 Fallopian tube (normal and with tumor)

Cassette C2 Ovary with relation to papillary growth

Cassette C3 Additional section of grossly unremarkable

ovary adjacent to papillary growth

Part D, additionally labeled "left pelvic mass“ consists of multiple fragments of soft,
irregularly—shaped, tan-white papillated tissue measuring 10.0 x 5.5 x 5.0 cm in aggregate. No
identifiable organ is found within this tissue mass. Portions of the mass appears to be slightly more
solid while other portions are more papillary. Representative sections of the more solid portions are
submitted in cassette D1 and representative sections of the more papillary area are submitted in
cassette 02.

Part E, additionally labeled "pelvic tumor" consists of multiple fragments of friable,
irregularly—shaped, soft tan—yellow tissue measuring 15.0 x 11.0 x 6.0 cm in aggregate. The tissue
appears to consist of multiple nodules of friable solid to papillary tissue ranging in size from 0.5 x 0.3
Page 3 of4

x 0.1 cm to 9.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm. These large nodules are sectioned to reveal some predominantly
solid areas while other areas demonstrate a more papillary appearance. On the exterior surface of
one of the nodules, there appears to be a firm white—yellow fibrous portion of unknown significant.
Representative section of this firm white-yellow area next to tumor is submitted in cassette E1 and
an additional representative section of tumor is submitted in cassette E2.

Part F, additionally labeled "sigmoid tumor" consists of three friable pieces of red-tan, soft,
irregularly-shaped tissue measuring 2.0 x 0.8 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. One of the pieces appears to be
some fibrous tissue while the other two pieces are more polypoid in appearance. The two polypoid
pieces are bisected and the specimen is submitted entirely in cassette F1.

Part G, additionally labeled "uterus, cervix" consists of an uterus with attached cervix and without
adnexa weighing 47 grams. The uterus measures 7.3 cm from fundus to cervix, 4.1 cm from cornu to
:ornu, 2.9 cm from anterior to posterior, and is oriented by the peritoneal reflexion. The serosa is
smooth and is not distorted. The uterine cavity sounds to 6.3 cm. The cervix measures 2.5 cm in
lenght and 3.0 cm in width. The external 03 is fish mouth—shaped and measures 1.3 cm in width.
The uterus is opened along the lateral borders. The ectocervix and endocervicai canal are
unremarkable. The endometrium is ten, measures 0.1 cm in thickness, and contains no polyps. The
myometrium measures 1.2 cm and contains no leiomyomas. On the posterior surface of the cervical
uterine junction, there is a small firm nodule measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. This nodule is sectioned
to reveal a firm homogenous interior. The main substance of the uterus and cervix appear to be
grossly uninvolved by tumor; however, more parametrial tissue is present on the left than right. The
left parametrial tissue appears to be grossly involved by tumor. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

Cassette Gl Firm nodule at external posterior cervical

uterine junction (in entirety)

Cassette 62 Anterior cervix

Cassette G3 Posterior cervix

Cassette G4 Anterior endomyometrium

Cassette GS Posterior endomyometrium

Cassette G6 Left parametrium

Cassette G7 Right parametrium

Part H, additionally labeled "sigmoid serosa tumor" consists of multiple fragments of extremely
friable, irregulary—shaped, soft, tan-white tissue measuring 10.0 x 8.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. The
tissue is sectioned to reveal some portions of solid consistency while others are more papillary and
friable. Representative sections of the more solid portions are submitted in cassette H1 and

re rese ' ‘ apillary portions are submitted in cassette H2.

   

 

 

 

