 

UUID : 6A217FA6-SZOD-4E6E-9531-FBA67A4665C9
TCGA-GL-MEM-BlA-PR

Redacted
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmi

ummmmmmmmm
mmmmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmui

lac-04$ ﬂ0l3
[ u

Operative Procedure: 0W/ P ”mum w
Right partial nephrectomy 3.11:1 MM 004' 7
Specimen Received: [til/,{IP’
Right renal mass
Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

Kidney, right, partial nephrectomy:

Tumor histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, type 2

Sarcomatoid features (%): No
Tumor size: greatest dimension 4.8 cm

Other dimensions: 4.2 x 3.8 cm
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor is confined to the kidney
Focality: Unifocal

If multifocal, number of tumors: Not applicable
Fuhrman grade: 3 of 4
Perinephric fat invasion: No
Renal sinus invasion: Not examined
Renal vein involvement: Not examined
Adrenal gland present: No

If yes, involved by tumor: Not applicable

If yes, direct invasion or metastasis: Not applicable
Cancer at resection margin: No, See Note

If yes, location(s): Not applicable ’
Pathologic findings in nonneoplastic kidney: None
Hilar lymph nodes present: No

if yes, number involved/number present: Not applicable
Pathologic stage (2010): thb_ pNX_ pM-Not applicable

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:

The specimen is received in formalin labeled with the patient name and "right renal mass“ and consists of
a 4.8 x 4.2 x 3.8 cm partial

nephrectomy specimen. The specimen appears to be entirely made up by the mass.

The mass has a soft heterogeneous multiloculated yellow—tan and hemorrhagic cut

surface. A portion of thismass has been previously collected by the Tissue Bank. A gross photograph
has also been taken of the specimen.

There does not appear to be any attached uninvolved renal parenchyma.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 1-5.

 

 

‘ Microscopic ﬁescription:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination

ﬁndings

END OF REPORT

Taken:

Gender: M

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
    
  
 

 

@ae,_LssreL-m
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy

_¢-- .

HIPM Discrepancy
,..'-,._.—-..’—v__,—— __.__.
ifriar Malignancvltisxly"
ﬁual/Synchrouuu; Primaly ,
(35.: Is lclrtlc):

 

. , ulsdiixpi-‘IEEW

late “enigma: 4:2“: 5 :7”;H—"l

