   

CGAwBB—ZTBB

 

Material examined:

Left upper lobe, and others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Space-occupying lesion left upper lobe 53, E6: 06/06, status post—op. for prostate carcinoma, hitherto no chemotherapy;
histology: large-cell and partly polymorphocellular squamous cell carcinoma. '

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Apical pleura I: tissue measuring 2.3 x 0.8 cm and up to 0.4 cm thick with whitish vitreous section surfaces.

2.) Apical pieura ii: 0.5 cm flat, pale reddish tissue.

3.) 56: 0.3 cm brownish-gray particle, on one side questionable pleura and 0.3 cm piece of tissue.

4.) Lobar LN (station 12) lower lobe: 0.5 cm partly blackish, partly reddish portion of node.

5.) Left upper lobe: inflated, fixed left upper lobe measuring 23 x 14 x 8 cm, central bronchus resection plane located
just proximal to the bifurcation of the lingular bronchus. A 4.5 cm long branched staple suture iine in the dorsal region of
the hilus. A 1.5 cm mobile, grayish-black node at the hilus. in the lateral boundary region of segments 1, 2 and 3, an area
of the parietal pleura, measuring 15 x max. 5 cm, shows a plate-like increase up to a thickness of 0.5 cm, extensively
adhesive in parts and loosely attached in other parts. Segments 2 and 3 and also adjacent segments of 51 largely
occupied by a soft to moderately hard, centrally disintegrated pale-brownish tumor, max. 9 cm in size, with a relatively
clear and vaguely arcuate demarcation and yellowish areas. Tumor extension to the pleura in the region of the adhesion
and to within 0.5 cm of the hilar resection surface, with uncertain involvement of central nodes by the tumor.
Truncation of intermediate parts of Bl, B2 and B3 in the tumor. Focal tumor spread to the medial pleura over 52, where
there is a 0.5 cm crack in the surface and suture material. Pieura in the vicinity is roughened or damaged and shows
patchy dark discoloration. Parenchyrna in the tumor environment partly indurated and of brownish-yellow color, same
type of changes in segment 4.

6.) Lobar LN (station 12) lingula: 1.6 cm lesioned grayish-black node or node part.

7.) Interiobar LN (station It) left: 0.4 cm node or node part.

8.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: three lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts between 0.4 cm and 0.7 cm in size.

9.) Suhcarinal LN (station 7) left: 1.1 cm lesioned grayish-black node.

10.) Paraaortic LN (station 6) left: 1.8 cm lesioned node.

11.) Subaortic LN (aortopulmonary window) (station 5) left: 2 cm iesioned node part.

Examined:

1.) Rapid section remains + residual material.

2.) - 4.) Rapid section remains in each case.

5.) Tumor and remaining parenchyma with intermediate section of B3, 4 sections with pleura in the region of
the adhesion zone, 2 sections of hilar resection surface (color marking), 2 sections in the region of the
truncation, S 1/S3 peripheral, S4, hilar node (lameiiated), 4 further sections with parabronchial nodes,

6.) -11.) All material (in 10.) and 11.) preparations halved in each case),

23 blocks, partly_ PAS and aiso PAS with diastase staining.

 

Microscopy

Re 1.) and 2.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): ﬁbrosis and slight chronic inﬂammation, no
evidence of carcinoma.

Re 3.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation _): small portion of a large—cell solid carcinoma at the
margin of a chronic organizing inflammation.

Re 4.) Immediate intracperative evaluation : small lymph node without evidence of tumor.

Re 5.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation bronchus resection margin tumor—free.

Description of histological and cytological findings omitted for capacity reasons.
EVALUATlON

Primary diagnosisldiagnoses:
Large, bronchopulmonary, large—cell, polymorphocellular and partly gigantocellular, barely keratinizing squamous cell

carcinoma ranging from intermediate to peripheral, histologically poorly differentiated, in the upper lobe of the left lung
with localization in the boundary region of segments 1—3.

TNM classification according to this picture pT2 pNO pMX V1 RX, stage 13
C34.1 M8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:
Tumor necroses. Ectasia of small bronchial branches peripheral to the tumor with moderately marked chronic

inflammation. Focal, chronic organizing and focally fibrinous pneumonia at tumor margin, peripheral to the tumor in
51/3 and 54 (sample 5.)). Soft-tissue particles with chronic fibrosing inflammation {samples 1.) and 2.)). Lymph nodes
with uncharacteristic reactive lesions and anthracotic pigment deposits (samples 4.) - 11.)).

Remark/addendum:
The tumor extends peripherally to the visceral pleura in the area of adhesion with the parietal layer, there is no evidence

here to suggest inﬁltration of the visceral pleura. Over 52 there is a pleural defect; the tumor here shows a
circumscribed extension to the preparation surface, and a further small part of the tumor is contained in sample 3.), so
from a patho-anatomical perspective a category of RX is arrived at. The resection margin of the bronchus and vessels
and also all the lymph nodes removed and identiﬁed are tumor-free.

 

Material examined:

Left upper lobe, and others

1. Additional report

After consultation by phone _) the origin of the resected tissue of sample 3.) must be corrected. The
particle comes from $2.

