Results Surgical Pathology (enter1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC
ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm

 

Result Information
Status (Last updated Date/Time)

Accessl'in #

Rncnlf lmnrnqeinn

 

 

UUID: BBBlBBEA- 425D- 411D- AMIC- EE43886éEe867a
TCGA- UB- A7MC- 91A- PR

||| IIIHIII|||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||l||l||||IIIIIIRIIIIIIIIICIIe
Ill HIIIIIINIIHIIIHIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIHIlllllllllllllllllllllll

Ill[llll|ll|||ll|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
SURGLCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT My M'0 V 5

(W N08
9/70 5
[Pb I

Patient Name: . _

Med. Rec.#: WgJJLW/Ldél—M
DOB: _.
Sex: Ma 8 (pAWM/Cd 8/ 3b/LS
Soc. Sec. #:

Visit #:

- . J 47/91 5/13
r C

to: 0%

Locati:

Client:
Physicj

  
 
     
 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node, left hepatic artery, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node
(0/1).

B. Lymph node, cystic artery, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node
(0/1).

C. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Focal mucosal autolysis, otherwise no
significant pathologic abnormality.

D. Lymph node, portal caval, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1).

E.‘ Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy:

Hepatocellular carcinoma, two foci, 9 cm and 7 cm in greatest
dimension, moderately to poorly differentiated with vascular invasion,
margins negative; see comment.

2. Chronic hepatitis B (activity grade 1, fibrosis stage 2); see
comment.

H

COMMENT:
Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment

— Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma: mixed type with trabecular,

pleomorphic, and pseudoglandular areas.

- Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated.

— Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion): 9 cm.

- Tumor necrosis: (10%.

— Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver

parenchyma): Present.

— Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 16 cm.
‘— Vascular invasion: Present.in small vessels (slide E5).

- Hepatic capsule: Tumor abuts capsule.

- Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver.

— Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 0.9 cm from the surgical
resection margin. .

— The tumor is within 4 mm of the diaphragm and within 0.5 mm of the
site marked IVC sidewall.

- Non—neoplastic liver: Hepatitis B.

- Iron stain: Negative (performed and evaluated on block E10).

— Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver): None.

— Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 3.

- AJCC Stage: pT3aNO.

To further characterize the background liver, immunohistochemical stains
for hepatitis B virus surface and core antigens were obtained on
sections of non—neoplastic liver (block E10). Hepatocytes showed
diffuse staining for HBV surface antigen and were negative for core
antigen, supporting a diagnosis of chronic Hepatitis B.

Trichome stain was performed on block E10 and highlights the presence of
. septal fibrosis with occasional bridging fibrosis without architectural
distortion, consistent with an overall fibrosis stage 2.

Immunostain for vascular marker (ERG) was performed and evaluated on
block E5 and confirms the diagnosis of vascular invasion.

has reviewed slides E5 and E7 (HaE and ERG stains) and
agrees with the diagnosis of vascular invasion.

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the

They have not been cleared or approved by the
U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such
clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for
clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or
for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to
perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Specimen(s) Received

Azleft hepatic artery lymph node

B cystic artery lymph node

C:gallbladder

D:portal caval lymph node

Ezright hepatectomy with partial diaphragm

Clinical History

Collection Time:

Relevant History: yo w/hx of HBV (recently started Tenofovir) who
complained of right groin pain. Workup included a CT scan . that
demonstrated a large liver mass. The case was discussed at liver

tumor board with recommnedations to pursue surgical resection.

The patient is a year—old man with a history of hepatitis B virus
(recently started Tenofovir) and heavy alcohol use. CT scan on

showed a large liver mass. He is now undergoing resection. According
to . imaging found a bilobed, heterogeneously enhancing mass
centered in segment 7 of the liver. The mass is partially exophytic and
'has contact with the right hemidiaphragm. There is mass effect on the
IVC and on the right hepatic vein.

Gross Description
The case is received in five parts, labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "left hepatic artery
LN," and consists of a single intact, ovoid lymph node (1.1 x 0.6 x 0.5
cm). The node is bisected to reveal a grossly unremarkable, solid,
tan—pink cut surface. The nodes is submitted in its entirety in
cassette A1. ‘

Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "cystic artery LN,"
and consists of a single tan—brown, ovoid, intact lymph node (1.1 x 0.6
x 0.3 cm) with scant attached soft, yellow fibroadipose tissue. The
node is bivalved to reveal a grossly unremarkable, solid, tan—pink cut
surface. The node is submitted in its entirety in cassette Bl.

Part C is received fresh and additionally labeled "gallbladder,“
and consists of an intact gallbladder (5.5 cm in length, 2.1 cm in
diameter at fundus, 1.1 cm diameter a neck). The gallbladder is
bright-green and has a smooth and glistening serosal surface. The
adventitial surface is dull and ragged but intact. The cystic duct
margin measures 0.5 cm in outside diameter and is free of impacting
calculi. The gallbladder contains thin, green bile and is devoid of
stones. The gallbladder wall is thin and pliable, of even thickness
(0.2 cm) and free of any areas of induration. The gallbladder mucosa is
green and velvety, free of any areas of ulceration or polyps. No cystic
duct lymph node is identified. Representative sections, including the
inked cystic duct margin, are submitted in cassette Cl.

Part D‘is received fresh and additionally labeled "portal caval LN," and
consists of a single intact, ovoid lymph node (1.6 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm) with
a scant amount of attached yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. The node
is sectioned to reveal a congested but otherwise grossly unremarkable,
tan—pink cut surface. The node is submitted in its entirety in cassette
01.

Part E is received fresh and additionally labeled "right hepatectomy
with partial diaphragm," and consists of a portion of liver (885 gm;
13.5 cm from right to left x 11 cm from anterior to posterior x 18 cm

from superior to inferior). There is an exophytic mass on the superior
surface, which has been cut in to prior to recept by Pathology, and
harvested for banking by . The mass is soft, yellow-gold and

homogenous (7 x 6 x 6 cm), and is within 0.1 cm of the capsule and 0.7
cm from the surgical resection margin. There is a second lesion
adjacent to the first lesion, which is larger and appears to be a »
distinct lesion, and is soft, yellow~gold and focally hemorrhagic (9 x 6

x 6 cm) and is 1.4 cm from the surgical resection margin. There is a
vessel running between the two lesions, which does not appear to be
involved. There is an oval white-tan fragment of diaphragm on the
superior surface of the specimen. The tumor appears to be abutting, but
does not invade the diaphragm. The remainder of the hepatic parenchyma
is firm, red-brown and without nodules.

ORIENTED BY : Surgeon's sutures (black short stitch = sidewall of
vena cava, black long stitch = right hepatic vein).
INKING:

- Surgical margin: Black.

— Right hepatic vein: Yellow.
— sidewall vena cava: Green.
— Diaphragm: Green.

CASSETTES: Representative sections are Submitted as follows:

E1: Right hepatic vein margin.

E2: VeSsel between lesions.

E3: Lesion #1, closest approach to capsule.
E4: Lesion #1, closest approach to diaphragm.
E5: Lesion #1, with adjacent normal parenchyma.
E6: Lesion #2.

E7: Lesion #2, with adjacent normal.

E8: Lesion #2, closest approach to capsule.
E9: Lesion #1.

E10: Uninvolved hepatic parenchyma.

Ell: Lesion #1 with IVC sidewall.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis
made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides.
The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary
interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and
performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

Electronically signed out on

Pathology PDF Report

Show images for Surgical Pathology ‘ ’ (enter1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATlC
ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm

Authorizing Provider Information

 

Name:

Phone:

Signed by

 

Signed Phone Pager

Result History ‘
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

 

 

Surgical Pathology , (enter 1 oer Ilnel: Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH
NODE for germ

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below.

Surgical Pathology
(enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT
HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm Authorizm

Pathology and Cytology ~ Departmei

 

 

Show images for Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC
ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm

Order information

 

Order Date/Time Release Date/Time Start Date/Time End Date/Time

Release Information

 

Released On Released By

Order Details

 

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
Once 1 occurrence Routine Unit Collect

Order Questions

 

Question Answer Comment

Specimen ‘ (enter1 perline) Specimen #1
LEFT HEPATIC
ARTERY LYMPH
NODE for perm

yo wlhx of HBV

(recently started
Tenofovir) who
complained of
right groin pain.
Workup included a
CT scan that
demonstrated a
large liver mass.
The case was
discussed a'
liver tumor board
with
recommnedations
to pursue surgical
resection.

Lab Collection and Receipt information
Collect Date Collect Time Collected By Lab Receipt Date Lab Receipt Time

Collection Information

 

Resulting Agency

‘

Order Provider Info
Ofﬁce ’
phone Pager/beeper E-mail

Ordering User
Authorizing Provider

Billing Provider

Electronically Signed By:
Electronically Authorized By Electronically Ordered-By

Acknowledgement Info
For At 7 Acknowledged By Acknowledged On

Order Status for: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Parent Status: Completed

Child Orders
(This order does not yet have any children)

Order Requisition
Surcical Patholoqv
NODE for gem

(enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH

 
 
   
  
  
  
   

«”riteria
I.“ agnom‘
lumor Site

  
    

him,“
iuur
.15"—
(are is

j lnlllats

 
   
 

 

