 

Phon

 

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis

A. Lung, left lower lobe, excision -

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (see microscopic
description).

Margins negative for malignancy.

Metastatic carcinoma in three of fourteen (3/l4) hilar lymph nodes.

B,C,D. Lymph nodes, level 9, level 7, and level 5, excisions -
Negative for tumor.

Microscopic Description:

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma comprising the mass lesion in
part A

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): pT2a. The carcinoma is 3.5 cm in greatest
dimension. To the extent assessable given fragmentation, there is not
pleural invasion.

Margins of resection: Negative

Direct extension of tumor: Not definitively identified

Vascular invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): le. There is metastatic carcinoma in
three of fourteen (3/l4) hilar lymph nodes identified in part A. The
separately submitted lymph nodes in parts B, C, & D are negative for
tumor.

Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Other findings: Scattered chronic inflammation and emphysematous
changes

Note: The carcinoma immunostains for p63 and not for TTF-l, nor does
it immunostain for synaptophysin or chromogranin. This supports
classification of this non-small cell carcinoma as poorly
differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their perforance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

Specimen

A. Left lower lobe

B. Level 9 lymph node
C. Level 7 lymph node
D. Level 5 lymph node

Clinical Information
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer

Gross Description
A. Received fresh in a container labeled "left lower lobe" is a 187 g,
18 x 9.5 x 5 cm, lobectomy specimen. The bronchial stump is 1.5 cm
long and without focal lesion. The vascular margin is also grossly
unremarkable. The pleural surface is smooth glistening tan-red. There
is a torn area on the pleural surface revealing a 3.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm
tan—pink mass. Although the prior tearing limits assessment, the mass
does not appear to involve the pleura. The lung away from the mass is
spongy and tan-pink, without additional lesions. There are gray-black
lymph nodes in the hilar region up to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension.
RS—12, following fixation, according to the accompanying block summary.
Please note tissue is taken for tissue procurement per the clinical
request.

BLOCK SUMMARY: A1 — bronchial margin; A2 — vascular margins; A3 —A7 —
lesion, including relationship to disrupted pleura and adjacent
parenchyma; A8 — tumor to hilar region, including two intraparenchymal
lymph nodes; A9,A10 — lung away from tumor; A11,A12 —lymph nodes, with
six lymph nodes per block.

B. Received fresh in a container labeled "level 9 lymph node" is a 0.5
cm soft t ay lymph node with a scant amount of associated adipose
tissue.

C. Received fresh in a container labeled "level 7 lymph node" are two

tan-gray lymph nodes, 0.8 cm and 1.8 cm in greatest dimension.

D. Received fresh in a container labeled "level 5 lymph node" is a 0.5
cm soft gray-blac mph node, with a scant amount of associated
pose tissue.

