UUID: 8885751D— ”76- 489E- SDSC- C670982583Ee6d
TCGA- 68-A591- 01A- PR

lll lllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllellllllllleﬂl
Ill lllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll l
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllgllllllgI"

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

ICQDO 3

Patient Age/Sex I F W %W Nadiﬁé'

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED: M67915

Part A: LEFTLUNG 5!): @3i

Part B: LEFT RIB

PartC:7R :9?) ,j7) MB

Part D: 11L
Part E: 10L

4343

Final Diagnosis

1. Left lung, pneumonectomy (A) — Invasive moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.
- Three (3) of fifteen (15) lymph nodes positive for tumor (3/15).

2. Left rib. partial excision (B) - Grossly unremarkable rib (gross diagnosis only).
3. Lymph node, 7R, excision (C) Non-diagnostic. (See general comment).
4. Lymph node, 11L, excision (D) One (1) node with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. (1/1).

5. Lymph nodes, 10L, excision (E) Two (2) of three (3) lymph nodes with metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma (2/3).

 

Page i of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
LUNG SYNOPTlC REPORT

SPECIMEN: Lung

PROCEDURE: Pneumonectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Disrupted

SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Left

TUMOR SITE: Lower lobe

TUMOR SIZE: 8.0 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm.

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal

HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Squamous celI carcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: (32 moderately differentiated

VISCERAL PLEURAL INVASION: Not identiﬁed.

TUMOR EXTENSION: Tumor involves main bronchus 2 cm or more distal to carina
MARGINS:

- Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma and carcinoma in situ.

- Vascular Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

~ Parenchymal margin: Not applicable.

- Parietal pleural margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

- Chest walt margin: Not applicable. .
- Other attached tissue margin: Pericardial margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Diaphragmatic margin
uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

- Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.2 cm (mediastinal margin).
TREATMENT EFFECT: Not applicable.

TUMOR ASSOCIATED ATELECTASIS OR OBSTRUCTIVE PNEUMONITIS: Involves entire lung.
LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Present.

LYMPH NODES: Extranodal extension not identified.

PATHOLOGIC STAGING: Stage lllA

pT3

pNi

Number of lymph nodes examined: 19 ( not including part C)

Number of lymph nodes involved: 6 (not including part C).

pM Not applicable.

Additional pathologic findings not identiﬁed.

Ancillary studies: lmmunohistochemistry for p63 and TTFi Were performed on block A6 during the
interpretation of this case and support the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma.

General comment: Tissue from the Specimen labeled 7R (Part C) was lost in processing in the Department of
Anatomic Pathology and therefore is non-diagnostic. Overall pathologic staging of the specimen is not
affected.

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Lung, left, pneumonectomy (FS) - Bronchial margin, negative for neoplasm

 

Page 2 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Clinical Diagnosis:
H/O LUNG CANCER

 

Page 3 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

W

A. Received in formalin is a specimen labeled "left lung". The specimen consists of a lung
measuring 15 x 10 x 7.5 cm, tightly adhered pericardium measuring 10 x 8.5 x 0.5 cm and diaphragm
measuring 4.5 x 2 x 0.2 cm. The specimen weighs 606 grams. The bronchial remnant measures 2.4
cm in length and 1.4 cm in diameter. The pericardium is inked green, the diaphragm margin is inked
black, the mediastinal soft tissue margin and perihilar pleural surface is inked blue. The pleura is
incomplete on the Iateral aspect of the lung on both the upper and lower lobes (orange ink). The
diaphragmatic surface of the lung is also incomplete with an open defect showing a visibly necrotic
cavity within the lower lobe of the lung. No areas of puckering are present along the pleural surface.
The specimen is sectioned in a transverse plane to reveal a firm, gray-white mass with central necrosis
measuring 8 x 7 x 6 cm. The necrosis is more prominent in the most inferior aspect of the lung. The
greatest dimension of the mass is in the cranial caudal plane. The mass is present from the hilar region
and extends inferior through the lower lobe to the diaphragmatic aspect. The lung parenchyma adjacent
to the mass is soft and tan-orange. The upper and lower lobes are ﬁrmly adhered at the oblique ﬁssure
in the area of the mass showing possible involvement in the upper lobe (section A14). The mass does
involve the bronchus and extending within 1.5 cm from the bronchial margin. The mass grossly abuts
the diaphragm margin (black inked), the medial pleural surface at the level surrounding the hilum (blue
inked) and the lateral pleural defect (inked orange). The mass comes within 0.3 cm of the mediastinal
tissue margin (blue inked) and within 0.5 cm of the pericardial margin (green inked). The vessels at the
hilar level appear to be grossly involved. Mucous plugs are identiﬁed diffusely throughout the bronchi.
The mucous plugs are prominent within the posterior aspect of the upper and lower lobe bronchioles
ranging in size from 0.1 to 0.2 cm. The upper lobe lung parenchyma appears grossly unremarkable and
is smooth, red and spongy. No intraparenchymal lymph nodes are identified. Peribronchial lymph
nodes are identiﬁed and range in size from 0.3 to 1.3 cm. Perihilar lymph nodes are identiﬁed and
range in size from 0.9 to 1.6 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A2 - vascular
shave margin; A3 -A5 - mass in relationship to diaphragm; A6 - mass in relationship to mediastinal soft
tissue margin; A7 and A8 — mass in relationship to pericardial margin; A9 - mass in relationship to
bronchus and pleura; A10 through A13 — mass in relationship to pleural margin; A14 - mass at lung
fissure; A15 — mass in relationship to hilar vasculature; A16 — mass in relationship to lateral pleural
defect; A17 and A18 — additional sections of mass non-marginal; A19 and A20 - sections of upper lobe
posterior aspect with mucus plugs; A21 - section of upper lobe anterior aspect; A22 - section of upper
lobe middle aspect; A23 - section of apex; A24 - perihilar lymph nodes; A25— A26 — peribronchial lymph
nodes.

B. Received fresh labeled "L rib" is one fragment of rib measuring 18 cm x 1.7 x 0.6 cm. No sections
are submitted. Gross diagnosis only.

C. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled ”7R" is an irregular-shaped segment of red-gray soft tissue
measuring 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

D. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "11L" is an irregular-shaped segment of red-gray soft tissue
measuring 2.1 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

E. Received fresh on Telfa gauze labeled "10L" are multiple irregular-shaped segments of red-gray soft

 

Page 4 of 5

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

tissue aggregating to 1.8 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

 

Page 5 of 5

