UUID:BEFSZEDC-3074-4BAA-99AA-862741055255 m0) ‘c ’5

mIIuIuiiiiililiiliiiiliiiiiiimunIIlll'ie“““d , m’ 1,, . ~ .
mum" We .,

IIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII! lllllllllll IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIII . a 52 1 3

SW“ I”llllllllllll"IIIIHIIIHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll WW4“

Gender: Male v 641E, ® LH£LLW~N5§$4

DOB: f ’

Race: White 94> ﬁlial“,

Report Date:

Tissue Procurement Date:

Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. #7 lymph node; biopsy:
- One anthracotic lymph node, no tumor (0/1).

B. #8 lymph node; biopsy:
- Six anthracotic lymph nodes, no tumor (0/6).

C. #9 lymph node; biopsy:
- Three anthracotic lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 3).

D. 4R lymph node; biopsy:
- One of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic tumor (1/8).

E. Right pleura, diaphragm, pericardium; resection:
- Malignant mesothelioma, epithelial type. See parameters and comment
- Four of twenty-four lymph nodes positive for metastastic mesothelioma.

Thoracic Mesothelioma Pathologic Parameters
Pleura/Pericardium, Resection

MACROSCOPIC

Specimen Type: Pleural and pericardial resection
Tumor Site: Right pleura

Tumor Conﬁguration and Size: Diffuse, Maximum thickness: 1.7 cm

MICROSCOPIC

Histologic Type: Epithelioid (epithelial) mesothelioma (60% tubular, 20%
trabecular, 10% micropapillary, 10% solid)
Tumor Extension:

Conﬂuent visceral pleural tumor (including ﬁssure)

Into but not through diaphragm

Lung parenchyma (El 0-1 1)

Into mediastinal fat (El-E2)

Into but not through the pericardium (El—E2)

Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion: Present
Margins: Cannot be assessed

*Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3, N2

pT3: Tumor (locally advanced but potentially resectable) involves any of
the ipsilateral

pleural surfaces, with at least 10f the following: invasion of the
endothoracic

fascia, invasion into mediastinal fat, solitary completely resectable focus of
tumor

invading the soft tissues of the chest wall, non—transmural involvement of the
pericardium

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

pN2: Metastases in the subcarinal lymph node(s) and/or the ipsilateral
internal mammary or mediastinal lymph node(s)

Specify: Number examined: 24

Number involved: 4

*Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for pleural mesothelioma of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC)
and the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Comment

Immunohistochemistry for WT—l (+ve), Calretinin (+ve), MOC31 (-ve) and BG8 (-ve)
confirms the diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma (block E7, controls
appropriate).

XXX
[] M.D.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD.

Electronically Signed Out by [], MD.

Clinical History:

The patient is a male with no a malignant pleural mesothelioma of

the right pleural space who undergoes a right thoracotomy parietal pleurectomy
and decortication.

Specimens Received:
A: #7 lymph node

B: #8 lymph node
C: #9 lymph node
D: 4R lymph node
B: Pleura, diaphragm, pericardiuim

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The first container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#7 lymph node“. Received
fresh and placed in formalin is an unoriented 2.8 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm portion of
gray-brown rubbery tissue with a small amount of attached lobulated yellow
adipose. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted as Al-A2.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#8 lymph node".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 4.3 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm portion of
lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes to
reveal 6 gray-black apparent lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-1.2 cm in greatest
dimension. All apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

B1: 3 lymph nodes

B2: 2 lymph nodes

B3: largest lymph node, bisected

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "#9 lymph node". Received
fresh and placed in formalin is a 2 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm unoriented portion of
lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue. The specimen is sectioned revealing 2
gray-black rubbery apparent lymph nodes measuring 0.6 and 0.8 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as C1.

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4R". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a 3 x 2.3 x 0.8 cm portion of lobulated yellow ﬁbrofatty
tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes to reveal 8 apparent tan to
gray-black rubbery lymph nodes ranging from 0.2-1 cm in greatest dimension. All
apparent lymph nodes are submitted as follows:

Dl-D2: 3 lymph nodes in each cassette

D3: 2 lymph nodes

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "5. Pleura, diaphragm and
pericardium“. Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 629.5 g, 34.5 x 25 x 3

cm portion of visceral pleura with attached 7 X 6.5 cm glistening pink-gray
membranous tissue designated pericardium (marked by a black suture) and attached
22.8 x 15 cm portion of diaphragm (marked by white suture). The specimen has an
overall volume of approximately 700 cc. The pericardium is smooth, glistening

and is inked blue. Adjacent to the pericardium is 8.5 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm area of
abundant yellow ﬁbrofatty tissue in which multiple apparent tan to gray-black
rubbery lymph nodes ranging from 0.3-1.5 cm in greatest dimension are

identiﬁed. Sectioning through the pericardium reveals patchy ill-deﬁned
gray-tan nodules ranging from 0.5-1.7 cm in greatest dimension which focally
abut the inked surface. The inner aspect of the specimen displays patchy areas
of visceral pleura measuring up to 7 x 6.7 cm. The superior inner aspect of the
specimen is covered by patchy gray-tan ﬁrm nodules ranging from 0.2-1.5 cm in
greatest dimension. The diaphragm is inked green. The diaphragm is difﬁrsely
covered by a grey-tan ﬁrm plaque ranges from 0.5—1.7 cm in thickness. Upon
sectioning, the plaque focally invades into the diaphragm muscle extending to
within 0.3 cm of the inked surface. Gross photographs are taken. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

E1-E2: pericardium

E3 -E4: sections of plaque and diaphragm, deepest invasion

E5-E7: additional sections of plaque and diaphragm

E8-El7: sections from remainder of specimen

E18-E19: 4 lymph nodes in each cassette

E20: one apparent lymph node, bisected

XXX

[]

 

