  

BEA-444662

 

SPECIMEN

A. Lymph node level 10
B. Right upper lobe

C. Lymph node R4

D. Lymph node level 7

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Right upper lobe lung cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
FSB} Right upper lobe — Poorly differentiated nonwsmall cell
carcinoma. Bronchial margin is negative for tumor.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"level 10 lymph node" are multiple black—tan irregular
rubbery tissue fragments which have an aggregate measurement of 2.5
X 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimens are entirely submitted in one
cassette. AS—l.
B. Submitted fresh for tissue procurement labeled ”right
upper lobe of lung” consists of a lobe of lung tissue with
an obvious large tumor mass present. The lobe measures maximally
15
x 9 X 8 cm. The portal surface is intact, though there are several
areas of a fibrotic—like change present where the tumor mass
appears
to approach the pleural surface. The larger of these is 5 cm in
size. The smaller is 4 cm. The surrounding normal pleura is drawn
into the edge of the sclerotic foci. Numerous white tapes with
sutures are present at the point of transaction of the lobe. It
has '
been amputated at the level of its main brunchus, which is stapled
closed. Frozen section is obtained from the bronchial margin
closest to that staple line. Sections into the lobe reveal the
presence of a very large tumor mass occupying a large amount of the
parenchyma. It measures 8 x 7 x 6 cm and is composed of spiculated

GROSS DESCRIPTION
dark tan—gray tumor with flecks of anthracotic pigment present
within it. As noted above, it approached the pleura at least in
two
different foci. Representative portion of the tumor is submitted
for tissue procurement per request of - -. A portion is also
submitted for frozen section. Sections after fixation.
Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"lymph node R4". The specimen consists of multiple
brown—tan irregular rubbery tissue fragments which have an
aggregate
measurement of 3.5 x 3.0 x 0.7 cm. The specimens are entirely

submitted in one cassette. -

 

 

D. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"lymph node level 7" are multiple black—tan~yellow
irregular rubbery to soft tissue fragments which have an aggregate
measurement of 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm4 The specimens are entirely
submitted in one cassette. AS—l.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Non—small cell carcinoma.
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures maximally 8 cm. in greatest
extent and does not involve the visceral pleural surface (pTZ).
Margins of resection: Negative.
Direct extension of tumor: Absent.
Venous {large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Negative.
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Negative.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): Mediastinal lymph nodes level 10, R4
and
level 7 are all negative for metastatic carcinoma (pNO).
Distant metastasis (pM): Could not be assessed (pr).

 

5, 3X3

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node, level 10, resection:
Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

B. Lung, right upper lobectomy:
Invasive poorly differentiated nonwsmall cell carcinoma.
Visceral pleural surface, vascular and bronchial margins of
resection are free of involvement by tumor.

C. Lymph node, R4, resection:
Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

D. Lymph node, level 7, resection:
Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

 

 

