Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Lymph node, 4R lower paratracheal, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1).

Lymph node, 5 AP window, excision:

No significant pathologic change (1).

Lymph node, 2R upper paratracheal, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1).

Lymph node, 8R para-esophageal, excision:
Lymphoid hyperplasia.

Lymph node, 9 inferior pulmonary ligament, excision:
No significant pathologic change (1).

Lymph nodes, 10R, tracheobronchial, excision:
No significant pathologic change (3).

B. Lung, right lower lobe, excisional biopsy:

Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma involving the pleura, but not the
pleural margin (T2, N0, MX); bronchial margin free of tumor.

Lymph nodes, right lobar and intralobar, excision:

Granuloma (1/8).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

***Electronically Signed ***

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Lung, right lower and middle, pleural margin:
Margins are negative.

-
_ _ -
Gross Description:
The specimen is received in two parts, each with the patient's name, "

A. Part A consists of a lymph node box. Compartment number four - lower
paratracheal, consists of a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. gray-yellow to brown-black
pigmented lymph node which is submitted in toto in cassette "A 1".

Compartment number five - AP window, consists of a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm.,
brown-black, pigmented, rubbery tissue grossly consistent with lymph node which
is submitted in toto in cassette "A 2".

Compartment number two - upper paratracheal, consists of a 0.8 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm.
brown-black, rubbery tissue which is grossly consistent with lymph node and
submitted in toto in cassette "A 3".

Compartment number eight - para esophagus, consists of two irregular, pink-tan
to brown-black, rubbery tissues with dimensions of 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm. and 5.0 x
2.0 x 0.8 cm. The smallest tissue is grossly consistent with lymph node and is
submitted in toto in cassette "A 4" while the largest tissue is grossly

consistent with confluence of lymph node which is quadrisected and entirely
submitted in cassettes "A 5-8".

Compartment number nine - inferior pulmonary ligament, consists of a 0.9 x 0.4 x
0.3 cm. gray-tan to brown-black, rubbery tissue which is submitted in toto in
cassette "A 9".

Compartment number ten- tracheobronchial, consists of three gray-tan to
brown-black, rubbery tissues ranging from 0.4 to 1.0 cm. The tissues are
grossly consistent with lymph nodes. The two smallest tissues are submitted in
toto in cassette "A 10" while th largest is bisected and entirely submitted in
cassette "A 11".

B. Part B, received fresh for intraoperative consultation, labeled "right lower
and middle lobe of lung pleural margin", consists of a 340.0 gm. product of a
right middle and lower lobectomy. The hilar structures are grossly identified
and are surgically ligated. There are few hilar and peribronchial lymph nodes
identified. Within the lateral segment of the middle lobe is a large palpable
mass. The overlying pleura shows umbilication and granularity in an area that
has dimensions of 6.0 x 1.5 cm. The remaining pleura is gray-purple with mild
anthracotic pigment. Sectioning through the lung reveals a red-purple spongy
parenchyma that is remarkable for a large gray-tan, granular mass that is 2.8
cm. from the bronchial margin. The 6.3 x 4.7 x 4.5 cm mass is just subjacent to
the aforementioned area of pleural umbilication and granularity. Additionally,
the mass shows a central cavitation. The lower lower is grossly unremarkable.
A portion of the pleural margin has been submitted for frozen section diagnosis
and the residue resubmitted for permanents labeled "B 1" while additional
representative sections are submitted as labeled: "B 2" bronchial margin; "B 3"
vascular margin; "B 4-7" representative sections of aforementioned mass; "B 8"
representative sections of normal most lung parenchyma; "B 9-10" five lymph
nodes submitted in toto; "B 11" two bisected lymph nodes; "B 12" a single
trisected lymph node.

Microscopic Description:
A microscopic examination is performed.

Taken: -

