   

’1’C9A*0(ﬂ*0’7 7i]

 
  
 

Pathology-Report

ORY
Mitt} chronic hepatitis, cardiomyopathy and 8/? renal
transplantation comp a of weakness and falling, x 3. On imaging patient
has a 5.5—cm. intra axial, enhancing, necrotic mass in right frontal temporal

lobe.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Not Given

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain, Right parietal, biopsy
B: Brain,right parietal tumor, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A and 8. Brain, right parietal, excision: Glioblastoma. MlB—l proliferation
index: 12%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The sections contain portions of an astrocytic neoplastic proliferation that
infiltrates and extensively effaces the cerebrum. The neoplasm is
small—celled, and has nuclear anaplastic features, mitotic figures,
microvascular proliferation with vascular necrosis and thrombosis, and small
zones of tumor necrosis. The neurons contained within the neoplasm are
interpreted as non—neoplastic native neurons, and a neuronal component is
considered unlikely.

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA

MGMT Promoter lation

Date Ordered: Date Reported: _
Interpretation

NEGATEVE — No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

ResultSdComments
Received were paraffin curls labeled

TEST DESCRIPTION: Bisulfite treatment of DNA followed by PCR amplification of

both methylated and unmethylated MGMT promoter sequences, with products
——ﬁ’#*4—(r—'r—r"r"f:fg_‘ Page

 

 

detected by gel electrophoresis.

o be construed as the results from a

stand-alone diagnostic test. This t was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by the laboratory as
"egulations. It has not een (3 ea ed or approved for

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not t

required by CLIA
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A. Brain, right parietal, biopsy,
histological grade.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.
Received fresh, three fragments, 1.4—cm. in aggregate. Firm, glistening,

grayish—blue, fish-fleshy. In total, A1 and A2.

smear and touch preps: Glioma, high

B.
SPECIMEN: Right parietal brain tumor.

FIXATIVE: None.
GENERAL: Received are multiple pink—gray soft tissue fragments with scant

amount of attached dark red clotted blood aggregating to 4 x 2 X 1 cm.
SECTIONS: 81—83 entirely submitted.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates glial fibrillogenesis by the

neoplastic cells. There are non—atypical neuronal elements (positive with
synaptophysin, chromogranin, and NeuN) focally, in what appears to be cerebral
cortex. With the MIB—l there is a proliferation index of about 12% throughout

the tumor.
SPECIAL STAIN: There is no reticulin deposition within the neoplasm.

e consistent with a high histological grade astrocytic

The findings er
and are interpreted as

neoplasm. The neuronal cells do not appear neoplastic,
trapped native neurons.

ECO—9(5):
191.3 191.3

    

Histo Data
Part A: Brain, Right parietal, biopsy

 

 

Page

          

Taken: Received: F
Stain/cnt Block Or ere Comment

    

 

Retic x l
Synap—DA x 1

m x 1 1 —
Part B: ‘ ' 'etal tumor, e ' ' '
Taken: W Received: W
Stain/cut Block Ordered Comment
H/E x l l
mGFAP-DA x l 2
H/E x 1 2
MIBleA x l 2
ChromA—DA x 1 3 -also. Thank you.
mGFAP—DA x l 3
H/E x 1 3
NFZFll x l 3
3
3

*** End of Report ***

 

 

 

