 

. ' Item-234509

 

SURGICAL. PATHOLOGY REPORT

   

 

an eels

A. RIGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR (CRANIOTOMT FOR RESECTION):
- Glioblastoma multiforme, giant cell variant, WHO grade IV

B. RIGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR, NCI PROTOCOL:
- Cellular tumor with approximately 30% tumor necrosis (25% in one piece and 5%
in another piece)

é? RIGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR, NC] PROTOCOL:
" Cellular tumor with less than 5% tumor necrosis in one piece

D. RIGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR, NCI PROTOCOL:
- Cellular tumor, no tumor necrosis identified

CleGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR, NCI PROTOCOL:
’ - Cellular tumor with approximately 20% tumor necrosis in one piece

F. RIGHT TEMPORAL TUMOR, NCI PROTOCOL: .
- Cellular tumor with approximately 5% tumor necrosis in one piece

COMMENT: lmmunostain for MGMT is considered to toe-negative (less than 1% tumor
cells positive). Tumor cells are diffusely and strongly positive for PTEN and MAPK.
Laminin beta-1 is markedly increased while laminin beta 2 is moderately increased (see
NOTE).

NOTE:

A low percentage of tumor cells i20% and Iessi lrnmunostalnlng for MGMT has been reported to be associated with a retattve
response to Ternodar Hence, the less than 1% result in this case may suggest a likelihood of
being responsive to Ternodar. '
Presence of activated (phosphorylated) p42144 mitogen-actlvated prot ' ma multiforrrte has been
shown to be associated with a relative resistance to radiation therapy

Hence. a high percentage of tumor cells Immunoreactive to pMAPK antibody (atthough a cut-off point has notpeen well‘establlshed
yet at the moment) in this case may suggest the possibility of a relative resistance to radiation therapy.

Retained ex resslon of PTEN was found to be associated with a more favorable prognosis in patients with high grade gliornas
ence. retained expression of PTEN in this case may suggest the possibility of a
relatively favorable prognosis.

Recent studies have shown an adverse prognostic signiﬁcance of increased Iaminin — decreased laminin (32
(laminin-Q) expression predicting a worse survival of patients with hi h rade gllomas al: Association between
lamintn—a and glial tumor grade, recurrence. and patient survival. e, elevated expression of
Iaminin {£1 and {52 In this tumor may suggest the tumor aggressiveness intermediate between the 131 (or normatmpz (or normal)
(the most t'avorabte prognosis) and tBllth (the least favorable prognosis).

  

However, the use ofthese tests In guiding therapy has limitations. Review of the relevant literature and clinical correlation is
advised. These test results do not obligate or preclude use of the relevant therapeutic agents.

 

 

