 

 

 

 

M UUID:BF101C5C-6ASF-4EEE-ABF3-BA9F2
TCGA-A4-A5XZ-01A-PR 13155“

IlulmllImmlmlllilllllilmllllll'l‘lﬁl‘l’ﬁliltad
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIllllllllllllllllIIIIIllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHI”m

Sex: FemaF
D. 0.8..
MRN #1

I

I

I

Ref Phys“. L

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 

 

Collected:
Received:
Reported: I _ I > _. V.” ”5:;

SURGICAL PA HOLOGY REPORT

  
 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:

Right kidney, nephrectomy: .thp ”CD 9 3

TumOr Characteristics:

. Histologictypa: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, see comment. ( F9 3 - it a“
. Tumor site; Right kidney. / Y .a
\

. Tumor focality: Unifocal. .
.. Tumor size: 8.6 x 8.6 x 8.3 cm.

. Macroscopic extent of tumon Conﬁnedtd kidney. ‘ " ._ * cé (7
. Microscopicextent of tumon Conﬁnedtokidney. S b “ , H65 4.
. Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 314.

(94) 6

WI:

Lymphovascular space invasion: Not- identiﬁed.
Sarcomatoid features: Not identified.
Surgicat Margin Status:

1. Margins uninvolved by carcinoma: Inked surface, ureter, vasculature.
2. Margins involved by carcinoma: None.

Lymph Node Status:
No lymph noded present.

Other-

ppﬂmmbuwa

[lo]: '3:

'l. pTNM stage: pT2aNx.

« Electronic Signature:

COMMENTS:
Appropriately controlled immunohistochemical stains performed on block #3 show the following results:

Cytokeratin 7: Positive in tumor.
0068'. Positive in foamy macrophages present in many papillary cores.

These ﬁndings along with the morphologic appearance are consistent with a papillary renal cellcarcinoma.

 

CLINICAL INFORMATION
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: NONE GIVEN
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

.w-

SPECIMENS:
Right kidney
SPECIMEN DATA
GROSS DESCRIP‘WW' . _
Container is labeier 1 right kidney. Received in formalin is a 613.5 gram nephrectomy specimen with a marked amolmt of attached yellow

 

 

 

 

 

 

lobular fat. The kidney is 12.6 x 11.1 x 7.7 cm. The renal capsule Is gray-tan. disrupted superiorly in a 4.5 cm in greatest dimensions focus. At the hilum,
bulging from the capsulethare is a 8.6 x 8.5 x 8.3 cm soﬁ, encapsulated mass. A portion of this capsule has been previously inked in blue and partially
incised to collect Genomics research tissues: these Genomic: tissues are received in yellow. greed and teal tissue cassettes. all labeled with the
patients name and ' and. reSpeob‘vely. Adjacent to the encapsulated mass at the hilum.
m is an seamed 5.7 cm rong segment of uretertnar l: up Lu 0.3 cm in greatest org-rater. The renal artery and vein segments at the margin are short,
any u: z: 2 I- 7? tong. are patent. and'unremarkable for tumor. Upon sectioning. the mass is well deﬁned from the surrounding normal renal
mﬁa C'- :.:. sedjon the mass 5 set“. yeffmvvtan. necrotic and hemorrhagic. The mass does not involve the renal pelvis, The normal renal

er_~— . _~J

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 

parenchyma is tan to pink with an ill deﬁned corticomedullary junction. The cortev raw-rams ‘1 7 cm thick‘ The attached fat is unremarkable; No adrenal
gland is identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: A‘l—renal vein, arteries, and ureter at the
margins: AZ—disrupted portion of superior renal capsule: A3 and Art—mass to capsule; A5-A7-—mass to renal pelvis; Ali—mass to normal renal
parenohyma.

wi “—l—

3/ l3

   
  

No

 

