Rel. Source:

 

Clinical Dia nosis & Histor :
ﬁn righi renal masslrenal vein thrombus.

Sgecimens Submitted: .
1: Right kidney and paraceval lymph nodes . Nephrectomy
2: Falciform ligament . Excision

 

 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Dale of Receipt:
Date ofRepon:
Amount ﬂ:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

.TCGA-BP—4973

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

Right kidney and paraoaval lymph nodes , Nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) lype

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade lllllV

Tumor Size: .
Greatest diameter is 9 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Involves renal sinus rat

Renal Vein invasion:
Identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor ‘
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Chronic inlersiiliai inflammation

Adrenal Gland:
Not involved

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carclnomaionoooyloma:

stb Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s) or vena cava below the diaphragm

2. Falcllorrn ligament , Exclsion;
Benign ﬁbre-adipose tissue, no tumor seen.

 

Page 1 of 3

   

 

 

 

lA‘I‘l’EST THAT THE ABOVE DEAGNOSES IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMlNATlON OF THE SLIDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERIAL}, AND THAT lHAVE
REVIEWED AND AFPROVED THIS REPORT.

 

 

 

 

Gross Description:

i). The specimen ls received fresh for frozen aeolian consultation labeled "right kidney and paracsval lymph nodes" and consists of
a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels and perinephrio fat weighing 514 g in total. The kidney measures 24 x 10.5 x 4.5 cm.
The attached ureter measures 12 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter, The attached renal vein measures 0.8 cm in length and
1.4 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is identiﬁed measuring 6 x
1.5 x 1 cm. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a yellow — orange lobulatad mass with focal areas of hemorrhage
measuring 9 x 8.6 x 4 cm, Iocatodln upper pole. The tumor appears to involve the renal capsule however does not reach the
inked margins of resection. it grossly involves the renal vein. Sections through the remainder oithe kidney reveal a pink brown
parenchyma, with a well-deﬁned c‘ortico-medullary function. The cortex measures 1.2 cm and the calycas appear normal. The
specimen is photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

FSC — frozen section control

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins
RVT-tumor with renal vein

T-~ tumor

TC» tumor with capsule

HF -- hilar fat

TSF -— tumor with sinus lat

RP —— renal pelvis representative sections
N -— representative sections kidney
A -» adrenal gland

2). The specimen is received in formalin labeled “falcliorm ligament”. It consists of a fatty soft tissue piece measuring 10 x 6.5 x
3 cm. it is serially sectioned to reveal unremarkable cut surfaces. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
U-undasignalod

Summary of Sections:
Part1: Right kidney and para‘cavai lymph nodes, Naphrectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
at
fsc
hf

n

fl?
rvt

t

to
let
uvm

JMNb—h—A—ﬁ-JJ—A
wmmawaﬁogg

Part 2: Falciform ligament ,Excision

Block Sect. Site P05
2 U 2

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

  

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPOR

lntraopcrative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperatlve consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, CLEAR CELL TYPE-
PERMANENT DiAGNOStS: Same

 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 END 01: REPORT

