 

AJ

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Ovary and fallopian tube. left. salpingo—ooohorectomy:

 

Lymphovascularspaceinvasion not an
Lelt fallopian tube, not identiﬁed.

8. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection:
Metastatic serous adenooardnoma involvi

  
   

e“

. .
2:54.!

 

v‘r _._ . . 3-1:”

C. Omentum. omentectomyc
inﬂammation and mesothelial reaction, negative for neoplasm.
(Mental lymph node. negative for neoplasm, one node examined (0/1).

D Uterus. right ovary and fallopian tube. hysterectomy and salpingeoophorectomr.
Cervix. no patitologic change.
Endometrturn, inactive pattern.
Myornetrium. no pathologic change.

Right ovary. no pathologio change.
Right fallopian tube. no pathologic change.

u

Staging Sheet#3
pTNM staging: T3c. N1,MX(FIGO: IIlC).

 

ELtN'tGAl-EJNF.QR'MIQTI0.1%:

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Pelvic mass.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
SymptomsIRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Left tube and ovary

B. Left pelvic

C. Omentum

D. Utenrs, cervix, and right tube and ovary

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. Received in formalin labeled I and #1 is a 12.7 x 10.5 x 5.4 cm. tan-red mess, with attached adipose tissue. The cut surface oonsists
of a 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm cyst. The remainder of the cut surface consists of tan-pink to white sott tissue. No obvious ovarian parenchyma is identiﬁed. An
obvious fallopian tube' Is not identiﬁed. The Specimen is serially sectioned and a representative section is submitted for frozen section and the frozen
section residue' :5 submitted" In bionic 1 Additional representative sections are submitted as labeled: Blocks 2 and 3 cystic area; blocks 4-10 random

 
 

%§§Eﬁl§%s ". ‘

8. Received in formalin labeled and #2 left pelvio' Is a 2.8 x 1 9 x 0.8 an irregular, tan- -yellovr. ﬁrm tissue. consistent with possible tymph

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, mun

node. The Specimen is bisected andsubmitted in its entirety in two cassettes labeled '

C. Received in formalin labeled and omenlum is a 10.1 x9.2 x21 om aggregate of ﬁbroadipose tissue, consistent with omentum. The
cut surface consists of predominantiy yellow Iooutated adipose tissue with a minimal amount of gray-White ﬁbrous tissue. No lesions are identiﬁed. The
specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in four cassettes labeled

D. Received in formalin labeled I and uterus, cervix, and right tube and ovary is a 92 gm previously opened hysterectomy specimen,
consisting of a 4.1 x 3.5 x26 an uterine body and a 3.6 x 3.1 x 2.5 cm cervix. with attached right ovary and fallopian tube. The serosa is smooth and
tan-pink. The ectocervix is smooth and gray-white with a 0.2 cm stit like as and a minimal amount of attached vaginal mucosa. The endocervical canal
is glistening tan and 2.4 cm in length. The endornetriai cavity is 1.8 cm from some to some and 2.7 cm in length. The endometrium is glistening. tan,
and averages 0.1 cm in thickness. The myomelrium is trabeculated. tanrpink, and ranges from 1.9 an to 2.3 cm in thickness. The 1.9 x0.9 x 0.5 cm
right ovary has a tabulated. tan—yetlovv outer surface. The cutsurface is tan-pink with a 0.3 cm smooth lined cyst and gray-white corpora albicans. The
attached 3.9 x 0.5 cm timbriated right fallopian tube has a tan-pink serosa with two paratubal cysts. averaging 0.2 cm in greatest dimension and a
pinpoint lumen. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted as labeled: Block 1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix. 3
anterior endomyometrium with serosa; 4 and 5 posterior endornyomeln'urn with serosa. bisected; block 6 right ovary and fallopian tube. The blocks are
iabeled .

 

CI

 

 

