 

  

atient am Accession #:
Med. Rec. #1: Dale 0! Procedure:
DOB: Dale 0! Recaarii‘

Gender Dale of Report
Rel. Physician Account ll;

    

Paiieni Address: Biéling Type:
Additional Copy to.

Ref Source'

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
Meiastaiic lefi RCC.

 

§Qecimens Submitted:
1: SP' Kidney, adrenal gland and hilar lymph nodes, leli; Radical nephz‘eciomy
2: SP: Lymph nodes, periaodie. Dissection

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Kidney, adrenal gland and hilar lymph nodes, leii; Radical nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma, high grade. with iubulopapillary lealures (SEF NO'l'E)

Fuhrmon Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade Will}

Turner Size:
Greatest diameier is 8.5 cm.

Local Invasion (for renai conical lyoes}:
involves renal hilai fai

Renal Vein invasion:
Angiolymphalio invasion is idenliﬁed in small vessels and segmental branch of the renal vein.

Surgical? Margins:
Free of tumor
lxionviileoplzislic Kidney,
A PAS slain demonsirnles mild arleiionephrosolerosis.

Adrenai Gland:
involved by mciasiatie carcinoma

Lymph Nodes:
Number of rneiaslatic nodoez7
Number of nodes examinedz'i
which includes nodular lumor deposits suggestive of lymph nodes entirely replaced by tumor.

Staging for renal cell carcinomaiencowloma:
pTSb Tumor grossly exlends inio ihe renal veinie) or vena cava below the oiaphregm

NOTE: Emmuoohisiocliemieai slains show positive staining for racemase while CKT. (2010 and CAEX are negaiiver The dillerential
diagnosis includes a tumor of the distal nephmn, colieciing riucl carcinoma, and iype 2 papillary carcinoma; however renal ceil

 

Page 1 oils

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ setting of hereditary telomvomstosis is also a consideration. Reviewed _

2. SP: Lymph nodes, periaortic; Dissection:

lymph Node Dissection: '
Metastatic renal cell carcinoma similar to past one
Number of lymph nodes examined: to '
Number ol lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 4
Sizo'ol the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 3cm.
Sizes)! the largest metastatic locus : 3 cm.
Exiranodul extension is identiﬁed

 

 

Some of the irnnmnohistochemistry and lSH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the

Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approvad by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has

determined that such clearance or approval is not neceSSary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not he
ligationol or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments oi
5 qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

lATTES‘? THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSiS IS BASED UPON MY PERSGNM, EW‘tP-illﬂ’t‘liGN 0F ENE SLIDES ANDI'OR OTHER itlr‘t'l'ERﬁAL AND FHAT i HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPOR?

 

 

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment
PAS
CAw lX.
RACEMASE
CK?
CD 1 0
WM RECUT
NEG CONT
H&E(US)
RECUT
RECUT
REC UT
RECUT

Gross Description:

i) the specrmen is received lresh labeled ”Left kidney with hitar lymph nodes“ and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal
vessels and perinephde fat weighing 307 g in total. The kidney measures it x 5 x 4.5 cm. “the attached ureter measures 9 cm in
length and 0.3 cm in diameter The attached renal vein measures 12 cm in length and 0,4 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is identiﬁed measuring 5 x 2.3 x 1.4 cm and has a nodular bright yellow
cut surface. as well as a 2.3 cm tan solid iosion. grossly identical to the kidney tumor. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to
reveal a 6.5 x 3.9 x 3.2 cm solid homogonous ﬂeshy loo somewhat nodular rztass located in the upper to mid portion of the kidney.
centered at the cortico modultary junction. Sections through the remainder o! the kidney reveal a pink brown pareoehvms, with a
woll-detlned cortico-medullary junction. The cortex measures 1 cm and the colyces appear normal. Several grossiy positive lymph
nodes are identiﬁed in the hittinr. measuring up to 3 2 cm, with renal vein present in the mid tom {the main renal vein is not
involved grossly). The specimen is photographed. Representative sections are submitted to (both kidney and lymph nodes}
and tor permanent sections.

Summary of sections:
UVlvl ~ ureterol rind vessel margins

 

Page 2 of3

 

 

 

 

 

 

in tumor E
THF» tumor with hilar tat

‘t‘SF -- tumor with sinus fat

TK .. tumor with adjacent kidney

RP -- renal pelvis representative sections

K -- representative sections kidney

AT - adrenal with tumor

A -- adrenal gland

LN ~~ lymph nodes (representative sections only it grossly invotved)

    

2) The speclnienis recelvcdfresh. labo . r new it mp no es an: consists of multiple pink ten ﬁrm lymph nodes ranging

. . y
from 0.3 to 3.0 cm in st dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted. Trssue item 3 largest. grossly positive lymph
nodes is submitted t

Summary oi sections:
LN — lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

Summary oﬁections:
‘éPart 1: SP: Kidney, adrenal gland and tiitar lymph nudes, ieit; Radical nephrootomy

Block I. Sect. Site PCs
A 1
AT 1
K i
LN 3
RP t
i 5
TH!: 2
TK 2
TSF 2
UVM 3

AMMNQ‘i—Awﬂwm

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, periaodic; Dissection

Block Sect. Site P05
1 BLN i
i LLN 1

2 LN 2

 

 

 

Page 3 013 END OF REPORT

 

 

 

