UUID: EBSSOABE4.1364846-BZFC-DIZCDEGBAeSCBac

  

TCGA- TS- A7oz- a1A- PR Date Printed
ll illl'llllllll'llllll'lllll'lllllllllllllllllll 82::
e: 5 Sex: Mal A cess’on No“
In ||||||||||||||I|||||I|||||ll||||||Illllllllllllllllllllll|||| 9 W e liens“:
Copy to:

 

 

l Surglaal Patna/any ﬂana'rt I
muWWA/os

9652/5

Clinical Information Sﬂﬁ, VOW N68 Q35; 4

, . _ . l .
year old male wrth mesothelioma, Radical P eureotomy PDT Q 9 /2 4/, Eb

Final Diagnosis

1, PREVIOUS INClSlON SITE:
Skin and underlying soft tissue with scar and changes of previous biopsy site.

No tumor seen.

2. CHEST WALL FATTY MASS:
Sections of mature adipose tissue.

3. RIB:
Benign lamellar bone with trilinear bone marrow formation present.
No tumor seen

4. POSTERSOR lNTERCOSTAL NODE:
Seclions of lymph node, no tumor seen.

5. PHRENIC NODE:
Tissue and sections of lymph node with presence of malignant mesothelioma.

6. PERIPHRENIC TlSSUE:
Fibroadipose tissue and nodules of soft tissue with presence of malignant mesothelioma.

7. PERlCARDlUMz
Soft tissue with presence of nodules of malignant mesothelloma, some of which may represent lymph nodes replaced by
malignant tumor.

8. STATlON 9:
Sections of nodules with lymphoid margin showing presence of malignant mesothelioma. favor replacement of lymph
node by malignant mesothelioma.

9. STATlON 5:
Sections of lymph node. no tumor seen.

10. STATION 6:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.

ll. STATlON 7:

Name” Page i of 4
EARN:2

Date Printed:

Date Collected :

Date Received:
Ade: years Sex: Male Accession N02!

Loo: Physician:

Copy to:

 
 

 

Pathology

  

 

Surgical

Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.

12. RADlCAL PLEURECTOMY:
Pleura with presence of malignant mesothelloma

13. STATlON 8:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by: MD
(Electronic signature)
Veriﬁcation Data:

Note

The malignant tumor is consistent with epithelioid mesotheiioma,
The calretinin stain stains the epithelial aspect of the lesion. A prominent underlying stromai component is negative for
calretinin and is considered a reactive stromai response rather than a sarcomatoid differentiation

Frozen Section Diagnosis
F81: incision Site: Skin with biopsy site at scar. No definite tumor present.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in 13 parts in a container labeled with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is received fresh for frozen section and designated "previous incision site” and consists of a 5.1 x 1.0 cm
skin ellipse excised to a depth of 2.1 cm. The skin surface displays a linear scar which spans the entire length of the
specimen. Representative sections are submitted for lrozen section and the frozen section control is submitted in cassette
tA. Additional representative sections are submitted in cassette 18,

Specimen #2 is received in formalin and designated “chest wall fatty mass“ and consists of a 40 gram, 7.1 x 6.1 x 4.0 cm
well circumscribed tan yellow nodule. One surface of the specimen is more ragged and slightly flattened, possibly
consistent with the resection margin (inked black). The remaining surfaces are covered by glistening soft tissue.
Sectioning reveals tan yellow coarsely iobulated cut surfaces. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 2A
through 20.

Specimen #3 is received in formalin and designated “rib" and consists of three cylindrical portions of firm and trabeculated
bone ranging from 5.5 to 6.5 cm in length and averaging 1.8 cm in diameter, grossly consistent with portions of rib. Each

Namcz; ' Page 2 of 4
MR

    

Date Printed: ’
Date Collected
Date Received

ge: years Sex: Male Accession Noi
Loo: Physician:
Copy to:

  

 

I Surglcal Patna/0y! 50170,! I

fragment has red brown. rubbery soft tissue attached, grossly consistent with fragments of muscle. No discrete masses
or lesions are identified. A representative section is submitted in cassette 3A following decaloification.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin and designated "posterior intercostal node“ and consists of multiple tan yellow to tan
gray, irregular to nodular fragments of tissue ranging from 0.2 to 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted
in ioto in cassette 4A.

Specimen #5 is received in formaiin and designated “phrenic node“ and consists of two nodular fragments of ten gray,
rubbery tissue measuring 1.5 and 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette 5A.

Specimen #6 is received in formalin and designated "periphrenic tissue" and consists of a 7.5 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm irregular
portion of gray purple to tan yellow, coarsely lobulated tissue which displays multipie tan white, indurated nodules ranging
from 0.6 to 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 6A and 68.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin and designated "pericardium" and consists of multiple ragged and irregular fragments
of gray purple to tan yellow soft tissue ranging from 1.0 to 8.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen displays multiple
tan white, indurated nodules which coalesce on the larger fragment, measuring up to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Representative sections are submitted in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 is received in formalin and designated “station 9" and consists of three tan gray, rubbery and irregular to
slightly nodular fragments of tissue ranging from 1.2 to 2.8 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette 8A.

Specimen #9 is received in formalin and designated "station 5“ and consists of two irregular tan gray, nodular tissue
fragments measuring 0.3 and 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The larger fragment is bisected and the specimen is
submitted entirely in cassette 9A.

Specimen #10 is received in formalin and designated "station 6" and consists of a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm tan gray, nodular
tissue fragment which is submitted in into in cassette 10A.

Specimen #11 is received in formalin and designated "station 7” and consists of two tan gray to tan yellow nodular soft
tissue fragments measuring 0.9 and 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette HA.

Specimen #12 is received in formalin and designated “radical pleurectomy“ and consists of a 17.2 x 16.4 x 7.0 cm
aggregate of multiple irregular gray purple to tan yellow, ragged soft tissue fragments which display an abundant amount
of tan white, indurated nodules ranging from 0.2 to 7.5 cm in greatest dimension. The nodules appear to coalesce in focal
areas. Representative sections are submitted incassettes 12A through 12E.

Specimen #13 is received in formalin and designated "station 8" and consists of a 1.2 cm in greatest dimension tan gray

Name: Page 3 of 4
MRNT

 
 

years Sex: Male

Date l’rinted: ,
Date Collected :
Date Received:
Accession No
Physician:

Copy to:

 

  
  

 

Surgical rafﬂe/ay-

 

Y' 39””)‘1

    

to tan yellow. nodular soft tissue fragment which is submitted in toto in cassette 13A.

Dictated by:

Pathologisﬂs)

Name: ;
MRN: '

Page: 4 of 4

 

   
  

  
   

 

 

 

_,___~——
Prlor Mallgnanw ilistow
Dual/j'anchronous Pvimary Nnt- g.
C351.- is ItircIe): O '

 

