- MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology RepOrt

 

 

 

 

  

Surgical Pathology Report

 

PATIENT: , : ' MRN:
ACCOUNT#: RECEIVED DATE:
DOB: PROCEDURE DATE:
AGE: SEX: I SIGN-OUT DATE:
ATTENDING: LOCATION:
REQUESTING: ROOM:

CONTACT NO: (MD) -
COPIES To: _

DIAGNOSIS: Kidney, right (total nephrectomy): Renal cell carcinoma, Chromophobe cell type, Fuhrman nuclear
grade II of IV, see Note. ix .

-Tumor does not involve surgical margins or ureteral and vascular margins.

-Nephrosc|erosis and moderate atherosclerosis involving the renal artery.

NOJ'E-

Kidney NeLhrectomy Summarﬂable
Macroscopic

Specimen Type: Radical nephrectomy
Laterality:> right

Tumor Size: 2.10m

Focallty: unifocal

Macro Extent of Tumor: tumor limited to kidney
Microscogic

Histologic Type: Chromophobe
Histologic Grade: G2

Extent of Invasion

Primary Tumor(pT):' pT1a
Regional Lymph Nodes(pN):pNX
Distant Metastisis(pM): pMX

:33”

Margins: uninvolved by carcinoma

CLINICAL INFORMATION: Brief Clinical History: pt with right renal mass Specimen Taken For Protocolll
Requester Name- Requester Phone/Pagerz- Admitting Protocol Number:

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: right renal mass Post-Operative Diagnosis: right renal mass Operative

 

Patient Identification

  

File in Section 3: Tissue Examination Page 1

, .
l

 

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Name: ‘ . Accession No.:
MRN: Date of Report:

 

 

Findings: right renal mass
SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: KIDNEY, RIGHT, And Gerota's fascia

GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received is a single container labeled withthe patient’s name,
medical record number, and “right kidney and Gerota’s fascia". The specimen consists of a nephrectomy
weighing 215.1 grams and measuring 12 x 10 x 4 cm in dimension. No palpable mass is present. The surgical
margin is inked in black and bivalved via the antehilar surface to reveal a kidney-colored nodule measuring 2.1
x 1.5 cm at the corticomedullary junction. The tumor is greater than 2 cm from the Closest surgical margin and
is well circumscribed. A 1 x 1 cm piece of nodule and a 1 x 1 cm piece of normal-appearing parench ma is
rocured for UOB. Photographs have been taken of the case. The procurement was performed byh
_. In Surgical Pathology, the specimen is received in a formalin-filled container. The
specimen has been previously bivalved and half Of the tumor has been shelled out. The remainder of the
tumor is located at the corticomedullary junction. Cut sectioning of the tumor demonstrates a brownish, normal-
appearing kidney parenchyma surrounding the nodular tan-brown tumor mass. Deep to the tumor within the
cortex is a clear fluid-filled cortical cyst. On half of the kidney which was previously procured, the tumor
appears to infiltrate into the normal-appearing kidney parenchyma with pushing borders in a very thin white
capsule surrounding the tumor from the normal kidney. The tumor does not appear to involve the hilum and is
0.3 cm from the hilar edge of the kidney, and 0.4 cm from the perinephric fat. The vascular and ureteral
margins are grossly free of tumor. Sectioning through the remainder of the kidney demonstrates brown-tan,
unremarkable kidney parenchyma with no additional nodules are mass is seen. There is no perinephric fat
surrounding the capsule of the kidney deep to the tumor nodule. Sectioning through the hilar fat demonstrates
no‘ lymph node candidates. Analysis of the renal artery demonstrates an area of atherosclerosis which is
approximately 60% occluded. There are no additional nodules or masses seen in the perinephric fat.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:
‘ " I A-C - tumor at Closest surgical margin and hilum
“1 D - vascular and ureteral margin
E - normal kidney parenchyma
F - atherosclerotic blood vessel cross-section

Gross dictated by—

 

Patient Identification Sur ical Patholo y Report

 
  

issue Examination Page 2

 

, .
k

 

 

 

MEDICAL RECORD Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Name: , . . Accession No.:

MRN: ‘ Date of Report: -

 

 

 

Patient Identification Sur ical Patholo y Report

   

: issue Examination Page 3

