Die anosisiDsmncmL-y

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number: W

Diagnosis:
Soft tissue mass, right thigh, re—excision

 

Tumor histologic type: residual pleomorphic sarcoma,
undifferentiated

Tumor microscopic size (largest dimension): 9 mm, present
adjacent to prior biopsy site cyst wall

léA—a , 3
Tumor grade (FNCLCC system): Grade 3 Jdﬁka ,H&_[Zkﬂwqﬁ_7
mos/3
Percent necrosis: not applicable .§fp}¢ﬁ%h Ma; (34941
Lymph nodes: none present in this specimen ﬁbﬂu

Surgical margins: Free of tumor. Closest margin is superior
deep, where tumor is 3 mm from the inked deep margin at the
superior aspect of this specimen.

Clinical History:

The patient is a -year-old female with a clinical diagnosis of
a right thigh sarcoma. The patient received a re—excision of the
right thigh sarcoma.

Gross Description: UWD=¥HMMBMW

Specimen fixation: Formalin mummManmmH ﬁgda
Wm”, IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII “a"

Specimen received. Re_excision mm,,,H,,IIIII/IIIIIIII'I’IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'I’IIIW

II I I I I IIIIIII IIIIIlIIII III

Anatomic site: Right thigh

Dimensions: 13.0 cm in superior to inferior direction, 6.0 cm
in medial to lateral direction, 7.5 cm in anterior to posterior
direction.

Orientation: Short stitch = superior, long stitch = lateral;
Inking: lateral/blue, medial/yellow, superior/red,
inferior/green, deep/black.

Tumor location: N/A

Tumor dimensions: 7.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm; this measurement is the
measurement of the cystic space. There are no cystic contents.
There is dark brown material located along the lining of the
cyst

Estimation of tumor necrosis: Much of the tumor has been
replaced by a large cystic space that contains dark brown
debris.

Growth pattern: Well-circumscribed and encapsulated

Surgical margins: Negative; the cystic space is located 1.6

cm away from the red inked superior margin, directly adjacent to
and 2.0 cm away from the green inked inferior margin, 0.2 cm
away from the yellow inked medial margin, 1.0 cm away from the
black inked deep margin, 1.0 cm away from the blue inked lateral
margin, and 2.0 cm away from the superficial skin.

Other unusual features: None

Tissue submitted for special investigations: The container is
marked .

Digital photograph taken: No
Block Summary:

Inking: lateral/blue, medial/yellow, superior/red,
inferior/green, deep/black

Al - Superior margin
A2 — Inferior margin
A3 — Medial margin
A4 - Deep margin

A5 - Lateral margin
A6-A7 - Superior margin (skin ellipse measured 9.3 x 1.2 cm)
A8—A10 - Additional representative sections of cyst wall

