Results Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor (Order

 

Result Information
Status (Last updated Date/Time)

UUID: AAC76123- -7345- ~4C65- -ABBD- -EEE823AIFE4B
TCGA- UB- ATME E-B

I“lllHlllIHHIIIIIHHIIHIlllllllllllllllllll"llllllRllfldlllllflml
Ill lllll | lllllllllll llllllllllllll II “II “III
III llllllllllllllHllllHlHllIIHIIHIHIHIHmilﬂlllllllllllml',

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

JED—(Ls

9-. QWW‘Q 1“”
Med. Rec.#: 33/:7C)

DOB:

32:: 5:3: 8.11 aim. @2220
33:532. 9,; 9/2 44/;

Service
Receive
Locatio
Client:
Physici

   

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

Liver, segment 7, partial hepatectomy:

1. Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma; see comment.
2 Cavernous hemangioma.

3. Chronic hepatitis B; see comment.

4 Mild steatosis.

COMMENT:
Liver Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, macrotrabecular and
pseudoglandular patterns.
- Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
~ Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion): 3.5 cm.
~ Tumor necrosis: <30%.
— Multifocality: Absent.
- Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 3.5 cm.
~ Vascular invasion: None.
— Hepatic capsule: N0 tumor in capsule.
— Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver.
— Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 1.2 cm from resection
margin (slide A2).
- Non—neoplastic liver: Hepatitis B (see below); mild steatosis.
— Lymph node Status: None present.

‘

— AJCC Stage: pTlNX.

In addition to the hepatocellular carcinoma, there is also a 2 cm
cavernous hemangioma. Sections of the hepatic parenchyma away from the
tumor show intact portal tracts with minimal to mild, predominately
lymphocytic portal inflammation. Scattered ground—glass hepatocytes are
identified (highlighted on a trichrome stain) as well as lobular
inflammation with a few necrotic cells. Mild steatosis is also present.
A trichrome stain shows periportal fibrosis with focally thin septa.
Overall, since these changes are adjacent to a mass lesion the chronic
hepatitis B is scored as grade 1 activity and stage 1 fibrosis.

Chronic Hepatitis Synoptic Comment:

« Type of hepatitis: Hepatitis B virus.

— Necroinflammatory activity (grade 0—4): 1 (see above).
- Fibrosis (stage 0—4): 1 (see above).

— Number of portal zones, >45.

— Steatosis, scale 0—3 with 0 <5%: 1

Specimen(s) Received
AzLiver segment 7 tumor

Clinical History

Relevant Historyzhep B, hcc

The patient is a —year-old man with a history of hepatitis B and HCC.
According to . an MRI performed on showed three hemangiomas
and a solitary segment 7 lesion (2.6 cm), compatible with hepatocellular
carinoma; there was no evidence of cirrhosis. The serum AFP was 1388.8
on Additional history includes cholecystecomy. The patient now
undergoes resection of hepatic segment 7 and a portion of segment 8.

Gross Description

The case is received fresh in one part, labeled with the patient‘s name,
medical record number and "liver segment 7 tumor," and consists of an
unoriented wedge of liver parenchyma (122 g; 10 x 7.5 x 3.6 cm).

Two well—circumscribed, non—encapsulated masses are identified. Mass #1
(3.5 x 2.3 x 2.1 cm) is firm, multinodular, homogenous and white—tan,
and abuts the hepatic capsule. Mass #1 is located within 1.1 cm of the
resection margin (inked blue). Mass #2 (2 x 2 by 2 cm) is spongy, soft,
dark red-purple, and abuts the hepatic capsule. Mass #2 approaches the
resection margin to within 0.2 cm. Mass #2 is located 1.5 cm from mass
#1. The surrounding uninvolved liver parenchyma is soft, dark rust—tan
and homogenous. The capsule is predominately smooth, dark red—purple and
glistening, with an irregular, rough area (less than 40%) at one end.
The specimen was previously partially sectioned prior to receipt in
Pathology, as there are multiple linear slices into the specimen and
into mass #1. A portion of the liver parenchyma including part of Mass
#1 and part of the nearest resection margins is absent. Representative
sections are submitted in the following cassettes:

A1, A2: Mass #1 with closest approach to resection margin.

“

A3: Mass #1 with overlying capsule.

A4: Mass #2 with overlying capsule and closest approach to
resection margin.

A5: Liver parenchyma.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis
made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides.
The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary
interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and
performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

Electronically signed

Authorizing
Name:
Phone:

 

Signed by
Sinned Phone Pager

 

Result History
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Reviewed by List

 

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor(

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below.

Surgical Pathology
(enter 1 per line): liver segment? tumor

 

 

 

 

 

, Authorizl
Pathology and Cytology
Departme

Order Information

Order Date/Time Release Date/Time Start Dale/Time End Date/Time
Release lnformatlon

Released On Released By
Order Details

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class

Once 1 occurrence Routine Unit Collect
Order Questions

Question Answer Comment

-

Specimen (enter 1 per line) - liver segment 7
tumor
hep B, hcc

Lab Collection and Receipt Information
Collect Date Collect Time Collected By Lab Receipt Date Lab Receipt Time

Collection Information
Resulting Aoencv

Order Provider Info
I Office

phone Pager/beeper E-mail

Ordering User -—

Authorizing Provider . -—

Billing Provider ——

Electronically Signed By:
Electronically Authorized By Electronically Ordered By

Acknowledgement Info
For , At - Acknowledged By Acknowledged On

Order Status for: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Parent Status: Completed

Child Orders
(This order does not yet have any children)

Order Requisition _7
Surgical Pathology (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumou

 

M 3/51”) ‘ m

 

 

ting-non, DtSLlcpancv

 

 

Primary forum Site Discrepancy

 

 

 

 

TmPAA Dnrrepancv _//'

Prio allgnam’v History

 

 

    

 

”ALE—“:1

 

 

