    

TWA-"184086

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

Surg1cal Pathology Consultat1on Report
* Amended * .

SPECIMENIS) RE‘CEIVED. _ ' ' ' ‘ ' ._

. Soft— T1ssue-‘ IWSng Resect1on— Right M1dd1e Lobe (Qu1ck Sect1on)”
subearlna1'_T7 _.I , I. I

1nterlobar ST11

I“ "-1obar ST12 I

,Lymph node. 1nterlobar ST11

I,Lymph node' RT low paratracheal ST4R

. Lymph nSdS411INE pulm. l1gament ST9

LUNGS. Iri‘ght-low_e;.1‘o_bé

  
  
 
 
  

‘-

‘m~qanmuSuamIH

DIAGNOS IS

Lung, Wedge resaetlon Ir1ght .midd1S lobe) .. . w
_' a1 Lung tissue with-: patchy 1ntergt1E1 lichron1c 1nflamma"onfand
fibrloSis, usual 1nterst1t1al pneumonia (UIP) pattern -
b} onS lymph nodS with non—necrot1zvng granulomatous 1nﬁl‘
-and focal m1xed duSt_ nodules (0/1) ' . ... 1,

2—- —-_-.7 Lymph InodéS. _rSsect-iOnS II-ST? subcar1na1,=STi_l 1nterlobar
‘lobar, STll 1nter10bar, ST4R rig ht 1Swer paratracheal. ST9

pulmonary l1gament) , - 1
:— -Lymph nSdSS w1th non-necrot1zing granulomatous inflamm

'negétlve for mallgnancy (x6) _
..I— Focal mlxed duet nodules with central nech31s and by

8. Lung, reSection Ir1ght loWSr lobSc.tomy): ' III , _..
a3 Pleomorph1c carc1noma ISquamSuS SS11 car01noma I90%' InquspindlS‘1j9j‘I'
ce11 carcinoma. I10%)]; pTZNo with: - - .1.‘ . TI? IIGIVF III
' I 1} Maximum tumar d1men31on’ 4 Q SmI -
Iii) Vlsceral pleural and vascular 1nvas1on IIIioIt iI-IICISSI _
1-111).Resect1on margins negative fSrI tumorIIC105eSI Siginigls
-nun-,-Stap1ed parenchyma) " :‘. ' -, '
' iv) FiVSI 1ymph_ncdes- (4 lobar,_1 sngSnta11 with-
non~necrotlz1ng granulomas, thativS for malignancy IID/S}

SstatusifcotreotSdL'I

 

 

 

 

 

b) Lung tissue with patchy interstitial chronic inflammation and
fibrosis, UIP pattern {see Comment)

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Lobectomy

Laterality: Right
Tumor Site: RLL
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 3.0x3.o cm
‘stologic Type: Carcinoma with pleomorphic,

iroomatoid, or sarcomatous elements (variant): squamous cell carcinoma
(90%), spindle cell component (10%)
Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated
Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pTz: Tumor with any of the following
features of size or extent: greater than 3 cm in greatest dimension;
involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the
visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis
that extends to the hilar region but does not involve the entire lung

pNo: No regional lymph node

metastasis

. pMX: Cannot be assessed
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from

Closest margin: 18 mm
Specify margin: stapled

parenchymal margin

Direct Extension of Tumor: None identified

venous (Large Vessel) Invasion: ' Absent

Arterial (Large Vessel} Invasion: Absent

Small/Intermediate Blood Vessel Invasion: Absent

Additional Pathologic Findings: Other: interstitial fibrosis, UIP
pattern; numerous non~necrotizing granulomas in lymph.nodes
Neoadjuvant Treatment: unknown

Extension of Tumor: Confined to lung

-_...-—____...__-...._........__..._____............._~~-—_—_.._...—...u___...___....._

Status: corrected

Page: 2 of

6

 

 

 

 

COMMENT

This case was initially signed out as a provisional report on

and has been amended to include results of immunohistochemical
stains. The diagnoses have not changed from the original report.

I

The lymph nodes resected in the case (specimen 1-8) show diffuse
involvement with wellnformed non-necrotizing granulomatous inflammation.
Occasional mixed dust nodules with central hyalinization and focal
central necrosis are also present. Special stains for fungal elements
and acid—fast organisms are negative. There is no evidence of metastatic
carcinoma in any of the lymph nodes examined.

:ctions of the tumor in specimen 8 show predominately moderately
difﬁerentiated squamous cell carcinoma (90%), with a small component
(10%) of a poorly differentiated spindle cell carcinoma that demonstrates
shows multiple mitoses and severe cytologic atypia. There is no
malignant cartilage, bone, or skeletal muscle identified in the spindle
cell component. Immunohistochemistry shows the squamous cell component
of the tumor to be positive for multiple cytokeratins (HMWK,-CK5/6,
AEl/AEB) and p63. The spindled component shOWS weak positive staining
for CKS/G and p63, with very focal positive staining for 6K7. The EGFR
shows strong membranous staining in approximately 90% of both the
moderately differentiated component and the spindled component. Both
components are negative for p53 and TTF—l. The findings are consistent
with a pleomorphic carcinoma composed of predominantly squamous cell
carcinoma (moderately differentiated, 90%) and pleomorphic spindle—cell
carcinoma (poorly differentiated, 10%), pT2N0.

The residual lung parenchyma in both specimen 1 ("wedge resection right
middle lobe") and specimen 8 (“right lower lobe“) shows patchy
interstitial fibrosis that appears accentuated in a subpleural
distribution, with focal areas of architectural remodeling and cyst
formation (microscopic honeycomb change). There is mild chronic .
interstitial inflammation associated with areas of fibrosis. Fibroblastic
foci are readily identified. The blood vessels show focal fibrointimal
thickening, likely secondary to the background inflammatory process, but
no diagnostic evidence of active vasculitis. Granulomas are noted within
an intraparenchymal lymph node (specimen 1), but are not identified in
the lung parenchyma itself.

ine overall findings in the lung tissue are in keeping with pulmonary

Status: corrected Page: 3 of 6

 

 
 

 

fibrosis of UIP pattern. However, the simultaneous presence of numerous
non-necrotizing granulomas within the lymph nodes is not typical of UIP,
and may indicate a second superimposed process, the differential
diagnosis of which is broad but which could include infections, drug
reactions, and sarcoidosis. Correlation with clinical and microbiologic

findings is recommended.
ROSS DESCRIPTION
The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as" wedge

resection right middle lobe" consists of a wedge of lung with_2 staple
line measuring 6.9 x 4 x 1.5 cm. A black nodule, 0.8 cm from the staple
line resection margin, measures 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The remaining
parenchyma is rubbery and firm. Intraoperative consultation performed on
a frozen by quick section. Representative sections submitted.

1A frozen section

1B staple line margin

1C remaining back nodule/node
lD—lF' lung

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "subcarinal
3T7“.

Number of gray—tan tissue pieces: 10

Measurements: 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm to 2.7 x 1.7 x 1 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto.

2A 1 node bisected

28 one node bisected

2C 5 nodes

2D one node bisected

2E one node quadrisected

2F one node trisected

3. The Specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "interlobar ST
11". .
One piece of gray—tan tissue measuring 3 x 1.7 x 1.1 cm.
3A—3C trisected and submitted in toto

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "lobar STlZ".

Status: corrected Page: 4 of 6

 

 

 

 

Number of gray—black tissue pieces: 4

Measurements: 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm to 232 x 1.5 x 1.2cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto.

4A 3 nodes

4B—4C one node trisected

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "interlobar
STll”.

One piece of gray— tan tissue measuring 1. 3 x 0. 6 x 0. Gem.

SA node bisected and submitted in toto

The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right low
iratracheal ST4R".
One piece of tan black tissue measuring 1. 4 x 1. 2 x 0 Gem.
SA node bisected and submitted in toto

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "inferior
pulmonary ligaments ST9".

One piece of tan black tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm.

7A node bisected and submitted in toto

8. The Specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right lower
lobe”. .

Resection specimen: right lower lobe lung lobectomy measuring 10.5 x 10
X 6 cm. - .

Pleural surface: intact, smooth cobblestone/shows some surface
adhesions, has an area of puckering measuring 1.7 x 1.2 cm.

Tumour:

Number of tumours: 1

Measurements: 4.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm.

Location: peripheral
Distance from resection margins: 2 cm from the brOnchial resection

margin; 1.8 cm from the closest stapled parenchymal resection margin.
Descriptive characteristics: White in colour, specks of black spots;
solid consistency; poorly delineated
Lung parenchyma: Partly congested
Other lesions: No
Lymph Nodes: Multiple peribronchial lymph nodes are identified ranging
from 0.3 to 1.7 x 0.9 x 0.8 cm in greatest dimension.

:ozen Section: No
lissue Banking: Multiple pieces of tumor

Status: corrected Page: 5 of 6

 

 

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
8A bronchial resection margin

8B staple line margin

8C~8H.tumor

BI lung parenchyma away from tumor

8J-8K 1 lobar node bisected in each cassette

8L 1 segmental node bisected

am one lobar node bisected

8N one lobar node bisected

1a nymph node with non— necrotizing granulomatous inflammation.
Slides received at 10.18 am; reported 10. 20 am.

Status: corrected

Page :

6 of 6

 

