 

 

 

UUID:E567237E-8A43~45E8-A81CC-8AA7C62029E6
TCGA- GD- ASOQ- dacted

IIIIIIIIllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIIIIIII
II IIIIIIIIIIIIII || |I|| ||||||||||||||||||||||||I|||| ||||||| III
II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIllIIII

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Ureter, left distal, biopsy for frozen section diagnosis:
Negative for carcinoma.
Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

B. Ureter, right distal, biopsy for frozen section diagnosis:
Negative for carcinoma.
Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

C. Urinary bladder, cystoprostatectomy:
Tumor histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma
Variant histology (%): None
Tumor size: greatest dimension: 6.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 3 x 2.5 cm
Grade (WHO . ): High
Tumor conﬁguration: Papillary and nodular/infiltrative
Associated epithelial lesions: Urothelial carcinoma in situ
Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades the peri—vesicle soft tissue

Lymph—vascular invasion: Yes {C I) “a 3

Margins: Negative CW Mai/11%;], Na; VIM/3
Urethral: Negative 5%“ bladdw N“ c. 47, 6;
Ureteral. Negative ﬂ
Paravesical soft tissue: Negative 01/57,).
Other (specify): Periprostatic soft tissue

Additional pathologic findings: Extensive perineural invasion

Paravesical lymph nodes: None

All lymph nodes: 1/15 (see parts D, E, F, G)

Size of largest lymph node metastasis: 10 mm
Extranodal extension (location): No

'Pathologic stage( ,: pT4a pN1 ngNot applicable

Prostate, cystoprostatectomy: ..

Urothelial carcinoma involving prostatic urethra and invading prostatic
stroma (slide' C13 and C19).
Extensive perineural (slide C11, C12 etc) and lymphovascular invasion (022)

D. Lymph nodes, left inferior pelvic, excision:
One out of two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (1/2).
Dimension of largest lymph node metastasis, 10 mm (slide DZ).

E. Lymph node. left superior pelvic, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1 ).

F. Lymph nodes, right inferior pelvic, excision:

 

Eight lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/8).

G. Lymph nodes, right superior pelvic, excision:
Four lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4).

H. Appendix, appendectomy:
No pathologic change.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Ureter, left (stitch distal):
Negative for carcinoma.
F/S TAT: 11 mins.

FSB: Ureter, right (stitch distal):
Negative for carcinoma.
F/S TAT: 10 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are eight containers each labeled with the patient name.

Part A is received fresh for frozen section diagnosissand is additionally

labeled "left ureter stitch distal." The specimen consists of a segment of
ureter having a length of 0.3 cm and a diameter of 0.5 cm. The residual frozen
section tissue is entirely submitted in cassette A for permanent sections.

Part B is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis‘and is additionally
labeled "right ureter stitch distal." The specimen consists of a segment of
ureter having a length of 0.5 cm and a diameter of 0.8 cm. The specimen is
bisected at the time of frozen section diagnosis. The residual frozen section
tissue is entirely submitted in cassette B for permanent sections.

Part C is received fresh for and is additionally labeled
:bladderamng prostate." The specimen consists of a cystoprostatectomy specimen,
having overall dimensions of 8.5 x 8 x 7.5 cm. The specimen consists of a 4.5 x
4 x 3.5 cm bladder with attached bilateral ureters (right ureter length 4 cm and
left ureter length 3 cm) and a 4.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm prostate with attached

bilateral seminal vesicles and vas deferens. The prostate is inked as follows:
right side yellow, left side black, and posterior red. Anteriorly, the

bladder is inked black. The urethral margin is shaved. The specimen is opened
anteriorly to reveal a 6.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm partially exophytic and partially

ulcerated pink-tan mass involving the inferior half of the bladder
circumferentially. The dome of the bladder appears uninvolved. The mass
appears to invade into the muscularis propria and comes to within 0.2 cm of the

 

 

 

 

inked anterior (closest) soft tissue margin. Additionally, the mass appears to
invade the prostate and comes to within 1.2 cm of the urethral margin. The
uninvolved bladder mucosa is pink-tan, wrinkled and somewhat edematous. After
amputating the prostate from the bladder and removing the bilateral seminal
vesicles and vas deferens. the prostate weighs 49 Q. There is a moderate amount
of perivesicular fat, and after the use of a chemical clearing agent, one tan

lymph node is identified, having dimensions of 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

01 urethral margin;

02 uninvolved bladder mucosa;

C3 mass to nearest soft tissue margin (anterior);

04-6 mass;

C7 mass to uninvolved;

08-13 right posterior prostate, submitted from apex to base;

014-19 left posterior prostate, submitted from apex to base;

020-21 right anterior prostate, submitted from apex to base(from mid
portion of prostate gland);

022,23 left anterior prostate, submitted from apex to base (from mid
portion of prostate gland);

C24 right seminal vesicle;

025 left seminal vesicle;

026 one whole lymph node.

Part D is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "left inferior pelvic
lymph nodes." The specimen Consists of a single portion of fibroadipose tissue,
having dimensions 7 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm. After the use of a chemical clearing agent,
two tan lymph nodes are identified, having dimensions 3 x 1.6 x 0.8 cm and 0.8 x
0.6 x 0.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

D1-2 one lymph node bisected;

DS one whole lymph node.

Part E is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "left superior pelvic
lymph node." The specimen consists of a single portion of fibroadipose tissue,
having dimensions 2.8 x 1 x 0.8 cm. After the use of a chemical clearing agent,
a single tan lymph node is identiﬁed, having a greatest dimension of 1.5 cm.
The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassettes E1-E2 (one lymph
node bisected).

Part F is received in formalin and is additionally labeled, "left inferior pelvic
lymph nodes." The specimen consists of a single portion of fibroadipose tissue,
having dimensions 4.5 x 3 x 1.5 cm. After the use of a chemical clearing agent,
two tan lymph nodes are identified, having greatest dimensions of 3 and 2.8 cm.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

F1-3 one lymph node trisected;

F4-6 one lymph node trisected.

Part G is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "right superior
pelvic lymph nodes." The specimen consists of a single portion of ﬁbroadipose
tissue, having dimensions 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. After the use of a chemical
clearing agent, three lymph nodes are identified, with greatest dimensions
ranging from 0.5 to 1.2 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
G1 two whole lymph nodes;
02 one lymph node bisected.

Part H is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "appendix." The
specimen consists of an appendix having a length of 7 cm and an external
diameter ranging from 0.4 cm distally to 0.6 cm proximally. The proximal
surgical margin is received opened. The serosal surface of the appendix is
pink-tan, smooth and glistening. There is no evidence of perforation or exudate
formation. The attached mesoappendix has dimensions 2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The
appendiceal wall thickness is 0.2 cm throughout. The lumen contains scant fecal
material. A fecalith is not present. The mucosa is tan. No masses are
identified. The inter luminal diameter ranges from 0.3 cm to pinpoint.

Standard sections are submitted in cassette H.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
ﬁndings. .

END OF REPORT

 

 

 

 

