—- CGA_A3_33.,2
Collected Date & Time-

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
57 Surgical Pathology COPY TO:
COPY TO:

IO Consultation
”Grossli consistent with renal cell carcinoma, no FS"F

Pre—Op Diagnosis

Left renal mass

Post-Op Diagnosis

Same as above

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Received in a single container labeled ____u___11!'5*“=

kidney" is a 1190 gram previously partially sectioned left
nephrectomy specimen surrounded by a large amount of perinephric
adipose tissue and faced anteriorly by a moderate amount of Gerota‘s
fascia. The specimen, on reconstruction, as. received measures 28. 8 x
14 6 X 10. W cm. The margins of resection include 2.1 cm of grossly
patent renal artery and 2. 6 cm of grossly patent renal vein with
multiple staple lines and plastic surgical clips in place. In
addition, there is 9.6 cm of grossly patent ureter. Within the
superior medial aspect of the adipose tissue is a 7.1 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm
grossly unremarkable recognizable adrenal gland. The capsule strips
with slight difficulty to reveal an organ measuring overall 12.7 x
8.0 x 7.8 cm. There is a lobulated smooth tan—brown cortex. Much of
the lateral aspect of the lower pole extending into the central
portion is occupied by a 6.9 x 5.5 x 5.3 cm well—defined thinly
encapsulated gray—tan to yellow lesion with a markedly hyalinized cut
surface showing marginal areas of lobulated yellow fleshy tissue. In
addition, there are several areas of hemorrhage. This lesion extends
beyond the plane of the renal parenchyma into the surrounding adipose
tisbue where it is seen at its nearest point within 0.2 cm of the
fatty margin. In one area the lesion grossly appears to break through
the capsule into the surrounding adipose tissue: however, this
appears as a single lobulation measuring 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is received after operative consult, which is
reported as " rossly consistent with renal cell carcinOma, no F8" by
Dr. H The remaining renal parenchyma is compressed by the
lesion with a few vascular structures markedly compressed in the area
of the capsule. The cortex is up to 0. 6 cm and homogeneous tan- brown.
The corticomedullary junctioni is well defined. The medulla is
slightly hyalinized tan— —gray to brown. The calyces and pelvis are
lined by smooth tan— white mucosa extending into the ureter.
Representative sections are submitted labeled as follows: A ~
vascular and ureteral margins; B-G - lesion and surrounding tissue; H
— random uninvolved parenchyma; I — adrenal gland. Also received in
the same container are three tissue cassettes each labeled

 

 

Page 1 OH

H

 

m
Microscopic Description:
Slides are reviewed labeled
Final Diagnosis
Left kidney:
ERenal cell ca.rcinoma, .clear cell -type.
Tumor site: Neoplasm is noted in the lateral aspect of the lower pole
extending into the central
portion of the kidney.
Tumor size: 6. .9 x 5. 5 x 5. 3 cm. .i
Macroscopic extent of tumor. Neoplasm appears to be primarily limited
to the kidney though a
microscopic focus of neoplasm is present in the perinephric adipose
tissue.
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade‘Q/4. y
Lymphovascular space invasion: No
Transcapsular invasion: Yes.
Renal vein invasion: No.
Vena caval invasion: Not resected.
Adrenal gland: Benign adrenal gland tissue without evidence of
metastatic disease.
Surgical margin status:
Soft tissue margins: Negative.
Ureteral margin: Negative.
Vascular margins: Negative.
other:
Chronic pyelonephritis.
Intra—operative consultation above confirmed on permanent sections.

 

Stage: pT3NXMX. PAS 9 sec—A
CPT: 88307 x 2, 88329
Comments

 

The pathologic staging T3 is based on the presence of a Ezr-
of neoplasm in theipe "’ J Li: '
This test has been finalized at the _Campus.
#

—Il— "'

 

 

