UUID:EOC49041-AA66-4355-9312-FADBEZDCBSQS
TCGA-A7-A4SE—91A-PR Redacted

ii!ﬁlil'ﬁ'lﬁ'l'l'l'iiﬂFilif'ﬂ'ﬁlifiif}?iﬁiil'iﬁh'ﬁ'l'a'lii

Final Surgical Pathology Report
Procedure:

Diagnosis
A. Breast, left, segmental mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma,
grade 3, size 2.8 cm in greatest dimension; negative margins of
excision.
Sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).
. Sentinel lymph node #2, biopsy: One negative lymph node (0/1).
. Breast, medial to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative for
malignancy or atypia.
E. Breast, inferior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.
F. Breast, posterior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Skeletal
muscle: negative for malignancy or atypia.
G. Breast, lateral to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.
H. Breast, superior to left segmental mastectomy, biopsy: Negative
for malignancy or atypia.

00m

Microscopic Description:

Invasive Carcinoma:
Histologic type: Ductal J './
Histologic grade: 3 [CA a 5

Overall grade: 9/9
Architectural score: 3 KWWI; krill/”WW7 MWS

Nuclear score: 3 ffvﬁ/
Mitotic score: 3 A} ‘3
Greatest dimension (pT): 2.8 cm ji‘ko ; £2” ’— W; 652:4
Specimen margins: Negative /

Vessel invasion: Not identified ’LJ
CallelCathn. Present /0yéV%Ag»
Ductal carcinoma in situ:

Histologic pattern: Solid

Nuclear grade: 3

Central Necrosis: Present

% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): 1%

Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): Absent

Specimen margins: Negative

Calcification: Negative

Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes, with ductal
hyperplasia of usual type, a minute fibroadenoma, and apocrine
metaplasia, with calcification.

Comments: Sentinel lymph nodes negative, confirmed by negative
cytokeratin immunostaining of blocks BFSl and CF82. Cytokeratin
staining was also performed on one block from part B, to exclude
involvement by carcinoma. Prior biopsy site identified. Extensive
central tumor necrosis is present.

Prognostic markers: See core biopsy report,
4x8, 14x2, 15x2, 20x3

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not
been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

Specimen

A.
B.
C.

D.
E.
F.
G
H

Left Breast

Left axillary sentinel lymph node #1, hot, blue,

Left axillary sentinel lymph node #2, not hot, not blue, but
palpable ‘

Medial to segmental mastectomy left breast

Inferior to segmental mastectomy left breast

Posterior to segmental mastectomy left breast

Lateral to segmental mastectomy left breast

Superior to segmental mastectomy left breast

Clinical Information
Left breast cancer

Intraoperative Consultation
B) Left axillary sentinel node #1: Two negative lymph nodes (0/2).

C) Left axillary sentinel node #2, biopsy: One negative lymph node
(0/1).

Gross Description

A.

Received unfixed for tissue procurement, labeled left breast
segmental mastectomy single long lateral, double long anterior, is
a 100 gram breast segmental excision that is 9 cm from anterior to
posterior, 7.5 cm medial to lateral, and 3 cm from superior to
inferior. The superior surface is inked black, and a section is
submitted for tissue procurement as requested. An additional
section of uninvolved fatty tissue is submitted from the posterior
aspect, for procurement. Additional sections after fixation. The
superior surface is inked black, medial green, lateral yellow,
inferior blue. There is a tan, firm, lobulated mass lesion in the
mid~portion of the specimen, 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm. This is 3 mm from
the green-inked medial margin (closest margin). All other margins
are grossly greater than 1 cm from the mass. Representative
sections: 1 Anterior margin, 2 adjacent section with margin, 3/4/5
contiguous tumor, possible biopsy cavity in 5, 6/7/8 contiguous,
9—10 random medial and lateral, possible close margin, 11—14
additional posterior sections, with last section = posterior
margin.

Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled left axillary
sentinel node #1, are 2 adjacent and attached lymph nodes, 0.9 cm
in greatest dimension each, bisected and entirely submitted in
blocks B1 and 82.

Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled left axillary
sentinel node.#2, is a single lymph node, 1.4 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm,
bisected and entirely submitted in 2 blocks.

Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "medial
to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 5.2 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm yellow
lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture designating the
new medial border. The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with minimal
fibrous tissue present. No discrete residual tumor is grossly
identified. The specimen is entirely submitted labeled 1 through
10.

Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"inferior to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 2.7 x 2.2
cm yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture
designating new inferior border. The surface is inked and the
specimen is sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with
minimal fibrous tissue present. No residual tumor is grossly
identified. The specimen is entirely submitted labeled 1 through 9.

F. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"posterior to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 3.2 x 2.5 x
1.0 cm yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which is partially
covered with skeletal muscle. There is a suture designating the new
posterior margin. The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show a yellow lobular fatty cut surface with scanty
fibrous tissue present. The specimen is entirely submitted in 5
cassettes.

G. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled "lateral
to segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm yellow
lobular fatty tissue fragment. There is a suture designating the
new lateral border. The surface is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with minimal
fibrous tissue present. No residual tumor is grossly identified.
The specimen is entirely submitted in 9 cassettes.

H. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"superior segmental mastectomy left breast "is a 4.3 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm
yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which has a suture designating
the new superior border. This is inked and the specimen is
sectioned to show yellow lobular fatty cut surface with scanty
fibrous tissue present. The specimen is entirely submitted in 4
cassettes.

 

