UUID:67898885-26AB-4F99-9C3i)-634DBA2FA058
Q -PR Redacted

InIiilliliiililllililiiiﬁlrrliriiIlluirrlrur
IllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllillllllllllllll
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

____,.__——
Surgical Patholog |OrdcrlDz Final Resultsl
Surgical Pathology Final
CASE NUMBER r4343 ,3 .
DIAGNOSIS: Adrenal gland. left. tumor. resection: Pheochromocytoma. ”0
see note. HQ? .
, oo 0:
NOTE: Tumor cells are strongly positive for synaptophysin and 341?, W N03 2
chromogranin. Areas of intratumoralnecro-hemorrhage and fibrosis are 474,0] '
seen.

Qytb 8/? )l :5
Immunopercxidase and in-situ hybridization tests performed here and used

for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the .They have not been
cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA

. has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.

This laboratory 'is' certifiedunderstheClinicaLLébOraiOry improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualiﬁed to perforrn"lii§ﬁ‘complexity -
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL lNFORMATiON'. Allocate Order to Protocol: Brief
Clinical History: Left

adrenal gland tumor. suspected pheo chromocytoma

based on serum and

urine cathecholamines Smcimen Taken For Protocol:

01 -Yes

PROCEDURE: Fire-Operative Diagnosis: Left adrenal gland tumor,
Post-Operative
Diagnosis: Left adrenal gland tumor. Operative
Findings: Left adrenal
glandtumor;

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND. LEFT

GROSS DESCRiPTION: Received fresh in a container labeled with the
patient's name. medical record number. and further speciﬁed as "left
adrena". The specimen consists of an adrenal gland weighing 164.7
grams. measuring overall 8.6 x 7.5 x 5.0 cm. There is a small defect on
the surface measuring 3 cm. The specimen is inked in black. The
specimen is opened on the Opposite of defect to reveal a hollow mass
with friable tissue in the middle. The cut surface has an outer rim of
adrenal gland. beneath which is a tan-pink smooth tissue. Up to 4 x 3 x

2 cm of the firm pink—tan tissue is procured for and .

Lab. In Surgical Pathology. the specimen received matches the
above description. Small sections are made to open the mass and fix
overnight. Representative sections are made and submitted in white
cassettes labeled for permanent Drocessino. The
procurement was performed by _
Additional sections from the tumor are made. and they are submitted in
white cassettes labeled for permanent processing.

('nnfidcni'iul lenient irii‘orrrartim. iiuziutrxorlzcti disclosure is pnxixiiritvrl by rho Fed-oral i’r‘n sic}- Act oil“ i975.

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

 

l A, , ‘ Surgical Patholw _ : . _ Final Residtg‘
Gross description dictated by
i

No consultants *

 

the Federal Privacy Act of UTE-l.

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

(militant-.Ai Patient inibrmntim. iliimudlcrizud (listtinsurc is prohibited by

 

Requested By:

