 

 

 

uurnfggﬁargizzscaé5313:5335-37F11ceag752a c e ' -ZGD'C>"3
lllllIlllIllllllllllllllllalllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllc d WIW “Adv
lllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllIHIllllllllllllllllllllll W 68 967/43
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllll||||l WW’WW’
COLLECTED: RECEIVED: ‘l ‘ W's/L3

8.11 984.04, . Mas
CLINICAL DATA: Tongue carcinoma. Z

d6 I 1' 9
GROSS DESCRIPTION: A) Received fresh designated "base of the tongue" is a 3.2 x 2.5 x 0.5 9104/1 4/15
cm exophytic, pedunculated soft hemorrhagic mass and underlying mucosa. The specimen has
been oriented by the surgeon. The specimen is inked as follows: medial blue, posterior orange,
anterior red, lateral green, and deep black. A 0.5 cm in diameter portion of tissue is obtained for
research purposes and this area is inked yellow. The specimen is longitudinally sectioned to
reveal a white-tan, ﬁrm, ill deﬁned mass that appears to extend to the deep black and red inked
margins, closely approaches medial and lateral margins and it is located at least 1 cm from the
orange inked margin. Representative sections submitted as follows: AF 81 - central portion of the
lesion submitted for frozen section then thawed and submitted for permanent section; A2, A3 -
central portion of mass longitudinally sectioned; A4 -anterior medial margin perpendicularly
sectioned; A5 - posterior medial margin perpendicularly sectioned; A6 - anterior lateral margin
perpendicularly sectioned; A7-A8 - posterior lateral margin perpendicularly sectioned. B)
Received fresh designated "medial margin" is a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm portion of tissue, which is
submitted for frozen section, then thawed and resubmitted in cassette BFS l. C) No specimen is
received. D) Received fresh designated " anterior lateral margin" is a 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm portion
of tissue that is partially covered by mucosa. The specimen has been oriented by the surgeon:
deep margin inked black, the out side yellow, and ﬁ‘ee border blue. The specimen is entirely
submitted for frozen section, then thawed and resubmitted in cassette DFS l. E) Received fresh
designated " anterior medial margin" is a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm portion of tissue that is partially
covered by mucosa. The true deep margin is inked black, the cut surface yellow, and tree border
blue. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section, then thawed and resubmitted in
cassette EFSl. F) Received in formalin designated "right level [IA and level III" is a 7 cm x 3 x
2.5 cm specimen that has been oriented by the surgeon with a double long stitch designated
"level IIA superior, single long stitch designated IIA inferior and double short stitch designated
level III. The specimen is equally divided in three portions and bluntly dissected to reveal a 2.5
cm in diameter grossly positive lymph node predominantly in level IIA inferior but also
involving level 111. Additional lymph nodes are identiﬁed. Representative sections submitted as
follows: F1-F2 - level IIA superior entirely submitted individual lymph node candidates; F3 -
grossly positive lymph node predominantly level IIA inferior and level 111; F4 - level III entirely
submitted. G) Received in formalin designated "right level IV" is a 4 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm portion of
adipose tissue which is bluntly dissected to reveal few lymph node candidates. The specimen is
entirely submitted in cassettes G1 and G2.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: AF S) Carcinoma fraction of a mm from ink (deep

margin in posterior aspect). , Medial margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed.

DFS) Anterior lateral margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed. Anterior medial margin:
No carcinoma identiﬁed. '

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A) Base of tongue, resection: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, non—
keratinizing, with the following features:

1. Size: 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. 7” W ”(K ’15“me 5W
“(K W $81,171,, ad WM/Wﬁd-
Boa

2. Surgical margins: a. Carcinoma closely approaches deep (black) margin (<0.l mm) and it is
located 0.1 cm from lateral (green) mucosal margin, 0.4 cm from medial (blue) mucosal margin
and >1 cm from posterior (orange) mucosal margin (see separately submitted surgical margins -
parts B, D and E).

3. Focus suspicious for angiolymphatic invasion identiﬁed.

 

4. No perineural invasion identified.
5. Minimum pathological stage: pT2, le MX (AJ CC 6th ed; 2002).

B, D, E) Medial, anterior lateral and anterior medial margins, respectively, biopsies: Squamous
mucosa with no carcinoma identiﬁed.

F) Lymph nodes, right level [IA and III, dissection:

l. Metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed in 1 level IIA inferior/level III lymph node, 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension; no extracapsular extension identiﬁed.

2. Remaining 10 lymph nodes (7 level IIA superior, 2 level IIA inferior and 1 level III) with no
evidence of carcinoma.

G) Lymph nodes, right level IV, dissection: 6 lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma (0/6).

 

 

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

W. 01')

 

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T55): T85 identiﬁer: . TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (interviewer Name on Openclinica): . ' _Completecl Date:
[Diagnosis Information
a Data Element Entry Alternatives Workingﬂstructions
Provide the diagnosis] histologle suhtype[s) dommentcd on
Pathologic Diagnosis Invasive squamous on 11 carcinoma , the initial thalogv report for This C359: if the Ill-“0'03! 301'
1 Provided on Initial mderately—mon- this case Is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology R9130” karat ini zing
. d on the TCGA Case
Histolo 6 features of Provide the histologic features select:
2 the Samgﬁle provided aquariums cell carcinoma , basaloid Quality Control Form completed for this case.
for TCGA. as reﬂected type
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

[Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

J

 

3

 

Provide the reason for
the discrepancy
between the pathology
report and the TCGA
Case Quality Control
Form.

The use at "basaloid type” for head
and neck cancer was not in use back
at the time of this case being

aooessioned.

Provide a reason desorihlng why the dlagnosls on the Initial
pathology report for this case is not conslstent with the
diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.

 

 

 

Name of TSS Reviewing
Pathologist or
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

Provide the name ofthc pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGA.

 

 

I orlmowledge that the above information provided by my institution is (we and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Bioreposittiry Director ‘

 

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution ls true and correct and has been quality counselled. The Amending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been Informed or is aware niche above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

 

Principal investigator 015.3“.-. -

[fate

