 

«uglier
a

\.l IIEIII

DiagnoleDiEEvepancy
_ Primary Tumor Sit: uiwiepancy
MIPM Disney-"Iv

Prior Maiignancv History

Dual/synchronous PH - - -

> Cu: is ltircle):

. Rlviewav lnlliais ’ '

——-

Paiient Name:
Med Rec No:
008:

Gender:
Physician(s):
cc:

   
 

  
 
   
 
 
 

 
 
  

MW
mm

Surgical Pathology Report

Client;
Location:

Pt. Phone no

History/Clinical Dx: Cervical and uterine cancer

Postoperative Dx: Pending pathology examination

Sggclrnentg) Received:

A: Right adnexa

8: Left ovarian excrescences
C: Cul de sac tissue

0: Right tube and ovary

E: Leﬂ tube and ovary

F: Pelvic tumor

G: Lott pelvic tumor

H: Uterus. cervix

I: Left pelvic sidewall

J: Left pelvic lymph node
K: Right pelvic lymph node
L: Omentum

M: Appendix

M

DIAGNOSiS:
A. Right adnexa:

8. Left ovarian excrescences:
c. Cul de sac tissue:

D. Right tube and ovary:

E. Left tube and ovary:

F. Pelvic tumor:

G. Left pelvic tumor:

H. Uterus, cervix:

ﬂmmummmgmm

CQcF

/cA-a'3

WOW Wmm'd, Afﬂs 9390/3
preﬁx. 51+): jWW C,3"{./

Crway‘qu 65%?

r

Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma
Metastatic carcinoma

ENDOMETRIAL ADENOCARCINOMA

 

Operative procedure: TAHBSO with staging
Histologic typo: Endometrloid with squamous differentiation
$3» We: W's-(4mg: us. FwJ::¢?—;(m "mum "fwmntr M 10‘ re: not an: f.7in lei-s uwdbrzllbdvtm E uizuh mom-pram a: no

UUID:8FD57BC9-19A1-

mummwmmmmu

4427-368F-3E58639FEA40

ulIiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiﬁite”
mmmmmmwummmm

 

 

I It..— MM ,.
ran-cow I?” anomaanmmm CWLMMkW-nmmwd “again amt: Mount-v w-qaumm

 

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Hiatologlc grade(FlGO): Grade 3

Nuclear grade: 3

Tumor size: 5.5 cm

Extent of invasion: Through myometrlum to serosa
Lympholvascular invasion: Present

Serosa: Tumor present
Parametrium: Free of tumor
Cervical involvement: Absent ‘
Right adnexa: Metastatic tumor
Left adnexa: Metastatic tumor
Special studies: On request
Staging information: ' T3a, N1

l. Left pelvic sidewall: Metastatic carcinoma

J. Left pelvic lymph nodes: Metastasis to two of three lymph nodes (213)

K. Right pelvic lymph nodes: Metastasis to two of three lymph nodes (2I3)
L. Omentum: Metastatic carcinoma

M. Appendix: Serosal inﬂammation

Cgmments: c
Consultation has been obtained fromWo agrees with the above
interpretation. Multiple immunoatalns were 0 termine if this represented trophoblastic disease.

I”

 

l e C ltat '
A. Frozen section: Malignant!
B. Frozen section: Malignantl.

G Des
A. Submitted as 'rlght adnexa“ are several fragments of hemorrhagic and slightly granular tan-red tissue weighing approximately
2.0 gms in aggregate. The entire specimen is submitted with the frozen section residual in cassette A1.

8. Submitted as ‘lel't ovarian excrescence' is a fragment of ten tissue weighing <1.0 gm. it is entirely submitted for frozen section
examination.

C. Submitted as ‘cui de sac tissue“ are multiple fragments of hemorrhagic tan tissue and blood clot weighing approximately 17.0
gms in aggregate. Representative sections are submitted in four assettea.

D. Submitted as 'right adnexa' is an enlarged ovary and adjacent fallopian tube weighing 37.0 gms. The tube measures 4.5 cm
in length and up to 0.8 cm in diameter. The ovary is nodular and measures 4.5 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm in greatest dimensions. There
is a hemorrhagic friable area on the extemel ovarian surface. Sectioning through the ovary shows a multicystic cut surface.

Key to cassettes:
D‘l-Ds - Ovary
D4 - Fall0pian tube and paratubel soit tissue

E. Submitted as “left ovary“ is an enlarged ovary and adjacent tube weighing 24.0 gms. The tube measures 5.0 cm in length and

up to 0.5 cm in diameter. The ovary measures 3.6 x 2.5 x 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions. The surface of the ovary has a few
small hemorrhagic tan implants. Sectioning through the ovary shows a multicystic cut surface.

Key to cassettes:

 

 

Page 2 of3

Surgical Pathology Report

E1-E3 - Ovary
E4 - Fallopian tube

 

F. Submitted as ‘pelvic turner" is a single fragment of white-tan tissue weighing approximately 1.0 gm. The nodule has a slightly
ﬁrm and gritty cut surface. The entire specimen is submitted in two cassettes.

G. Submitted as ‘Iett pelvic tumor“ is a fragment of nodular hemorrhagic tan tissue partially covered by a thin grey membrane.
The fragment measures approximately 3.8 cm in greatest dimensions. Representative sections are submitted in three
cassettes.

H. Submitted as 'uterus“ is a previously opened uterus weighing 198.0 gms and measuring approximately 8.8 x 5.4 x 6.0 cm in
greatest dimensions. The ectocervical mucosa is smooth. The endocervicai canal contains no gross lesions. The
endomelrial cavity demonstrates a polypoid friable tan mess on the right lateral wall which measures approximately 1.5 x 2.0 x
1.5 cm. in addition there is a separate fragment of hemonhagic tissue which appears to have become dislodged from the
previously mentioned polyp. This hemorrhagic fragment measures approximately 4.0 cm. in the lower uterine segment there
are three smooth tan polypoid structures arising from the right lateral wall. Serial sectioning of the uterus shows at the
previously described hemorrhagic white-tan polypoid mass shows an ill-defined junction with the underlying myornetn'um.
There is no deﬁnitive gross invasion however the myometrium underneath the polypoid mass has a slightly ﬁrm and nodular .
texture. This nodularlty extends close to the serosal surface.

Key to cassettes:

H1 Anterior cervix

H2 Posterior cervix

H3 Upper endocervical canal

H4 Small tan polyps in the lower uterine segment

H5~H10 Paired full thickness sections through the described abnormal polyp to the uterine serosa
H11 Sections from the separate hemorrhagic tissue fragment

H12-H14 Additional sections flom the polypoid mass

I. Submitted as 'lelt pelvic side wall' is a piece of hemorrhagic tan tissue weighing approximately 1.0 gm. The specimen is
bisected and entirely submitted in two cassettes.

a -
’ ‘ ~ J. Submitted as “tell pelvic lymph node biopsy‘ are several fragments of fatty tissue weighing 13.0 gas in aggregate. Several
nodules suggestive of lymph nodes are present.

Key to cassettes:
J1&J2 Single nodule bisected
J3 Separate lymphnodes intact

K. Submitted as 'right pelvic lymph node biopsy” are two pieces of fibrofatty tissue weighing 6.0 gms. The larger fragment
contains a tan nodular mass which measures 3.0 cm in diameter. This mass is bisected and entirely submitted in cassettes

K1 &K2.

L. Submitted as ‘omenlum' is a large fragment of omentai fat weighing 960 gms. A single small white-tan nodule measuring 0.3
cm in identified grossly. Representative sections are submitted in four cassettes.

M. Submitted as 'appendir is an appendix weighing 6.0 gm and measuring 4.9 cm in length and up to 0.6 cm in diameter. No
gross abnormalities are seen. Representative sections are submitted in two cassettes.

W920
The microscOpic ﬁndings support the above diagnosis.

 

 

Page 3 of 3

