 

  
 
 

CGA-A3—3376

. , . . .SPECIMENINFORMATIO
Collected. Accession

   
 

Received:

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
Left kidney, radial nephrectomy:
Renal carcinoma.

Tumor Characteristics:

1 . Histologic type: Clear cell adenocarcinoma

2. Tumor site; Upper poie.‘

3. Tumor size: Up to 2.5 cm maximal diameter.

4. Macroscopic extent of tumor: Limited to kidney.
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade: 2’4.

Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.

Renal vein invasion: No.

5.
6.
7. Transcapsuiar invasion: No.
8.
9. Venacava invasion: Not resected.
i

O. Adrenal giand: Present, negative for tumor.

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Soft tissue margins: Negative for tumor.

2. Ureteral margin: Negative for tumor.
3. Vascular Margin: Negative for tumor. '

Lymph Node Status:

1 . {No lymph nodes identified.

Other Significant Findings:

1 . The background non-neoplastic kidney shows pronounced arterial and arterioionephrosclerosis as wait as nodular
glomerulesclerosis. Multiple specimens stains will be pertormed to further evaluate these changes, with an addendum report

to follow.
2. pTNM stage: T1 NOMX.

  

Electronic

 

ignature:
COMMENTS: '
"has reviewed the case and concurs with the diagnosis.

, '=' -- --- ' ' -- ' 'CLINICALINFOHMATION

   

 

 

 

 

 

"I'CLINICAL‘INFORMATION

CLiNICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: CA left kidney.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
Left kidney .2

 

.. . . . _. - . ,. .. - . . f-f-SPEGIMEN DATA 7-1:?
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received in a single container labeled with the patients name.“ The specimen consists of a kidney with attached
perinephrio tat measuring 20.0 x 10.0 x 5.5 cm. weighing 463 gm. There is an attached adrenal gland that measures 3.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. The cut surface
is goiden yellow and shows a well demarcated cortex and medulla. There are no lesions identified. The soft tissue margin has been inked The ureter
slump is identified, measuring 6.0 cm in length and 0 3 cm in diameter. The surface is gray to pink- -tan. On sectioning the ureter the mucosai surface Is
yellow to grey— —tan and smooth There are no lesions seen grossly. The renal artery slum p measures 0.7 cm in length and 0 5 cm in diameter, is slightly
atherosoierotlc but grossly unremarkable. The renal vein stump measures 0. 7 cm in length and up to 1.0 cm in diameter and‘ iS grossly unremarkable.
The kidney' is bisected and reveals a circumscribed, golden yellow mass within the upper pole that measures 2 .5 x 2. 5 x 0.5 cm. The mass is conﬁned
to the capsule with no invasion Into the surrounding perinephric fat. The renal pelvis and caiices are gray- tan, smooth, and are unicyclved by the mass.
There are multiple small brown- tan calculi noted within the calioes. There are no other lesions identified. The surrounding renal cortex is brown tan and
measuresoe cm in greatest Wdisplays a Well demarcated cortex and renal pyramids. Received with the specimen are two cassettes, one
green and one yellow, labeled Representative sections are submitted in cassettes“ as follows: Sections from mass in biocks
'1 through 4; sections from surrounding uninvolved renal cortex in block 5; ureter block 6; renal artery and vein block 7; adrenal block 8.

 

 

