 

SPECIMEN

A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Lung carcinoma

R4 lymph node

L4 lymph node
Level 5

Level 7

Level 9 lymph node
Level 7 lymph node
Level 7

Level 10

LLL

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
, excision — Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

h R4
-r-L4, excision — Negative for metastatic carcinoma.
-J- v cision — Negative for metastatic
D) Lymph n cision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

E. Level 9 c-sy: No tumor seen.
F. Level 7 lymph node, biopsy: No tumor seen.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "R4 lymph
nodes" are irregularly—shaped fragments of tan—red tissue
that measure 2 x 1.1 x 0.3 cm. in dimension. The tissue is
entirely
frozen.

 

B. Received in formalin, labeled "L4 lymph nodes" are
irregularly—shaped fragments of lymph nodes that measure 1.3 x 1.2

x
0.4 cm. in dimension. The tissue is entirely frozen.
C. Received fresh labeled "level 5" are irregularly—
shaped
fragments of tan—red tissue that measure 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.5
cm. in dimension. The tissue is entirely frozen as FSC1 and FSC2.
D. Received fresh labeled "level 7" are irregularly—
shaped
fragments of tan—red tissue that measure 1.2 x 0 x 3
cm. in dimension. The tissue is entirely frozen as FSD. c:-
E. The specimen is received fresh for frozen s

labeled "E. level 9 lymph node" and consists of one large
2.5 x 1.6 x 0.6 cm. black lymph node and two smaller lymph node
fragments measuring in aggregate 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The largest

lymph node is bisected to reveal a mottled gray—black appearance.
cimen is entirely frozen as frozen section EFS1 and EFS2.

F. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section
labeled "level 7" and consists of a 2.5 x 1 x 0.8 cm gray
lymph node. The specimen is bisected to reveal a gray—to—red
nodular appearance. No grossly evident metastases are identified.
cimen is entirely frozen as frozen section. FS1 and 2.

G. Received fresh labeled "level 7" is a freshly
fragmented, 5.2 x 2.6 x 1.3 cm tan—gray tissue in keeping
with coalesced lymph nodes. The specimen is sectioned and entirely
submitted in four blocks. AS—4.
H. Received fresh labeled "level 10" are five intact to
slightly fragmented soft gray—black tissues in keeping
with
lymph nodes measuring up to 4 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimens are entirely submitted in four blocks. AS—4.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — four whole lymph nodes; 2—4 — section largest
lymph node.
I. Received fresh, labelled "LLL" is a 312 gram, 15.0 x
11.0 x 5.5 cm lobectomy specimen with attached, 1 cm in
length, 1.6 x 1.0 cm in diameter bronchial stump. A 7.8 cm staple
line is present superiorly. A palpable mass is noted at the hilum
and the overlying pleural surface is inked blue. On sectioning,
there is a moderately well—circumscribed, 5.5 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm
focally
necrotic tan—white tumor mass. The tumor is present within 1 cm of
the bronchial stump (following initial removal) and within 0.2 cm
of
the inked pleural surface. A portion of tumor and a portion of
normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the specimen is
spongiform tan—pink to tan—red with diffuse anthracosis. No
additional mass lesion or abnormality is identiifed. Three
slightly
rubbery gray—black—red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring
up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the hilar

region. R ntative sections are submitted in 10 blocks as
labelled.

BLOCK SU — bronchial stump margin; 25 — tumor to inked
surface of specimen; 6 — tumor to normal parenchyma; 7 — two whole

lymph nodes; 8 — one bis ed lymph node; 9—10 — random from
remainder of specimen.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): Tumor measures 5.5 cm. in dimension and
extends

through the pleura but is not identified at the outer surface of
the

specimen.

Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.

Direct extension of tumor: Tumor extends into the pleura which
shows a desmoplastic response to tumor; tumor is not identified at
the outer surface of the specimen.

Vessel invasion: Not identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN0
Distant metastasis (pM): pr
Other findings: Changes of chronic emphysematous disease with

dilated air spaces with variable marked fibrosis and mild
inflammation with reactive changes.

5x1, 14x6, 15x3, 3x6, 4x2

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node, R4, excision — Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

B. Lymph node, L4, excision — Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

C. Lymph node, level 5, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

D. Lymph node, level 7, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

E. Lymph node, level 9, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

F. Lymph node, level 7, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

G. Lymph node, level 7, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

H. Lymph node, level 10, excision — Negative for metastatic

carcinoma.

I. Lung, left lower lobe, excision — Invasive poorly differentiated

squamous cell carcinoma (see tumor characteristics in the lobectomy
template in the microscopic description).

--- End Of Report --

