 

Phone

 

nal Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis

A. Lymph node, level V, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy in
any of 3 lymph nodes

B. Lymph node, level XI, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

C. Lymph nodes, level VII, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

D. Lymph node, 4L, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

E. Lymph node, level 12, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

F. Lymph node, level IX, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

G. Lymph node, level VIII, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy

H. Lung, left upper lobe, resection:
Moderately to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Emphysema
and peritumoral pneumonia.

I. Lung, left lower lobe, biopsy:
Emphysema, subpleural fibrosis, subpleural bronchiectasis/bronchiolar
metaplasia. Negative for malignancy.

Microscopic Description:

H.

Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic grade: 2-3 out of 3

Mitotic index: 24 mitoses/lO HPFs (l HPF = 0.196 sq mm)
Tumor size: 3 cm

Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy
Pulmonary margin of resection: []

Pleura: Negative for malignancy

Vascular invasion: Focally present

Attached lymph nodes: A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
pTNM stage: le NO

Non-tumorous lung: Peritumoral pneumonia. Emphysema.

Specimen

Level 5 lymph node
Level 11

level VII

4L node

Level XII

Level IX

Level VIII

Left upper lobe

Left lower lobe nodule

HEO'TJP'JUOUZID’

Clinical Information
Squamous cell lung cancer

Intraoperative Consultation
des, level 5, biopsy: Three benign lymph nodes (0/3) . -

Gross Description

A. Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled level V lymph node, are
3 lymph nodes, 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm, 1.1 cm in greatest dimension, and
0.6 cm in greatest dimension. Each lymph node is bisected and
submitted in a separate block for frozen section (total of three blocks
frozen).

B. Specimen B. is received unfixed labeled level XI and consists of 2
pieces of red and bla oft tissue measuring 1.5 cm in greatest
aggregate dimension.

C. The specimen is received unfixed labeled level VII and consists of 2
pieces of red and black soft t e measuring 1.3 cm in greatest
aggregate dimension. Bisected

D. Specimen D. is received unfixed labeled for-L. node and consis f
a piece of red soft tissue measuring 1 by 0.7 x 0.6 cm. Bisected

E. Specimen E. is received unfixed labeled level XII and consists of a
reddish-brown piece of soft tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The
additional piece of similar appearing tissue measuri cm in greatest
dimension. The first measurement piece is bisected.

F. The specimen is received unfixed labeled level IX an nsists of a
red piece of soft tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm.

G. The specimen is received unfixed labeled level VIII and consists of
3 pieces of red black t tissue measuring 1.5 cm in greatest
aggregate dimension.

H. The specimen is received unfixed labeled left upper lobe is and
consists of a 273 g 1 low with red and black serosal surface. The
specimen measures 21 x 10.5 x 4 cm. There is a central palpable mass
that is 3 cm in diameter by external palpation and roughly spherical.
On cut sec the tumor is white and 3 cm in diameter. Sections after
fixation.

Block summary: 1, 2 bronchial and vascular margins of resection
I. The specimen is received unfixed labeled left lower lobe nodule and

consists of a piece of pink and black stapled lung tiss easuring 4.5
by 1.2 x 0.7 cm. Sections after fixation by inflation.

