-a'

’TC/Qﬂvgq‘ [6’39/___ —

Physician Portal : ’ ' Page 1 of 3
Pi- is r_,.r_._. -

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgicai Pathology COPY TO:
corr TO: _-

IO Consultation

Frozen Section Diagnosis: "Large cell carcinoma“

Performed by Dr. _ m Campus ‘ . . ,
'Pre—Op Diagnosis _ ‘ . ' 7 . " _
Pelvic mass , ..
Post-0p Diagnosis , . ”1‘ P4 rJ\\
Ovarian cancer %% sﬁagej . 3 i x
Clinical History

Nothing indicated on requisition

Gross Description:

Ten parts

Container labeled 1 - cervix, uterus, tubes and
ovaries" is a previously laterally sectioned uterus with attached
cervix and bilateral adnexa. The uterus and cervix together weigh
132 grams and on reconstruction measure approximately 9.9 x 6.0 x 5.6
cm. The cervix has a wrinkled tan pink ectooervical mucosa. The 05
is patent. The uterine canal sounds to a depth of 7.4 cm. The
endocervical canal is lined by trabeculated tan mucosa. The uterine
serosa is smooth and pink red with several marginally located nodular
areas of rubbery to fleshy tan gray to pink tissue measuring up to
1.5 cm. Thee: are noted on both the anterior and posterior
peritoneal reflections. The myometrium measures up to 2.2 cm and is
ten pink and trabecular with the presence of an intramural 3.1 cm
well defined tan fibrous nodule with a bulging Hhorled tan fibrotid
cut surface noted in the upper posterior region extending to the
fundus. The endometrial canal is lined by up to 0.3 cm of smooth
edematous tan pink mucosa. No gross lesions are identified.

The left fallopian tube measures 5.4 x 9.7 x 0.? cm and has a smooth
pink red serosa. 0n sectioning there is an edematous tan wall with a
pinpoint lumen. _Boted in the mesosalpingeal soft tissue extending to
the round ligament are several similar nodules of tan gray fleshy to
fibrotic tissue measuring up to 2. D cm. The left ovary measures 5. 2
x 3. 9 x 3. 6 cm and has a lobulated the pink- outer surface with‘
several adherent nodular and plaquevlike areas of similar fibrotic
tissue up to 3.6 cm in greatest dimension. 0n sectioning there is a
previously opened 3.1 cm cystic structure with a smooth inner lining
containing clotted blood. The remaining parenchyma is edematous,
mottled gray tan, and fibrotic.

The right fallopian tube measures 6.4 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm and has a mostly
smooth congested serosa. At the fimbriated and there is an adherent
1.6 cm nodule with similar fleshy to fibrotic tissue. On sectioning
the tube has an edematous tan wall with a pinpoint lumen. The
mesosalpingeal and pararoverian soft tissue shows several similar
nodules up to 1.3 cm. The right ovary measures 4.5 x 2.9 x 2.6 cm
and has a lobular tan pink outer surface with multiple adherent
plaques and nodules of similar lesional tissue measuring up to 1.2
cm. This extends over approximately 50-50% of the ovarian surface.
On sectioning the uninvolved parenohyma is mottled, edematous, tan
pink, and fibrotic appearing.

Also received in the same container is a 4.1 x 3.1 x 2.5 cm nodular
portion of similar lesional tissue With a fleshy to gritty gray tan
fibrotic cut surface. This is received along with 4. D x 2. 9 x l. 2 cm
of similar irregular tissue fragments. ' The- portion submitted for
frozen section is reported as “large cell carcinoma" by

Also received in the same container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled _" The frozen residue is submitted labeled “A."
Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted labeled
as follows: 8 — anterior cervix; C * posterior_cervix; o — lower
uterine segment and shaved posterior serosa; E — representative
anterior peritoneal reflection; F - representative posterior
peritoneal reflection; G — representative poaterior intramural
nodule; H and I ~ full thickness anterior endomyometrium; J ~

 

   
   

 

Ehysioian Portal _ ‘ ' Page 2 of 3

posterior endomyometrium; K ~ raft fallopian tube and surrounding ‘~ -c¢
tissue; L and M — representative left ovary; N — right fallopian tube ’?g d .
and surrounding soft tissue; 0 and P » representative right ovary; Q yh/

and R h representative separate tissue nodules. Q

Container labeled “ 2 - left pelvic sidewall" is a 7.2
x 2.5 x 2.3 cm elongated portion of fleshy to fibrotic gray ten to
pink tissue with gray tan to pink fleshy to fibrotic cut surface.
This is received along with 4.5 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm of similar nodular and
irregular tissue fragments. Representative sections of the larger
fragments are submitted in three casaettes.
container labeled m 3 — right pelvic sidewall" is a
5. 0 x 5 0 x 2.6 cm of soft shaggy focally nodular appearing gray tan
‘to pink fleshy to fibroti-c tissue fragments with fleshy to fibrotic -
tan pink cut surfaces. Representative sections of the larger
fragments are submitted in three cassettes.
Container labeled ' é — pelvic tumor" are three
irregular fragments of soft rubbery shaggy gray pink to brown tissue
measuring from 0.9 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension each and measuring
in aggregate 3.6 x 2.8 x 1.1 cm. On sectioning these have fleshy to
fibrotic gray tan cut surfaces. RepreSentative sections are
submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled “5 * right pelvic lymph node" are
four nodular portions of rubbery tan pink fibrotic tissue from 1.0 to
2.5 cm in greatest dimension each. On sectioning each of these
nodules has a slightly gritty fleshy to fibrotic appearing cut
surface. These are received along with a 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm portion
of pink yellow fibroadipose tissue which on palpation and sectioning
reveal a few poorly defined nodular areas of similar tissue measuring
up to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension each. Representative sections of
the four largest nodules are submitted labeled "A and B" while the
smaller nodules are submitted labeled "c."
Container lagé'led me - right aortic node" are two
nodular portions of rubbery gray ten to pink tissue 2.0 and 2.8 cm in
greatest dimension. 0n sectioning each has a fleshy to fibrotic gray
tan to pink cut surface. Representative sections of each nodule is
submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled m 'i - right sigmoid colon biopsy"
are three nodular portions of rubbery tan gray to pink fleshy to
fibrotic tissue each of which is surrounded by yellow adipose tissue.
The nodules measure from 1.0 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension each.
On sectioning the nodules have'a fleshy to fibrotic gray tan cut
surface. Representative sections of the nodules are submitted in two
cassettes.
Container labeled m3 '- appendix" is a 5. 3 x 0.6 x 0. 6
cm vermiform appendix with a moderate amount of attached
mesoappendix. The serosa is smooth and tan pink while the wall is
fleshy and fibrotic with the lumen up to 0.3 cm containing a small
amount of semi—fluid gray brown fecal material. Noted at the distal
tip on the mesoappendix is a 0.3 cm nodule of gray tan fibrotic
appearing tissue. No other gross lesions are identified.
Representative sections are submitted in a single cassette.
Container labeled m 9 - left pelvic lymph node" is a
1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm nodular portion of fleshy to fibrotic tan gray to
pink tissue with a mottled tan gray to pink fleshy and fibrotic
appearing cut surface. The bisected nodule is entirely submitted in
a single cassette.
Container labeled m1!) — omentum“ is a 60.0 x 14.5 x
up to 2.2 cm sheet of pink yellow vascularized fibroadipose tissue
which on palpation and sectioning reveals several thin delicate
congested fibrous adhesions as well as several embedded and adherent
tan gray fibrotic nodules with fleshy to fibrotic slightly gritty tan
gray out surfaces. . These meaSure up to 2. 6 cm in greatest dimension
and occupy approximately 5% of the total specimen mass. -
Representative sections are Submitted in five cassettes.
m
Microscopic Description:
Slides are reviewed labeled"
Final Diagnosis
Cervix, uterus, tubes and ovaries:
Benign ectocervical squamous mucosa.
Benign endocervical mucosa with squamous metaplasia and small
Nabothian cysts.
Serosal surface demonstrating metastatic adenocarcinoma (see below).
Lower uterine segment demonstrating lymphatic spread of papillary
adenocarcinoma
into the wall of the lower uterine segment.
Anterior and posterior peritoneal reflection demonstrating metastatic
papillary - _ w
adenocarcinoma.
Secretory phase endometrium, day 17. without hyperplasia nor atypia.
Myometrium with metastatic papillary adenocarcinoma within
intravascular luminal and
perineural invasion.
Mural leiomyomata.

 

 

Physician Portal

Left and right fallopian tubes and ovaries:

Bilateral peritubal and intraluminal metastatic papillary
adenocarcinoma.

Papillary serous adenocarcinoma.

Grade: 3.

Location: Bilateral ovaries are involved with at least 50% of the
ovarian parenchyma involved
by neoplasm.

Lynphovascular space invasion: Present.

Right and left fallopian tubes: See above.

Omentum: See specimen #10 below.

other peritoneal biopsies: See below.

Hermrrhagic corpus luteum cyst (left): Simple follicular cyst, right
ov'ary- .
Lymph node status: See specimens #5, 6, and 9 below.

The frozen section diagnosis above is confirmed on permanent
sections.

Left pelvic sidewall:

Metastatic papillary serous adenocarcinoma.

Lymph node with 30% involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma. - I
Right pelvic sidewall:

Metastatic papillary serous adenocarcinoma. - I

Pelvic tumor:

Papillary serous adenocarcinoma. - I

Right pelvic lymph node:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 4.

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 4.
Size of the largest lymph node: 2.3 x 1.5 cm based on direct
measurement

from the glass slide. - I

Right aortic ﬁode:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 2.

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 2.
Size of the largest lymph node: 1.9 x 1.3 cm based on the direct
measurement '

from the glass slide.

Right sigmoid colon biopsy:

Metastatic papillary serous adenocarcinoma.

Trichrome stain reveals focal increase in collagen deposition. -

1

,Appendix:

'Benign vermiform appendix.

Periappendiceal metastatic papillary serous adenocarcinoma. - I
Left pelvic lymph node:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 1.

Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 1.

Size of the lymph node: 1.5 x 0.7 cm based on direct measurement from
the glass slide.

Omentum:

Adipose tissue with multiple nodules of metastatic papillary serous
adenocarcinoma.

Ste B: T3N1MX.

-—-
Comments

It should be noted that the vast majority of the ovarian lesions
appear to he on the left side with the predominance of the right
sided tumor on the surface of the ovary. However, both ovaries do
demonstrate the presence of papillary serous adenocarcinoma.
Psammoma bodies are found in both the primary sites and the
metastatic sites.

This teSt has been finalized at the“ Campus.

# .

“in.

 

   

     

Pag630f3 .l
E

 

