UUID : 395EF461 -5733-4651-800E-7831D1ACD609

||||
IHI
Illl

)Cb'a’5

TCGA—DE—AAMB-BlA-PR Redacted ‘ «Y! . ‘d (I’M!)
llllllll||||||||II|||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl||||||l|||||||| 3,355” waﬁip‘fﬂxd‘MMWMW 9340/3
....:.... -W «w.

Illlllllllll SURGICAL PATHOLOGY ”fa/4...
Case Number :
Diagnosis:

A: Thyroid cartilage, left margin, biopsy
— Positive for invasive carcinoma, consistent with papillary
thyroid carcinoma.

B: Lymph nodes, level 5, left neck, regional node dissection
— No tumor seen in five lymph nodes (0/5).
— Benign skeletal muscle and soft tissue.

0

Lymph nodes, level 4, left neck, regional node dissection
No tumor seen in nine lymph nodes (0/9).
Benign skeletal muscle and soft tissue.

D: Lymph nodes, level 3, left neck, regional node dissection

— Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma in 1 of 13 lymph nodes
(1/13); maximum size of metastasis <O.1 cm; negative for
extracapsular extension.

E: Lymph nodes, level 2, left neck, regional node dissection

— Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma in 2 of 9 lymph nodes
(2/9); maximum size of metastasis 0.7 cm; negative for
extracapsular extension.

F: Thyroid, total thyroidectomy

Tumor histologic type: papillary thyroid carcinoma, papillary
and follicular variants

Tumor size: 4.4 cm maximum tumor size
Tumor growth pattern: infiltrative

Tumor focality: multifocal; single dominant mass within left
lobe with multiple papillary microcarcinomas identified in right
lobe, measuring 0.1 cm, 0.1 cm, 0.2 cm and <O.1 cm (F2)

Extent of invasion:

Capsular Invasion: not applicable

Lymphovascular: not identified

Blood vascular: not identified

Extra thyroidal extension: extentive invasion into perithyroidal
soft tissues with invasion of skeletal muscle identified

Surgical margins: Carcinoma extensively involves the posterior
resection margin (F5, F6, F7, F8, F9, F10, F11); carcinoma
involves the inferior en face margin (F12); carcinoma is very
close <O.1 cm from the anterior resection margin (F5, F8, F9,
F10).

Status of thyroid gland away from tumor: multinodular thyroid

Lymph nodes: separately submitted; total lymph node count for
all specimens is 3 of 36 lymph nodes involved by metastatic
papillary thyroid carcinoma (3/36)

Size of largest metastasis (greatest dimension): 0.7 cm
Extracapsular (perinodal) extension: not identified
Other significant findings: benign thyroid tissue

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 leb

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:
The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section was requested by

FSAl: Thyroid cartilage margin, left, biopsy
— Positive for carcinoma
Dr. concurs.

Frozen Section Pathologist: , MD

Clinical History:
—year~old female with left thyroid mass. FNA was strongly
suspicious for malignancy papillary vs. possible medullary.

Gross Description:
Specimen A is labeled "left thyroid cartilage margin" and is a 6
x 5 x 3 mm aggregate of firm red/yellow tissue, FSAl,

Specimen B is labeled "left neck level 5" and is a 3.6 x 2.5 x
1.5 cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue and muscle. The specimen
is dissected for lymph node candidates. Four lymph node
candidates measuring up to 0.4 cm in greatest dimension are
identified.

Block Summary: -
B1 — Four lymph node candidates
B2 - Sample from muscle

Specimen C is labeled "left neck level 4" and is a 3.4 x 3.2 x
1.0 cm aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue and attached
muscle, dissected for lymph node candidates. Lymph node
candidates measuring up to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension

are identified.

Block Summary:

C1 — One lymph node candidate, bisected

C2 — Five lymph node candidates

C3 - Four lymph node candidates

C4 — Representative section from skeletal muscle

Specimen D is labeled "left neck level 3" and is a 4.3 x 2.5 x
1.0 cm aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue, dissected for
lymph node candidates. Lymph node candidates measuring up to 1.2
cm in greatest dimension are identified.

Block Summary:

D1 — Four lymph node candidates
D2 — Three lymph node candidates
D3 — One lymph node candidate

Specimen E is labeled "left neck level 2" and is a 3.7 x 2.4 x
1.0 cm aggregate of focally cauterized yellow/tan fibrofatty
tissue, dissected for lymph node candidates. Lymph node
candidates measuring up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension

are identified.

Block Summary:

E1 — Three lymph node candidates

E2 - Two lymph node candidates

E3 — One lymph node candidate

E4 — One lymph node candidate, bisected

Specimen F:

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Total thyroidectomy

Size and weight of specimen: 30.5 grams, 7.9 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm
overall. Composed of a 5.6 x 4.8 x 1.8 cm left lobe, 3.4 x 2.3 x
1.1 cm right lobe

Orientation: Inking: anterior/blue, posterior/black, and
isthmus/yellow

Tumor location: The tumor involves the entire left thyroid lobe.
The isthmus and right lobe are uninvolved.

Focality: Unifocal

Dominant tumor: Left thyroid lobe

Tumor description: Solid, firm, ill-defined tan and gritty
Tumor size: 4.4 x 3.7 x 1.8 cm

Confinement/non-confinement : Appears to extend beyond the

thyroid gland on the left hand side posteriorly and inferiorly
and possibly superiorly.

Distance of tumor to surgical margins: The tumor abuts the blue—
inked anterior margin, the black inked posterior margin along
the majority of the surface.

Appearance of thyroid gland away from tumor: The right lobe of
the thyroid is dark red and homogeneous with no nodules or
masses appreciated. The isthmus is grossly unremarkable. There
is a 1.2 cm in diameter colloid nodule located along the
anterior medial edge of the tumor near the isthmus.

Parathyroids: Not identified

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor is given to
tissue procurement.

Lymph nodes: Submitted separately.

Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

Inking: anterior/blue, posterior/black and isthmus/yellow
Fl—F2 — Representative sections from right lobe

F3 — Perpendicular sections of left thyroid lobe, superior
margin

F4—F5 — Section from superior portion of nodule

F6—F7 — Representative section of mass with colloid nodule
towards isthmus

(medial)

F8 — Central portion of tumor along lateral edge

F9 - Central portion of tumor showing relationship to posterior
and anterior margins

F10 — Inferior edge of tumor towards lateral edge

F11 — Inferior edge of tissue inferior edge of mass in soft
tissue

F12 — En face inferior margin

F13 ~ Fat attached to inferior pole of mass

wsrwanq'
1m niSU-plmy

ifiz‘lmwxlslyls

 

 

 
   
 

 

  

 

