Surgical Pathology Report

.z .. .. ”mm. «a». “——

 

332: =---

Case #: ‘

Collected:
Received:
Reported: J
Copy To:

 

 

 

 

Gender: F

MRN: '.
Location:

Physician:

Pathologic Interpretation:
A. Right axllla:

- Micrometastatic carcinoma in one out of six lymph nodes (1/6)

— Size of metastatic deposit: 1.25mm

- Note: lmmunohistochemistry for keratin was used for interpretation.

3. «Right lumpectomy:

- Invasive. poorly differentiated ductalcarcinoma. high nuclear grade. 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.
- Invasive carcinoma is present at less than 1 mm from the interior margin.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ is present within 1 mm of lateral and interior margins.

- Lymphovascular space invasion is identiﬁed.
- Previous biopsy site.
- See Tumor Summary.

Wm:

Specimen Type: Right lumpectomy

Procedure: Excision with wire-guided localization
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes
Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen
Specimen Size:

~ Greatest dimension: 8.9 cm.

- Additional dimensions: 8.2 x 2.3 cm.

Laterallty: Right

Tumor Size: ._

~ Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 2.5 cm.

- Additional dimensions: 2.2 x 1.2 cm.
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma.
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:

Skin: invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis.

Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present.
Hlstologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
Histologlc Grade:

~ Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3: Vesicular nuclei, often with prominent nucleoli, exhibiting marked variation

shape, occasionally with very large and bizarre forms.
Mitotic count: Score 1
Overall Grade: Grade 2: Scone of 6 or 7
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Distance from closest margin: < 1 mm (inferior)
Specify margins:
Distance from superior margin: 10 mm
Distance from inferior margin: < 1 mm
Distance from anterior margin :> 10 mm
Distance from posterior margin: < 2 mm
Distance from medial margin :> 10 mm
Distance from lateral margin: > 10 mm

Margins: uninvolved by DClS:

Distance from closest margin: < 1 mm (inferior. lateral)
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgical (neoadjuVant): Therapy: No known Presurgical therapy.

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Lymph Nodes:

 
  

H.115 —t7—3
WW, Mﬂrwz M
sin: W, was CJ’M’

 

UUID : 88E39E13-5ADC-481A-992E-61053BE
CGA-EW— V BCBD4

mnumﬁuunmnﬁiﬁ

Alt; (Vim/3
3//J«//r ,4/

llﬁlﬁlﬁimmmrlllfiﬁl‘l’liliute”

I” lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH Ill
I”llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll"I”gill'l'l'lll'l'lmill,:l'll

:1 size and

 

0 SURGICAL PATHOL Report

Number of sentinel nodes examined: 6
Total number of nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel): 6
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>02 cm): 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>02 mm to 0.2 cm and/or“>200 cells): 1
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (<02 mm and 5200 cells): 0
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 1.25mm
Extranodal Extension: Not identiﬁed.
Method of evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
- Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). one level
- lmmunohistochemistry

[:ZIPathologic Staging (pTNM): pTz, pNtml, pM (not applicable)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1ml

Ancillary Studies: To Follow

NO‘IE: Some i-mhlstnchurlml antibodies an analyte specific reagents (ASRJ) validated by our laboratory. "in: AXRr an elinrmlly Inﬁll "MW that do not require FDA we! Ti
It)! ‘Fﬁ. Pglt tile-PR. 14854 HERZ. 11-! I ~EGI‘R. All Immhmrrdleniml mutate um! with/0mm: or molecular ﬁred. paw embattled unite. Delecrtat is hy lettan MOM The t
pathologist m pvur‘liw nr mm.

a! clones are and:
rsuhr m marl by a

 

A: the attending pathologist. l attest that I: (i) Examined the "(n+1 preparation(.r)

for the .rpecr‘men(s): and (it) Rendered the diagnosidex).

MDA

“'Electronically Signed Out By'“

ProcedureslAddenda
Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: ,
Date Reported:
W
A. Right axilla:
- The tumor cells are negative for ER, PR and Her-2 by immunohistochemistry.
- The tumor cells are also negative for E—cadherin.

- This immunophenotype may be seen in the basal subtype of mammary carcinoma.
- Additional lmmunohistochemistry to follow.

._.-. :.MD

Addendum Date Ordered: i Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
Date Reported: .
d en l l

B. Right lumpectomy one suture superior, two medial:

 

 

W - «a—

Page 2 of3

 

. s-.-..~_..v.e «we-”m. Wk!”

a SURGICAL PATHOL Report

- The tumor cells are positive for p-cadherin and negative for CK5I6 and EGF R by lmmunohistochemistry.

 

MD

lntr er ti e ns ti
Right axilla. FS: 3 lymph nodes: no tumor on frozen section. Await sentinel node protocol for definitive diagnosis.

MD

   
        
 

Cli ' i i '
Patient with biopsy proven 63 cancer right breast i for needle localization segmental mastectomy with SL . Please
evaluate sentinel nodes for metastasis and do lmmunohistochemistry on permanents if frozen negative, evaluate lum bectomy

margins.

r P
Right needle localization mastectomy with SLNB. possible AND. right lumpectomy

Pg Qgeggivg QIggnosig;
Cancer right breast

Specimen(s) Received:
A: Right axilla fs
B: Right lumpectomy one suture superior , two medial

D s '
A. Received fresh for frozen section is an irregular fragment of fibroadipose tissue. measuring 3.2 x 2.0 x 1.1 c . Seven
lymph nodes are identiﬁed at the time of consultation. In the rest of the adipose tissue two possible lymph not es are
identiﬁed. The fragments are submitted in toto as follows:
1-3 One lymph node per cassette for frozen section
4&5 One additional lymph node per cassette
6&7 The rest of the fibroadipose tissue

 

the specimen are fibroadipose with a stroma to fat ratio of 10:90. Representative sections are submitted as f
1&2 Sections of the tumor in relation with the inferior and superior margins

  
      

3 Tumor in relation with the deep margin

4&5 Additional sections (composite) of the tumor in relation with the inferior and deep margins
6 Lateral margin

7 Medial margin

8 Anterior margin

9-11 Additional sections of the tumor

Zriteril
)ragrwsis Discrepﬁ"
'rimary rumor Site Discrepancy ~“
"PM Discrepancy _ ~—
‘rinr Malignancy history

  

 

 

 

 

