 

  
 

CGA—ﬂﬁ—5412

 

T RY
Whas experienced _ On imaging

there is a large right temporoparietal mass with rim—enhancement and

prominent
associated vasogenic edema.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain, right parietal tumor, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A and B. Brain, right parietal, excisional biopsies:
A. Glioblastoma.

B. MIB-l proliferation index: > 8%.

See MicrOSCopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT
The neoplasm is a glioblastoma with brisk mitotic activity, a high MIB—l

proliferation index, focal microvascular cellular proliferation, and zones

of
tumor necrosis.

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
MGMT Promoter Methylation

Date Ordered: — Date Reported:
Interpretation

 

POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkyiating agents. Assessment

of

MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA

followed
by real—time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated

DNA
sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by serial
dilution of methylated poaitive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and was
assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated DNA.
Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the sample, or
extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated MGMT

promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by the “laboratory as
required by CLIA ' .regulations. It as not een c eared or approved for
specific uses by the 0.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results
are

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

  

PCR for EGFR variant III mutation

Date Ordered: — Date Reported: _
Interpretation

NEGATIVE — No evidence of EGFRvIII mutation is detected

Results—Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tumor paraffin

block
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular

target

in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III
(EGFRvIII} is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that
is

commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRvIII as defining prognostically distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRVIII has been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyroaine kinase inhibitors when the tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to CDNA. The cDNA
is

then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this assay

has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a
stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its performance
Characteristics determined by the laboratory as
required by CLIA ‘ -regulations. It has not been cleared or approved for
specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results

are

 

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

***Electronicalli Siined Out‘w”r

INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

A.

Brain, right parietal tumor, excision biopsy: High histological grade
glioma

(C/W glioblastoma) . - Touch preparation smears performed at -

Land results reported to the Physician of Record. —

A.
“Right parietal tumor," received fresh, three fragments, 0.7 cm in

aggregate.

Soft, listening, greyish—red. In total, Al and A2.
canllillllll

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

The sections contain an astrocytic (strong GFAP fibrillogenesis} neoplastic
proliferation with nuclear anaplasia, brisk mitotic activity, focal
microvascular cellular proliferation (better observed in the Tumor Tissue
Bank

sections-, vial 3 top), and zones of tumor necrosis. The CD34
depicts

the rich vascularity of the tumor. The CD163 demonstrates a heavy
infiltration of the tumor by phagocytic cells. There are sparse lymphocytes
highlighted by the LCA. With the MIB—l there is an absolute proliferation
index of about 8%, which in reality is probably at least three times greater
when taking into account the large number of phagocytic cell nuclei within
the

tumor mass.

ICU—9(5):

Histo Data
Part A: Brain, right parietal tumor, excision biopsy
Taken: — Received: —
Stain/cut Block Ordered Comment
H/E x l 1
TPS H/E x l

CD163 Vector x l
CD34—DA x l

LCA—DA x 1

EGFR vlll~curls x 1
mGFAP—DA x 1

H/E X l

MGMT—curls x l
MIBl—DA x l

 

    

NNNNNNNMH

*** End of Report ***

 

