UUID: 829EE384- 5074- ADDA- A33A- 2560184626F1ac
TCGA- 58- ASBN- 91A- PR

ll||||||||||Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|||||
III "III | ||||||ll l lllllllllllllllll Ill ||I|| I llllll II III

Clinical Information: JéD‘O ' 3

year male with history of dysphagia and PET positive mass. ' W
W /
Operative Procedure: 3570/ 5

lvor Lewis esophagectomy W Nbﬁ M 05

Specimen Received. 5 J11 W 5'9

Stomach margin (FS)

Esophagus 9¢E 3124//§
Esophageal margin (FS)

Subcarinal lymph node

Portal lymph node

W999???

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Stomach. margin, excision:
Negative for malignancy.
Fifteen benign lymph nodes (0/15).
Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis.

B. Esophagus, lvor-Lewis esophagectomy:

Specimen: Esophagus
Procedure: lvor-Lewis esophagectomy
Tumor site: ESOphagus, not otherwise specified

Relationship of tumor to esophagogastric junction:
Tumor is entirely located above‘ the esophagogastric junction
Distance of tumor center from esophagogastric junction cannot be assessed

Tumor size: 5.2 x 4.3 x 2.1 cm
Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: Well differentiated

Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades into the muscularis propria

Margins:
Proximal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Circumferential (adventitial) margin: Uninvolved by invasive
carcinoma

If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma,

distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin:
<O.1 cm

Specify margin: Circumferential
(adventitial) margin

Treatment effect: None

Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified

 

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic staging (pTNM):
TNM descriptors: None known
Primary tumor (pT): pT2

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO
Number examined: 22 also see parts A, D, and E
Number involved: 0

Distant metastasis (pM): pMX

Additional pathologic ﬁndings: Granuloma consistent with the history
of sracoidosis.

C. Esophagus, margin, resection:
Negative for malignancy.
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

D. Lymph node, subcarinai, excision:
One benign lymph node (0/1 ).
Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis.

E. Lymph node, portal, excision:
One benign lymph node (0/1).
Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA1&A2: Stomach margin:
Negative for tumor.
F/S TAT: 14.5 mins.

FSC: Esophageal margin:
Negative for tumor.
F/S TAT: 16 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are five containers, all labeled with the patient's name

Part A is received fresh for frozen section and additionally labeled "stomach
margin" and consists of an 8.2 x 5.2 x 4.7 cm partial stomach resection. There

is a moderate amount of attached fat. There is also 0.9 cm of distal esophagus
attached. The esophageal mucosa is tan-pink and wrinkled. The gastric mucosa is
tan with the normal folds.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
A1 residual tissue from frozen section A1;

A2-3 residual frozen section A2;

A4-5 representative sections of GE junction;
A6 one whole probable lymph node trisected;
A7-9 probable lymph nodes.

Part B is received in formalin additionally labeled "esophagus" and consists of

a 9.7 cm in length segment of esophagus with moderate attached amount of fat.
The specimen is not oriented. The specimen is previously opened to reveal a 5.2
x 4.3 cm tan centrally ulcerated mass with raised, irregular well delineated
borders. The mass comes to within 1.6 cm of the mucosal margin and 4.9 cm of the
opposing mucosal margin. The mass on sectioning is tan, firm and homogeneous
with a thickness of 2.1 cm. The mass involves the muscularis propria and
possibly extends to the subjacent fat and abuts the inked deep margin. The
uninvolved esophageal mucosa is tan—pink and wrinkled. Search of the adjacent
fat reveals a 2.9 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm lymph node and additional multiple probable
lymph nodes.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1 -4 representative sections of tumor;
35-6 normal esophagus;
BT representative sections of lymph node;
88 multiple probable lymph nodes.

Part C is received fresh for frozen section and additionally labeled "esophageal
margin" and consists of three portions of pink-tan soft tissue. Residual
sections are submitted in cassettes C1 and C2.

Part D is received in formalin and additionally labeled "subcarinal lymph node"
and consists of two portions of tan-brown irregular soft tissue, one with
dimensions of 1.7 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm and the second with dimensions of 1.9 x 0.5 x
0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette D1.

Part E is received in formalin and additionally labeled "portal lymph node" and
consists of a portion: of pink-tan to brown irregular soft tissue with dimensions
of 3.1 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is step sectioned to reveal a pink-tan cut
surface. Representative sections are submitted in cassette E1.

Microscopic Description:

The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: DOB: (Age ) Gender: M

