 
   
 

Case Number : -

Collection Date : -

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

Kidney, right, laparoscopic nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Sarcomatoid features: not identiﬁed

Histologic grade (if applicable): 3 (of 4, Fuhrman classiﬁcation)
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.4 cm diameter

Tumor focality: unifocal

Extent of invasion:

Extra-capsular invasion into perirenal adipose tissue: not identiﬁed
Renal sinus: not involved

Major veins: not involved

Ureter: not involved

Venous: not involved

Lymphatic: not involved

Surgical margins:

Perinephric adipose tissue: not involved

Renal vein: not involved

Ureter: not involved

Adrenal gland: not received

Lymph nodes: none received

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: patchy chronic interstitial nephritis, ﬁbrosis, and tubular atrophy
AJ CC Stage: pT1b pNx pr

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional information.

Clinical History:
a renal mass.

Gross Description:
Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Laparoscopic nephrectomy
Side of specimen: Right

Size and weight of specimen: 700 grams, 26.5 x 14 x 8.7 cm overall nephrectomy specimen is received composed of an 11.7 x 8 x 6 cm
kidney, abundant attached perinephric fat and 4 cm of attached ureter.

Orientation: The perinephric fat margin is inked green.
Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Absent

Tumor description/site: The tumor is located in the lateral aspect of the specimen along the posterior edge mid way between the superior and
inferior poles. It is a circumscribed lobulated and variegated tan/red to brown/gray lesion with multiple small tumor buds extending into the

parenchyma.

Tumor size: 5.4 x 4.3 x 4.0 cm

Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent

Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the kidney: Appears conﬁned to the kidney, although it markedly expands the renal capsule. The overlying
perinephric fat appears freely movable.

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Questionable involvement (A2)
Gerota' s fascia: Tumor grossly does not involve

Renal vein: Tumor grossly does not involve

Ureter: Tumor grossly does not involve

Other organs: N/A

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Within 0.2 cm (A4)
Renal vein: Negative

Renal artery: Negative

Ureter: Negative

Description of kidney away from tumor: The parenchyma is gray/tan and homogeneous with an average cortical thickness of 0.8 cm The
pelvic urothelium is velvety tan/white and grossly unremarkable and the ureter is of normal caliber.

Lymph nodes (hilar): None identiﬁed - the sample from the hilar fat is submitted for investigation.
Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: None

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal are given to tissue procurement.
Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:
A1 - Ureter and vascular margin of resection

A2 - Tumor questionable involvement of perinephric fat
A3 - Tumor expanding capsule

A4

A5 - Tumor and adjacent renal parenchyma

A6 - Central tumor

A7 - Normal kidney

A8 - Hilar fat (Brady)

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

