UUID: C925D7B7- SBBC- 4171- BOIF 2DE8C7BR917SBac
TCGA- XT- ABMG- I1A- PR

illlll'l'l'l'I'I'Il"lllll'.'.lll'.'.lili'l'flllllll'll'll'll'l”

[CEO-3

Thymectomy via sternotomy. (:j-AAWIA—l 13% Beg-7m ‘a/

Operative Procedure-

Pre-Operative Diagnosiss [10:13" JL 4 J7 n 0) IA“, ”W01 t [nagging J

MIxed lymphocyte epIthelIal thymoma.

Kwig/13

. )6 .»
Post—Operative Diagnosis: 6411 -_ JMWJQ/ C6 2 (7

Same.

Specimen Received:
Thymus

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
Thymus, thymectomy:
Thymoma, mixed lymphocytic and epithelial type with minimal invasion. See note.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:

The specimen is received fresh for Tissue Procurement with the patient's name.
labeled "thymus", and consists of a 231.0 gm., 14.2 x 14.0 x

2.8 cm. portion of gray-yellow, lobular fat with an area of palpable induration.
This area of induration has dimensions of 6.5 x 6.5 x 3.2 cm. The cut surface
of the area outside of the induration is gray-yellow, glistening, and
predominantly fatty with minimal amounts of interspersed fibrous tissue. The
area of induration is inked blue, serially sectioned to reveal a variegated cut
surface with focal areas that have a fish—flesh appearance. There are focal
areas that are yellow with focal calcification. Intervening fibrosis is

present. This area of induration grossly appears to extend to the inked margin.
No normal thymic tissue can be grossly identified. Representative sections of
aforementioned mass are submitted in cassettes "1" through "7" while a
representative section of normal appearing fat is submitted in cassette "8".

Microscopic Description:

Histologic sections show encapsulated lobulated mass composed predominantly of
small lymphocytes and large epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei and abundant

pink cytoplasm Few foci of thymoma are present In the surrounding adipose
tissue. Focal necrosis with surrounding fibrohistiocytic reaction and

hemosiderin deposition consistent with recent biopsy site is identified. These
morphologic findings are consistent with mixed lymphocytic and epithelial

thymoma with minimal invasion.

Taken: DOB: (Age: Gender: Male

Q3) (aim/I4

8.9. pm) T55.

 

