UUID:DBIZMDA-ED34- 4733- ASDD- ECEDSStkOﬂQla
TCGA- 22- ADJE 1AP-
Illlnl‘llllllllllllllll
|||||I||ll||

ilm'l'illlllll'h'l'llﬁ ii" We;

cull: wee/,5
53,123 g)" was awe

 

Final Diagnosis

A.

3.,

"SKIN LESION X3 RIGHT RANK,“ EXCISION:
Two aeborrheic keratosis, both involving inked surgical margin.
One lichenoid keratosis, completely excised.

CW) 4/28” 9'

RIGHT KIDNEY, BIOPSY:

Fibroconmctive tissue with atrophic renal tubules and local mild chronic inﬂammation.
negative for malignancy.

”RIGHT RENAL MASS,“ HEMINEPHRECTOMY:

Renal cell carcinoma, papillary type t, Fuhrman nuclear grade 2 ol 4.
Two papillary adencmas. each measuring less than 1 mm.

Portion of adrenal gland with no signiﬁcant pathological change.

See Key Pathological Findings.

RIGHT ADRENAL GLAND, ADRENALECTOMY:
Adrenal gland with hemorrhage, negative for malignancy.

the attending patholog'st, personally reviewed the attire case and rendered the ﬁnal

diagnoaie. Electronicall3 Signed Qut3337

Key Pathological Findings

‘t’umor type: Renal cell carcinoma, papillarytwe 13

Nuclear grade: Fuhrman rmclear grade 2 at Al.

Pattern a: growth: Papillary.

Tumor size: 4- cm.

Invasion through Renal capsule: Not klentiﬁed-

invasion of Getola's Fascia: Not applicable.

Renal vein invasion: Not appﬁcable.

Surgical margins: Free-

Norweoplastlc kidney: Focal mild chronic inflammation, glomerulosclemsis, and
tubular atrophy.

Adrenal gland: Not involved.

Lymph nodes: Not applicable,

Pathologic stage: pT’1aNXMX.

Specimen“! Received

A 3 LESKONS RlGHT FLANK ~ GROSS EXAM
B RENAL BX - RIGHT KIDNEY FS

0 RIGHT REML MASS FS

D ADRENAL- RISE-l3"

Clinics! History
Right renal mass.

Preoperative Diagnosis
Mass right kidney.

Intraoperative Consultation

A. SKIN LESION X3 RIGHT FLANK, GROSS EXAMINATION:
Grossly benign-

ESE-1. RENAL BIOPSY RIGHl’ KIDNEY:
Benign ﬁbromuscu Iar tissue» with focal inﬂammation.
No evidence of malignancy.

F801. RIGHT RENAL MASS:
Papillary renal cell carcinoma, Inked margin is free of tumor.

Comment: These gross and frozen section diagnoses/results were communicated to and
acknowledged by '

l, have performed the intraoperative consultations and issued the above
diagnoses.

/

Gross Description

A Specimen A is labeled "skin lesion :13 right flank". The specimen is received fresh and
consists of an unoriented, gray—tan, wrinkled ellipse of skin with attached subcutaneous tissue {4.5 x
1} excised to a depth of 1 cm. There are 3 lesions on the epithelium surface ranging from 0.2 cm lid
9.5 cm In greatest dimension. The specimen is marked with blue ink on one half and green Ink on the
opposite half. The remainder of the cut surface is grossly unremarkable. No tissue is submitted to
Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Permanent representative sections are submitted as:

Al: Both tips
92“. Lesion No-1 largest
A3: Lesion No. 2
A4: lesion No. 3.
B. The specimen is received fresh for QR consult, labeled ”renal biopsy right kidney, frozen

section". The specimen consists of a l1? 3: 6.5 x 62 cm, soft, red-31mm, irregular fragment of tissue
which is entirely submitted as frozen section as FSB’E.

C. The specimen Is received fresh for OR consult, labeled "tight renal mass, frozen section
margins and diagnosis". The specimen consists of a moderately firm, red-brown, irregular, renal mass
which consists of normal renal parenchyma and adipose tissue measuring 6 x 5 x 4.5 cm In overall
dimension. The surgical margin of resection is marked with black Ink and the renal capsule with
adipose tissue ls inked blue. Sectioning reveals a soft to somewhat ﬁrm yellow-brown, necrotic
partially hemorrhagic mass {4 x 3.5 l 3.3 cm). The mass is located approximately 1 2 cm from the
surgical margin of resection. Grossly, the mass does not appear to mﬁltrate the capsule. The
remaining renal parenchyma is grossly unremarkable. Additional sectioning isolates what grossly
appears to be a portion of the adrenal gland measuring 2 cm in Its greatest dimension. No tissue is
submitted to the ”(issue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
FSCl: Frozen section of renal mass with inked parenchymal margin

[perpendicular section)

CZ-CB: Representative section of renal mass
(:9: Grossly unremarkable renal parenchyma
€10: Possible adrenal gland
Cit: Attached perinepnric adlpose tissue.
Cl. Specimen D is labeled “right adrenal“. The specimen is received fresh and consists of a 14.1

gm, 1" x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. soft to somewhat firm yellow-tan tissue which is entirely marked with black ink-
Serial sections reveal a. bright orange peripheral focus with a hemorrhagic center measuring 3.5 x 2 x
1 cm. The remainder of the cut surface Is grossly unremarkable. No tissue is submitted to the "tissue
Procurement Laboratory. Permanent representative sections are submitted as:

81—03: Adrenal gland with a hemorrhagic center

D4: Additional section of adrenal gland.

   

Criteria M I! 3! j E
Diagnosis Discrepancy

Primary Tumor Si
HIPAA Discrepan
Prior Malignant! History
Dull/Synchronous Prime -

Case is [circle]: . ‘
Reviewer Initials '

 
  
 
 

   
 

