‘tb~0'9

. . ‘ \ N05
.Eﬁimmwmwmdgm WhmMMMﬁﬁggﬁM¢HMW
RESULTS FOR SELECTED GRID CELL, SUMMARY

Printed

 
 
 
 

:1

Iver]-

 
 

UUID:6FEBlDFO-D9DF-420F-8A91-40421175A12F
TCGA-As-AaVQ-e - acted

1A PR Red
IlllllllllllllllllIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllI
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ll
mHIIHHllJHIIHHIIHHIIIHlMIIMII(illi'liflllf'f'llflillllimI"

anarv lumor Site Discrepancy
HIP/\A
an

 
   
 
   
 

(an I:
Reviewer

  

‘/ LQESULTED Collect D/T= ’

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (l of
Modifiers:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
CoPath Specimen

 

sou;::rus, cervix and bilateral tubes/ovaries, (Frozen Section)
Right pelvic Lymph Node, excision .

Right periaortic Lymph Node, exc1s1on

Left pelvic Lymph Node, excision .

Left periaortic Lymph Node, exci51on

[1300033,

Addenda/Procedures

Addendum Date Ordered:
Date Complete: "
Date Reported:

 

Addendum Final Diagnosis

There is a typographical error on final diagnosis of specimen A.
It should be corrected to read:

"Extension of myometrial invasion as 0.8cm in depth"

***Electronically Signed Out _ *

Addendum Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

Addendum Final Diagnosis
Specimen E:

There is a typographical area on Final Diagnosis of Specimen E.
It should be corrected to read:

— No tumor identified in 7 lymph nodes examined {0/7).

 

***Electronically signed Out

 

 

 

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GR?“ ‘“" """"‘“"
Printed'

: F DOB!
Att

 

Final Diagnosis

A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes (total
laparoscopic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy):

— Endometrial adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type, FIGO grade 3.
— Tumor dimensions: 4 X 4 X 1.5 cm.

- Location: entire endometrial cavity, extending into the lower
uterine segment.

— Extent of myometrial invasion: 0.8 mm in depth (myometrial
thickness 2.2 cm), 36% of myometrial wall thickness.

- Lymphovascular space involvement identified.

- Lower uterine segment positive for tumor.

— Endocervix mucosa positive for tumor.

- Uterine serosa negative for tumor.

- Right and left parametrium negative for tumor.

- Right ovary and fallopian tube negative for tumor.

— Left ovary and fallopian tube negative for tumor.

- Inclusion cyst of the left ovary.

- See comment.

Comment: Immunohistochemical stains, synaptophysin and
chromogranin performed on

Block All show rare cells positive for chromogranin and negative
for synaptophysin.

Cytokeratin AEl/AE3 performed on block A7 (left parametrial
tissue) negative for tumor.

These findings support the above diagnosis.

B. Right pelvic lymph node (lymph node dissection):
— No tumor identified in 5 lymph nodes examined (0/5).

C. Right periaortic lymph node (lymph node dissection):
No tumor identified in 6 lymph nodes examined (0/6).

D. Left pelvic lymph node (lymph node dissection):
No tumor identified in 7 lymph nodes examined (0/7).

E. Left periaortic lymph node (lymph node dissection):

— No tumor identified in 7 lymph nodes examined (0/6).

- See comment.

Comment: The previous case was also reviewed with

this case.

Page 2

I V D08
I Act
ed)
Acccm — .
***Electronicallv signed Out
M.D.€
Comment(s)
Note: The immunoperoxidase stain report above was developed and
its performance characteristics determined by ,,

__ ' medicine. It has not
been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, although such approval is not required for
analyte-specific reagents of this type. Appropriate positive and
negative controls are included for each case.

-\, When ER/PR is performed the antibody clones used area as

follows: ER: 105;

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GRID CELL, SUMMARY
Printed "‘

formalin fixed tissue.

Clinical History

year—old with history of EMCA with history of postmenopausal

bleeding.

Pre Operative Diagnosis
Vaginal bleeding; endometrial cancer.

Operation Performed
EUA, laparoscopy.

Operative Findings
Normal uterus/tubes/ovaries.

Intraoperative Diagnosis
Frozen Section:

Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and tubes:
— Endometrial adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade 2; 25% — 30%
\, myometrial invasion.

, MD

PR 636 with LSAB method on paraffin embedded,

Page 3

 

 

 

 

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GRID CELL, SUMMARY
Printed ' ‘"

 

ﬁg!

 

Gross Description
The specimen is received in 5 parts, labeled with the patient's

name

Specimen A is labeled as "uterus and cervix, bilateral ovaries
and tubes“ and is received fresh from the OR. It consists of a
uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries and tubes and it weighs 115
grams. The uterus measures 8.5 X 7.5 X 4 cm. The cervix
measures 2.5 X 2.5 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 6 cm
in length and 0.5 cm in diameter and right ovary measures 3 X 1
X 0.5 cm. The left fallopian tube measures 6'cm in length and
0.5 cm in diameter and left ovary measures

3 X 2 X 1 cm. It has a cyst measuring 1 cm in greatest
dimension and is filled with clear fluid. Sectioning through
the bilateral fallopian tubes is unremarkable. Sectioning
through the right ovary is unremarkable. The cervix is lined by
pale pink-tan epithelium and there is a firm area at the
cervical canal, which measures 1.5 X 1 X 0.5 cm. The
endometrial cavity measures 4 X 4 cm and the entire cavity is
occupied by tumor mass, which measures 4 cm in greatest
dimension. Sectioning through the myometrium reveals the tumor
invades the myometrium approximately 0.5 cm on gross
examination. The average myometrial thickness is 2.2 cm.
Sectioning through the myometrium reveals a small myoma,
measuring 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

Cassette Summary:
A1 from the frozen section,

A2 anterior cervix,

A3 posterior cervix,

A4 anterior lower uterine segment,

A5 posterior lower uterine segment,

A6 right parametrial tissue,

A7 left parametrial tissue,

A8 right ovary and fallopian tube,

A9 left fallopian tube and ovary,

A10 to A15 tumor (A13 and A14 endomyometrium to serosa, one
section).

Specimen B is labeled as "right pelvic lymph node" and it
consists of multiple fragments of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 4
X 2 X 0.5 cm. The largest node measures 2.5 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

Page 4

Page 5

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GRID CELL, SUMMARY

 

 

Printed g
F DOB
Att
ued)
m ~—
Cassette Summary:
El and 82 bisected one node,
B3 remaining tissue.
Specimen C is labeled as "right periaortic lymph node" and it
consists of fibrofatty nodular tissue, measuring 4 X 2 x 0.5 cm.
The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes; C1 and C2; C1
= bisected one node.
Specimen D is labeled as "left pelvic lymph node" and it
consists of multiple fragments of yellow-tan nodular tissue,
measuring 5 X 4 X 0.5 cm. Palpation of the fatty tissue reveals
the largest node, which measures 3 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes D1 thru D3; D1:
\, bisected one node.

Specimen E is labeled as "left periaortic lymph node“ and it
consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue, measuring 3 x 2 X 0.5 cm.
The largest node measures 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes E1 and E2,
E1=1argest node.

Microscopic Description
Microscopic Examination was performed.

 

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GR
Printed ”

F DOB
Att
RESULTED Collect D/T=

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Modifiers: (1 of 1)
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

 

CoPath Specimen

Source:
Endometrium, biopsy

Final Diagnosis

Endometrium (biopsy):

- Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, FIGO Grade I—II with focal
squamous differentiation.

- Background of complex atypical hyperplasia

***Electronicallv Signed Out ’

Clinical History
’ year-old female with PMP vaginal bleeding.

Pre Operative Diagnosis
Vaginal bleeding PMP.

Post Operative Diagnosis
Same.

Gross Description

The specimen is submitted in one part, labeled with the
patient's last name The specimen is further labeled
as "EMS" and is received in formalin fixative. The specimen
consists of fragments of hemorrhagic tissue, measuring 2.4 X 1.4
X 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in

one cassette.

Microscopic Description
Performed.

RESULTS FOR SELECTED GRID CELL, SUMMARY

 

Printed “ g
_———‘ i
F DOB
Att
RESULTED Collect D/T=

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Modifiers: (1 of 1)
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:
CoPath Specimen i

Source:

Uterus, cervix and bilateral tubes/ovaries, (Frozen Section)
Right pelvic Lymph Node, excision

Right periaortic Lymph Node, excision

Left pelvic Lymph Node, excision

Left periaortic Lymph Node, excision

EIU()U3>

Addenda/Procedures
Addendum Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

 

Addendum Final Diagnosis

There is a typographical error on final diagnosis of specimen A.
It should be corrected to read:

"Extension of myometrial invasion as 0.8cm in depth"

***E1ectronically Signed Out ‘ ***
' , M.D.
Addendum Date Ordered:

Date Complete:
Date Reported:

Addendum Final Diagnosis
Specimen E:

There is a typographical area on Final Diagnosis of Specimen E.
It should be corrected to read:
- No tumor identified in 7 lymph nodes examined (0/7).

 

***Electronically Signed Out , . *
M.D.

