um:33:an:335525353933“maméﬁ‘ﬁaiilw

||lllllllll|lllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||||||||||||||| mo , 5
IﬂHHI'I'I'I'I'I'.'.Pil.‘.‘l1l'.'.1ll'l'llﬂﬂl'l'ﬂl'l'i lilh'h'llll'illlill (VWWB, WWJM 577013
6&1: am am, 0

<97 3 I) I 7// ‘2‘

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:
A: Bile duct. distal margin, excision
-Positivefor detached fragments ofheparoceliular carcinoma.
8: Bile duct, distal margin #2, excision
~Negative for carcinoma
C: Bone, xiphoid, excision
.4301“ with Iriiiueage hemaropaiesis.
-Unremarkable cartilage and mlipase tissue.

«Negativefor carcinoma.

D: Gaiibl'adder, cholecystectomy

—Gallbladder with chronic cholecystitis and/“am! intestinal metaplasia.
-Negativefo‘r carcinoma.

E: Liver, right hepatic iobe, partial hepatectomy

-Hapatocellulur carcinoma, poorly daferemiated.

Page I of 5

-Marglns negative for carcinoma (see Comment).

-Bacltground liver with incomplete cirrhosis (stage 5 out of 6) and
hemosidemsis (patchy positive 2H4 staining in lwpatocytes and 3+/4
staining in Kupﬂer cells).

~Patlmlogt’c Stage: p722 NX {free Comment and Synaptic Report).

F: Vein, portal bifurcation, excision

-Unremarkable vein and soft tissue.
«Vegativefor carcinoma.

COMMENT: The rumor consists of a poorly differentiated carcinoma composed of malignant.
cells with coarse or vexicular chromatin occasional prominent nucleoli, and a moderate amount
of mnphiphilic cytoplasm arranged in dome sheet: or pseudoglandular structures with associated
prominent interspersed inﬂammation. There are scattered multinuclemd cells. In part B.
irmnunohistochemical stains were pctfonmd (block 310') anddemonstrate that the armor is
strongly positive for glyplcan 3. and negative for (2&7, CKZO, and hepatocytr: speciﬁc antigen
(Hep-Pm ). The histomorphalogy and immunohlstochemical proﬁle is consistent with a poorly
differentiated hcpmoceilular carcinoma. The previous outside biopsy was
reviewed in conjunction with the current case and the tumors are histological 13/ similar. The
tumor closely apymuchu‘ (less than 0.1 cm)‘ but does not involve, the pattnchymzl margin of
resection. This case was inn-adepanmcntally reviewed on

Hepatucallular Carcinoma Synoptic Report: Hepatic Rasmlon
3mm: Liver and gallbladder
Brocedm: Partial hepateclomy
'l‘zmorhsiggz (nearest dimension: 7.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 7.0 x 4‘0 cm

Iwgg Focal“); Solitary

W1 flopatocellular carcinoma
111mm: Gill: Poorly differentiated

T331352; Extension: Tumor confined to liver

Maggigg: Parenchynml Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of imagine carcinoma from closest margin: <11} mm

mm Margin: Bile duct margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

MW:
Macmocopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Not ink-ratiﬁed
Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): i’resent

my 2 of 5

Perineuml Invasion: Not identiﬁed

WW:
Primary Tumor (p’f): pTZ: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Cannot be assascd
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Add’gtigmj Egthologic Finding : The background liver shows incomplete cirrhosis with marked
portalnportal and portal-central bridging and occasional nodules (stage 526, conﬁrmed on
trichromc stain),

Standard liver reporting items:

33W Partial hepatoctomy specimen

—Stcatosis: < 1%

Sainablc Iron; Patchy 2-+/4 positivity in ltcpatocytes and patchy 3M1 positivity in Kupli'er cells
$3339.; No peﬁpoﬂal eosinophilic globules

gaggigolin; Reticoiin stain examined artd'contributory

SPECIAL STAINSJPROCEDURES: Spatial stains and/or procedures were used in the ﬁnal imcrprctation. All
stains were performed with appropriate positive and negative connois.

The immtmosraintsj reported above were devoiopcd and their pufanmnco characteristics dewrmimd by the

> . They have not been cleared or approved by the us. Food and {his
Administration. although such approval is not required for monk-speciﬁc maggots of this two. This FDA has
determined that such cicamnce is not Masai-y, This laboratory is regulated under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 ((1!th qualiﬁed to perfomt high complexity ciinical mating. Pursuant to the
requirements of CLIA. this laboratory has mbiishcd and veriﬁed lite text’s rclcvtmt Momma, speciﬁcations.
Data colloutcd for the veriﬁcation proccrs are araiiabic upon request.

 

SPECIMEMS} SUBMITTED:
A: distal margin bile duct

8: distal margin bile duct #2

C: piece oi‘xiphoid

l): gailbladdcr

ﬁt right hepatic tribe

F: portal vein bifurcation

CLINICAL HISTURY:

Liver cancer. Prior outsidc slide review dcmmmmtod likely hepatocailuiar carcinoma. Nate: Tinuc taken for
reward!

INTRAOPERATIVE CQNSULTATION (quﬂ ‘WMI
Pay 3 of 5

A: Positive for carcinoma. RM hack received item
3: Negative for carcinoma. Read bask received fl'cm

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A: The specimen (received without ﬁxative for (much section analysis. labeled with the patients name. medical
l'ttcl’ll‘d number and “dish! Margin bile duct”) consists of a single piece oftambrown ﬁbrous soft tissue measuring L6

x l.) x 0.3 cm. [”he specimen is submitted entirely far Frozen section analysis. The frozen section control is
transferred to cassette Al for germane-ms.

B: The specimen (received without ﬁxative for ﬁ'ozztt sectiun analysis, labeled with the patients name, medical
record number and “distal margin bile duct :22”) censists 0f an oriented single fragment- of tan-yellow soft tissue
measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x [.0 cm; The specimen is oriented per the surgeon with a stitch on the true margin. The

specimen is entirely submitted for ﬁremen section analysis, The frozen section central ls transferred to cassette Bl for
perrnammts.

C: The specimen (received in Formalin, labeled with the patiem'tt name. medical record number and “piece of
xiplwid“) consists nfa single piece at“ bone measuring 2.6 x 2.! x 0.6 cm with attached tan-yellow lobttlmd adipose
tiasue. The specimen is entirely submitted In cassette Cl abet decalciﬁcatien.

D: The specimen (received in formalin, labeled with the patients name. medical record number and “gallbladder?
cnnsists nt‘a choleemecmmy measuring 7.0 x 3.1 32 ll) em. The W is 5mm. tan-white and free nl' adheshms.
The hepatic bed is roughened. tan and with namely artifaet. The cystic duct measures 0.3 cm in diameter at the
margin of excision. The pliable wall thickness measures 0.3 cm on average. The lumen is ﬁlled with a small amount
0f great bile and no calculi. The mucma ts velvety and mildly bile stained. No masses or lesions are noted grossly.
Representative sections are submitted in cassette Dl.

E: The specltnen (received in formalin. labeled with the patients name, medical record number and "right hepatic
lobe“) consists of a 646 3 partial hepatectmny consisting of right lobe ramming [3.5 x 22.0 x 6.0 em. ”there is an
attached semen: of extrahepatie bile duct measuring 5.0 x- 3.0 s 2.0 cm which has been Mental per the surgeon
with a, long black all]: indicating leﬂ dun: oriﬁce and shot! stitch on elem bile chm. The when was inked during
Frozen section analysis with blue ink humming the surgical resection margin and smart ink en the capsule. A blue
«atltch has been applied at the area of possible attached diaphragm at the superior aspect cl" the specimen. The distal
bile duct margin is inked orange. The bile éuct is wrially sectioned Mm distal to proximal to reveal a markedly
diluted (1.0 cm in diameter) lumen ﬁlled with sch tamwhlte friable (tuner. extending the length ofthe bile duct up to
the lell duct oriﬁce. The tumor appears conﬁned- withln the lumen of the bile duct with no direct extension between
liver patenehyma and bile duct. The llvu is serially sectioned to reveal an ill-deﬁned whim ﬁrm mass measuring 7.5
x 7.0 x 4.0 cm extending from the superior to mid aspect of the specimen and abutting the steam and blue-inked
surfaces. Additionally, there is a cystic space measuring 2.0 x 2.0 x LO cm invthe are. underlying the diuphmgn
ﬁlled with gan‘yellow sell material. The remainder cf the. liver parencbymn is remarkable for diffuse ulnhasls
without other mm or lesions. Representative sections are submitted per mm“: summary.

Cassette Summary:

Eli}: bile duct mially sectioned from dimlto proximal (El "-9 distal)
E8; let! duct orifice with surrounding liver

£9: mm la blue surgical resection margin

E ll): mass to green capsule

El HZ: additional sections efmass

E: 33: eyelie space underlying diaphragm

Page 4 of S

£14: mass to uninvolved liver
E 1 S: uninvolved liver
E 16: additional section af man

F: The specinm (received in fomaﬂn. 33!):ch wiah the patients name. medical record number and "portal vein
biihrcntion”) consists of a single pica of white-tan to tan-brawn soﬁ (issue measuring 3.3 x 1.3 .x 05 cm. There are
no lcsions identiﬁed grossly. A repwscntalma sectim nl‘me hepatic vein is submitted in cassette F1.

(‘ONHDENTIAL REAL!" INFORMATION: Health Came infmmuion H. mm! and mime inﬁmnalinml? it is being mud on you it is

Jam: 30 unda appmvnae auﬂmdmim from me palm-or under circumstances than do not mystical Wit-rim You, ma Mimi. m

nhlima m maintain it in a we‘- scam and ‘“ ‘ mm” a f” ‘ mum: “" ‘ mm camera at as pemu‘ned by um i;
L L, . I. . »

 

 

, 1“ ' minimum V ‘ i ‘“ " cwldsuhjmtammmmiumminfmmmulaw. if
gnu have waived this upon a fbcsimle in m. plus: many the inmmly and dcsxmy the mciwd
Maximum).

Page 5 of 5

Prim: Tumnr 5m Discrepancy

HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malignancy History
Du ill/Synchronous Pn‘ma

 

 

