UUID: 31013355- 6346- IFM- 950A- 84114901515ecd
TCGA- EO- A3AU-91A- PR atc

lllllll|||lllllllllllllI||||||||||||ll|l|||||||||||| He
II llll | || ||I||||||I||| ll lllllllllll I III | ||
Ill!lllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllIll I“ "I"

Surgical Pathotogy UOI'ISUItatIOII nepuu

 

      
 

 

Patient Name: Aoceeelon e:
MRN: Service: . Colleded:
DOB: ‘ Visit #2 Received:
Gender: Location: Reporter:
HCN: Facility:

Ordering MD; '

Copy To:

Se m n

1. L:ymph-Node Riga lliac. common

2. Lymph node: Left common iliec nodes

3 Lymph node: Left pelvic lymph node

4. Lymph node: Right pelvic lymph node -
5. Uterus: Hyeteredomy- uterus. cervix. tubes & ovaries

6 Lymph node: Pelvic node left number 2

 

Diagnosis
1. Lymph-Node: Right lliac, common:

No lymph node present
Fibrofatty tissue

2. Lymph node: Left common iliac nodes:
No lymph node present
Fibrofalty tissue

3. Lymph node: Left pelvic lymph node:
Six nodes. negative for carcinoma (0/6)

4. Lymph node: Right pelvic lymph node:
One of ﬁve nodes. positive for carcinoma (1/5)

5. Uterus: Hysterectomy ~ uterus, cervix. tubes 8. ovaries:

ENDOMETRIAL CARCINOMA. ENDOMETRIOID TYPE, FlGO GRADE III with minor undifferentiated component
Depth: Outer half of myometn‘um with extension into soft tissue at lower uterine segment but not to margin
Cervix: Positive for stromal invasion by carcinoma

Lymphovascular space invasion: positive

6. Lymph node: Pelvic node left number 2:
Three nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/3)

 

” Page 1 of4

/

ICD 0 3
(tat/V W'VVM WMmJ N05 9380/3

I
31h, jM/M/WW C>Lf “ll 3/”

 

 

~ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report E—

 

S n to a
Specimen: Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Lel‘t ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube
Procedure: Simple hysterectomy
as Bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy
Other (specify): nodes
Lymph Node Sampling: Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
Performed: iliac
Specimen integrity: intact hysterectomy specimen
Tumor Site: Other. ant and post
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm
Histologic Type: Endometrioid adenocarcinome, not othenr/ise characterized
Hlstologlc Glade: FIGO grade 3 -
Myometrlal invasion: Present

Myornetrial thickness; 18 mm

50% or greater myornetrial invasion _
Involvement of Cervix: invasion of cervical stmmal connective tissue
Extent of involvement of Other Organs:

Right ovary not involved

Left ovary not involved

Right fallopian tube not involved

Left fallopian tube not involved

Lymph—Vascular invasion: Present

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2 (Ii): Tumor invades stromal connective tissue of the cervix, but does not extend
beyond uterus

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1 (llIC1): Regional lymph‘node metastasis to pelvic lymph nodes

Pelvic lymph nodes examined: 14
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 1
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 0
' Para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

 

Electronicallv verlﬂod hv:

 

eecrl o
1. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Right iliac. common" consists of two
fragments of tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm and 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.
1A— submitted in toto.

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Left common illac nodes" consists of
two fragments of soft tissue measuring 1.7 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm and 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.
ZAZB—submitted in late.

3. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Left pelvic lymph node” consists of a
single piece of unoriented fatty tissue measuring 6.6 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm received in 10% buffered fonnaiin. Within the fatty

‘ h Page2d4

 

,

‘ Surgical Pathology Consultation Report r“

tissue. multiple lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 1.0 cm to 4.4-cm. The specimen is submitted in late as
follows:

aA-SB- one lymph node bisected

30-30— one lymph node bisected

3E-3F-one lymph node serially sectioned

3Goone lymph node bisected

3H—3K-2 nodes and remainder of fatty tissue.

 

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Right pelvic lymph node" consists of a
piece of unoriented fatty tissue measuring 5.5 x 3.8 x 1.5 cm received in 10% buffered fonnalln. Vlﬁthin the fatty tissue.
multiple lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.7 cm to 3.0-cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
4A-43— one lymph node bisected.

4040- one lymph node bisected

AE-one lymph node bisected

4F—one lymph node bisected

4G4J-one node and remainder of fatty tissue.

5. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as ”Uterus: Hysterectomy-utems. cervix. tubes and
ovaries' contains a uterus. cervix, bilateral limbriated fallopian tube and bilateral ovaries received in 10% buffered
fonnalln. The uterus measures 8.4 cm Sl x.0 cm ML x 4.4 cm AP and the cervix measures 2.0 cm. in diameter with a 0.6
cm 05. The right and left fimbriated fallopian tube measure 2.3 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter and 3.0 cm in length
and 0.4 cm in diameter respectively. The right and left ovaries measure 1.3 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm and 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm
respectively. The entire specimen weighs 212 g. The out surfaces of both right and left ovaries are solid in consistency
with a yellow—tan to gray-ten appearance. Both fallopian tubes are fimbriated and otherwise grossly unremarkable. There
is a polypoid mass occupying the anterior and posterior endomeltium extending from upper to lower uterine segment near
the cervix measuring 4.5 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm in depth going into the myometrium. There is a nodule on the ectocerle
measuring 0.4 cm. The ectocervicel and endocervical mucosa are congested with some nodular areas. A well-
circumscribed nodule/ﬁbroid is noted on the anterior mid lower myometrium measuring 2.0 cm. Representative sections
are submitted as follows:

5A—53— remainder of right ovary submitted in toto.

SGremainder of right fallopian tube and right ﬁmbn‘a submitted in toto.

50-5E-remainder of left ovary submitted in toto.

5F-5G-remainder of left fallopian tube and ﬁmbna submitted in toto.

5H-5J-full transverse sections of the anterior endomyometrlum with tumor

5K-longitudlnal section of the anterior lower uterine segment with ﬁbroid

5L—6M-anterior cervix

5N-5P-full transverse sections of the posterior endomyometrium

sci—longitudinal section of the posterior lower uterine segment

5R~5S~postenor cervix

5T-posterlor right lower uterine segment with adjacent soft tissue

5U-posterior left lower uterine segment with adjacent soft tissue.

One piece of left fallopian tube. left ovary. right fallopian tube. right ovary. endometrlal ca are stored frozen.

Additional blocks: at the time of gross examination multiple cysts are noted in the right paraovarlan tissue the largest
measuring 0.6 cm and containing partly clear ﬂuid and partly gelatinous material.

5V-5AC remainder of query anterior endomyometrium submitted from superior to interior (V. X-Y. section lrisected)
SAD-SAP remainder of query posterior endomyometrtum submitted from superior to interior

5AG-5AH andomyometrium

6. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Pelvic node left number 2" consists of
multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring in aggregate 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. \Mthln the
fatty tissue, multiple lymph nodes are identified measuring from 1.4 to 2.2 cm The specimen is submitted ln toto as
follows:

6A- cne lymph node bisected

GB-GC—one lymph node bisected

6D— one lymph node bisected

6E—remainder of fatty tissue.

 

is Page30f4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report -

 

 

Page4of4

