 

 

S ecimen 5 Received

. Lymph-Node: LEFT NECK LEVEL 2

. Oral Cavity: biopsy left palate

. Oral Cavity: left tongue base

. Oral Cavity: deep margin of tongue

. Oral Cavity: revise inferior margin of tongue

. Neck: left neck contents

. Oral Cavity: left tongue, left floor mouth and palate

\IO'><.J'l-I>CJDI\Z>—L

 

Diagnosis

1. Left neck level II.

Adipose tissue with no pathologic changes.
No lymph nodes present.

2. Biopsy left palate.
Squamous mucosa with no pathologic changes.
Negative for tumor.

3. Left tongue base.
Negative for tumor.

4. Deep margin of tongue.
Negative for tumor.

5. Revise inferior margin of tongue.
Negative for tumor.

6. Left neck contents.
Twenty-five lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/25).
Submandibular gland with extensive atrophy consistent with prior radiotherapy.

7. Oral Cavity; left tongue, left floor mouth and palate.
Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.

Maximum tumor diameter 4.9 cm.

Tumor thickness 2.9 cm.

Extensive perineural invasion.

No lymphovascular invasion.

e. Extensive clear cell change.

f. Tumor is close (0.2) to the deep medial soft tissue margin. Remaining margins negative for
tumor.

9.0 s75»

Electronically

 

Clinical History
oral cancer

Gross Description
1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph-Node: Left neck level II". It

consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures 1.7 x 1.7 x 0.2 cm. No lymph nodes are
grossly identified.
1A specimen in toto

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Biopsy left palate". It
consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
for frozen section.

2A frozen section control

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Left tongue base". It
consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
for frozen section.

3A frozen section control

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Deep margin of tongue".
It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto
for frozen section.

4A frozen section control

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Revised inferior margin
of tongue". It consists of an unoriented portion of tongue measuring 2.7 x 2.7 x 1.2 cm.
5A-5D specimen serially sectioned and submitted in toto

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “Neck: left neck contents". It consists
of an unoriented left neck dissection with overall dimensions of 11.0 x 7.5 x 2.7 cm. The
sternocleidomastoid is unremarkable and measures 4.8 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm. The submandibular gland
measures 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm and is unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.6
cm are identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

6A submandibular gland

6B-6D multiple lymph nodes per block

6E two lymph nodes

6F-6K one lymph node, per block

6L multiple lymph nodes

7. The specimen is labeled the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Left tongue, left floor of mouth
and palate". It consists of an unoriented portion of left tongue with attached floor of

mouth/sublingual gland/soft palate with overall dimension of 5.5 cm SI x 4.5 cm ML x 11.5 cm AP.
The sublingual gland measures 1.7 cm SI x 1.4 cm ML x 1.7 cm AP. There is an ulcerated tumor
involving the left lateral surface of the tongue/floor of mouth. The tumor measures 2.9 cm SI x
3.2 cm ML x 4.9 cm AP. The cut surface of the tumor appears white, solid and firm. It is located:
at the supero-lateral margin, 3.2 cm from the anterior tip of tongue, 3.0 cm from the posterior
tongue margin, 0.2 cm from the medial margin, 0.3 cm from the inferior/deep margin, 0.3 cm from
the lateral floor of mouth margin, 0.2 cm from the sublingual gland and 0.4 cm from the supero-
lateral soft palate margin. All the margins of the specimen are painted black. Three pieces of
tumor and normal tongue are taken for the tissue bank. Representative sections are submitted.
7A anterior tip of tongue

7B tumor with inferior/deep margin

70 tumor with medial margin

7D tumor with sublingual gland

7E tumor with lateral floor of mouth margin
7F tumor at supero-lateral surface of tongue
7G-7H tumor

7| posterior tongue margin

7J tongue mucosa with hair-like projections

IUIC! !ecllon lla I'IOSiS

2. Biopsy Left Palate, quick section: Negative for malignancy
3. Left tongue base, quick section: Negative for malignancy

4. Deep Margin of Tongue, quick section: Negative for malignancy

 

