UUID:9E5D7033-E153 ~47M-9526-D4553113A54C

   
   

 
 

TCGA-FD-ABNS-OlA-PR Redacted
IllllllllllIll|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllil ,
IlllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Sample # Ill llllllllllllllllllll I lllllllllllllllllllllll I IIIIlIHIIIlI Ill

Gender: Male . W

DOB: W

Race: Unknown i‘iﬁwﬂjff’TLT —

Report Date: Mum?" ’7

Pathology Report:

, J ’ 5
/C’S M22 “/05 (9/990/3
Surgical Pathology Report CAM/WW {4’70 _ f ¢
mm. 5.1%; Elohim/I was 06 7

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS C 0C1: 5/441“, pagfwn “MK C 6' 7' 4/

A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection: ' W I

- Nine lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/9) , /v’/’J'

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/7). (See comment).

C. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens; cystoprostatectomy:

— Urothelial carcinoma, high grade, with extensive squamous differentiation
and

keratin production, invasive into muscularis propria.

- No lymphovascular invasion present.- Margins of resection (soft tissue,
prostatic urethra, right and left ureter),

no tumor present.

- Extensive chronic lymphoplasmacytic inﬂammatory response and follicular
hyperplasia

in the extravesical adipOse tissue.

- See pathologic parameters and comment.

- Prostate with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
- Bilateral seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia, no tumor present.

D. Urethral margin; resection:
- Segment of prostatic urethra, no tumor present

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Urothelial carcinoma with extensive squamous
differentiation
2. Grade of tumor: High grade

3. Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria, outer half
4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 7.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm
' Involving right wall, anterior wall, posterior wall and dome

5. Ureteral margins: Negative6. Distal urethral margin: Negative
7. Soft tissue margin: Negative

8. Lymph nodes: Sixteen lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/ 16)
9. pTNM: pT2b, NO, MX
Effective Q I this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging

system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the

Comment

Part BS: The sections show a lymph node with fibrosis and plasmacytic
inﬁltrate. The immunohistochemical stain Cam5.2 is positive in rare dendritic
cells.

Part C: The majority of tumor shows extensive squamous differentiation with
keratin production (99%).

xxx

[] M.D

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] M.D., PhD.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:
The patient is a year-old male with bladder cancer who undergoes
prostatectomy and ileal conduit.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymphnodes

B: Left pelvic lymphnodes

C: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens
D: Urethral margin

Gross Description:

The specimen is received in four containers, each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally designated "1. right pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm aggregate
of fibrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple tentative lymph nodes
range in size from 0.5 to 2.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as
follows:

ALAS: one node, bisected in each cassette

A6: four lymph nodes

B. The second container is additionally designated "2. left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6.5 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm aggregate
of ﬁbrofatty tissue which is dissected to reveal multiple tentative lymph nodes
range in size from 0.5 to 3.0 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as
follows:

Bl—BZ: largest node, bisected

B3: one lymph node, bisected

B4: one lymph node, bisected

BS: four lymph nodes between sponges
B6: adjacent fibrous tissue.

C. The third container is additionally designated "3. bladder, prostate,

seminal vesicles, vas deferens". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 303
gram, 14.5 x 9.5 x 3.0 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen with attached mesenteric
fat. The bladder measures 9.0 x 8,0 x 3.0 cm. The right ureteral stump

measures 0.5 cm and the left 0.3 cm. Both demonstrate patent lumina. The
prostate measures 4.5 x 4.3 x 4.0 cm. The right seminal vesicle measures 4.5 x

3.5 x 2.0 cm. The right vas deferens measures 8.5 x 1.0 cm. The left seminal
vesicles measures 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. The left vas deferens measures 4.5 x 1.0
cm. The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half
is inked black. The prostate is opened anteriorly along the urethra and
continues superiorly through the bladder in a Y-shaped incision. The prostate
is serially sectioned from apex to base to reveal a firm white 0.6 cm nodule
grossly abutting the black inked margin. The remainder of the prostate is
unremarkable. The seminal vesicles are markedly dilated and ﬁlled with a
yellow-green gelatinous fluid. The bladder demonstrates a 7.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm
fungating friable yellow—tan mass grossly involving the right wall, anterior
wall, posterior wall and the dome of the bladder. Serially sectioning reveals
tumor invasion into the muscularis propria to a depth of 3.0 cm extending to
within 0.5 cm of the inked margin. The remainder of the bladder mucosa is
tan-brown, edematous and glistening with a uniform 0.3 cm wall thickness. The
bilateral ureteral oriﬁces are identified and probe patent. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

Cl: urethral margin

C2: right ureteral margin, between sponges
C3: left ureteral margin, between sponges
C4: prostatic apical margin

C5-C11: representative prostate

C12: seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia
C13-Cl8: mass from inferior to superior
C19: right ureteral oriﬁce

C20: left ureteral orifice

C2 1 : dome

C22: anterior wall

C23: posterior wall '

C24: left wall

C25: trigone

D. The fourth container is additionally designated "4. urethral margin“.
Received fresh and placed in formalin is an unremarkable-oriented 1.5 x 1.0 x
0.5 cm portion of tissue which is focally cauterized. The specimen is serially
sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette D1.

XXX
[1, MD.

