 

UUID:6A28A650-677F-45M-BBA2-6825A191CC6E Date Printed:
TCGA-TS-A7P3-91A-PR Redacted Date Coiiected ,
lIIlHIIlHlll||||illllllii|I||||||i|l|||||i||iiIilllllllllllllll Date Received

ll
ll

ll
llH

lllllllllllll|l||||l||||||||l||||||l|
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllliiIHIIIiHHHHlI

  

Physician:
Copy to:

 

surgical Fatﬂnlayyﬂanort

039E Ida/2.0- ,
“)4 ‘ ,0

"II'II'IHII'IMH e' years Sex: Male Accession Nah-s. . _

' ' 05‘

i @ 9052/3
Clinical information I W; .
. . 96 56/5
-year-old male With mesotheiioma; Pieurectomy, PDT E . Lb NO 5
5 ' ‘ ass. 4

Final Diagnosis

1. DIAPHRAGM:

Fragments of fibroadipose tissue and striated muscte showing tool of invasive malignant mesotheiioma, biphasic type (
containing both epithelial and sarcomatoid features). rm T34, N. 5W2! MM do 9'06» 3W ,

2. FISSUHE:

Fragments oi mesotheliat

3. LEVEL 9:

A fragment of noduiar fibrous tissue showing foci of invasive maiignant mesothelioma.

One iymph node,

4. LEVEL 8:

no tumor seen.

Fragments of noduiar fibrous tissue showing foot of malignant mesothelioma.

One lymph node,

no tumor seen.

Adherent benign aiveolar lung tissue showing no evidence of invasion.

5. LEVEL 7:
One iymph node,

6. LEVEL 6:

positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma.

A fragment of nodular fibrous tissue showing foci of maiignant mesothelioma.

7. LEVEL 5:
One lymph node,

no tumor seen.

8. PHRENIC NODE:
Fibroadipose tissue and nodular fibrous tissue showing fool of maiignant mesothelioma.

9. ANTEHIOH HILAR NODE:

One lymph node,

no tumor seen,

Separate fragment of fibroadipose showing detached clusters of atypical mesotheliai cells.

to. POSTERiOR HILAR NUDE:
Two fragments of mesotheliai ceii lined fibrous tissue showing foot of malignant mesothetiorna.
Tumor appears to focally invades the adhetent underlying alveolar lung tissue.

Name:
MR

55L

cell lined fibrous tissue showing nodular foci of invasive malignant mesothelioma, biphasic type.

Page i of 5

Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received:
years Sex: Male Accession Nozll
Loo: Physician:
Copy to:

 
 

 

  

  

Surglaal P31170195] 55110]!

 

One lymph node, positive for few cells of metastatic malignant mesothelioma ( comiirmed by positive CK5/6
immunostain) .

11. ANTEFllOR lNTERCOSTAL NODE:
Fragments of nodular libroadipose tissue scant lymphoid tissue showing loci of malignant mesothelioma.

12. ANTERlOFt PEFllCARDlAL TISSUE:
Fragments of benign iibroadipose tissue and striated muscle.
Separate detached fragments of nodular fibrous tissue showing loci of malignant mesolhelioma.

13. ANTERlOR HlLAR MASS:
Fragments of nodular fibrous tissue showing loci of malignant mesothelioma.

14. ANT EREOR lNTERCOSTAL MASS:
One lymph node. positive for metastatic malignant mesothelioma.
Separate fragments of nodular ﬁbrous tissue containing malignant mesothelioma also noted.

15. POSTEHlOFl lNTERCOSTAL MODES:
One lymph node, positive tor metastatic malignant mesothelioma (tumor cells are positive for CK5/6 immunostain).

16. RADiCAL PLEURECTOMY:
Fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing nodular foci of invasive malignant mesothelioma, biphasic typeset: comment.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:
(Electronic signature)
Verification Data

Note

tmmunostains are performed with adequate controls on block lEB.Tumor cells are positive for CK5/6,Calretinin and DZ-
40( both the epithelial and sarcomatoid component). Tumor cells are negative for WT-l and C034. Combined histological
and immunological features are consistent with malignant mesothelioma,biphasic type.

See disclaimer:

Disclaimer:

The above in-vitro lHC tests may have used reagents labeled for NO (in Vitro Diagnostic Use). IUO (lnvestigational Use
Only) and/or RUO (Research Use Only) and have not been cleared or approved by the us Food and Drug
Administration. However, the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary for ASH class i tests
intended to provide pathologists with adiunctive information to assist their morphologlc evaluation. The tests using MO or
lUO reagents were developed and their performance charact ‘ ‘ vai‘dated for diagnostic use by the

Page 2 of 5

   
  

Date Printed: _
Date Collected :
Date Received:

* , tie: years Sex: Male Accession No: I
Loc.: Physician:
Copy to:

 
 

   

 

       

Surgical Pathology

l" his laboratory is
regulated under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLiA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical tests. These Class 1 ASR tests are not intended to provide diagnostic, prognostic, predictive or therapeutic
information that is not directly confirmed by routine hisiopathologic internal or external control specimens.

Gross Description
The case is received in 16 containers, each labeled with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is received in formalin designated as “Diaphragm" and consists of a 22.7 g, 6.1 x 4.3 x 3.6 cm aggregate of
multiple ragged and irregular fragments of tan-pink to tan-white, rubbery, focally friable soft tissue. The largest fragment
displays red-brown, rubbery soft tissue, grossly consistent with muscle. One of the smaller fragments displays a 1.5 x 1.4
x 1.2 cm tan-pink. bosseiated nodule, which upon sectioning reveals tan~white, friable cut surfaces. Sectioning the
remainder of the soft tissue fragments reveals local areas of tanewhite, dense cut surfaces. The nodule is submitted
entirely in cassette 1A and representative sections of the remainder of the specimen are submitted in cassettes 18 and
10.

Specimen #2 is received in formalin designated as "ﬁssure“ and consists of two tan-gray, wrinkled. markedly ragged
fragments of soft tissue measuring 8.5 and 9.1 cm in greatest dimension. Each fragment displays multiple tan-pink,
bosselated nodules ranging from 0.2 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning these nodules reveals tan—white, friable
cut surfaces. Representative sections are submitted in cassette 2A.

Specimen #3 is received in formalin designated as "Level 9" and consists of two fan-pink, nodular soft tissue fragments
measuring 0.8 and 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in into in cassette 3A.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin designated as "Level 8" and consists of three gray-black to tan—pink, nodular soft
tissue fragments measuring 0.8, 0.9 and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment is bisected and the
specimen is submitted entirely in cassette 4A.

Specimen its is received in formalin designated as "Level 7“ and consists of a 1.3 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm ian»pinl<, nodular soft
tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette 5A.

Specimen #6 is received in formalin designated as "Level 6" and consists of a 1.4 x 1.1 x 0.9 cm tan-pink, bosseiated soft
tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal tan-pink to tan~white cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in
cassette 6A.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin designated as “Level 5“ and consists of a 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.8 cm tan-gray, nodular soft
tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal gray-black to tan-gray, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted
entirely in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 is received in lorrnalin designated as “Phrenic Node“ and consists cl two grayablack to tan’pink, nodular soft
tissue fragments measuring 1.5 and 2.1 cm in greatest dimension. The larger, tan-pink soft tissue fragment has a

Name. Page 3 of 5
‘ M

 

Date Printed:

Date Collected :

Date Received:

years Sex: Male Accession No: 1

Loc.: Physician: Friec i
. Copy to:

  

 

‘ Surgical Patnalagyﬂanart I

bosseiafed appearance and is bisected to reveal tan-pink to tan»white. locally friable out surfaces. The larger, bisected
soft tissue fragment is submitted entirely in cassette 8A and the smaller, gray-black soft tissue fragment is submitted in
into in cassette 88.

Specimen #9 is received in formalin designated as "Anterior Hilar Node“ and consists of three gray-black to tan-yellow,
irregular soft tissue fragments measuring 0.3, 0.4 and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette 9A.

Specimen #i0 is received in formalin designated as "Posterior Hilar Node" and consists of two irregular gray-black soft
tissue fragments measuring 0.9 and 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette 10A.

Specimen #11 is received in formalin designated as "Anterior lntercostal Node" and consists of four gray—black, irregular
to vaguely nodular soft tissue fragments measuring 0.3, 1.7. 1.7 and 3.0 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment is
grossly consistent with a fragment of adipose tissue. Sectioning one of the 1.7 cm fragments reveals gray-black to tan~
while out surfaces (cassette 118). The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes 11A through 110, with a single soft
tissue fragment in each cassette.

Specimen #12 is received in formalin designated as ”Anterior Pericardial Tissue“ and consists of a 3.7 x 2.1 x 1.9 cm
irregular fragment of tan-yellow, coarsely lobulated. glistening adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals tan—yellow to tan-gray,
glistening cut surfaces. Also received in the specimen container is a 2.7 x 2.6 x 1.3 cm fragment of red-brown clotted
blood. No discrete masses or lesions are identified. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes 12A through 120.

Specimen #13 is received in formalin designated as "Anterior Hilar Mass" and consists of two irregular to strip-like, ragged
fragments of tan—pink to tan-yellow, locally coarsely lobulated, glistening soft tissue measuring 2.4 and 25.2 cm in greatest
dimension. The smaller fragment is bosselated and upon sectioning displays tan-white, firm cut surfaces. The larger
fragment displays three similar appearing. bosselaled nodules measuring 0.3, 0.3 and 0.7 cm in greatest dimension.
Sectioning the remainder of the specimen reveals focal tan-white, dense cut surfaces. Representative sections are

submitted in cassettes 13A through 136.

Specimen #14 is received in formalin designated as “Anterior lntercostal Mass“ and consists of three irregular and ragged
fragments of tan~gray to tan~yeliow, focally glistening soft tissue measuring 1.9, 2.4 and 3.3 cm in greatest dimension.
Each fragment displays focal tan~plnk, nodular. bosselated areas ranging from 1.2 to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension.
Sectioning within these areas reveals tan-pink to tan-white, dense, focally friable cut surfaces. Representative sections
are submitted in cassette 14A.

Specimen #15 is received in formalin designated as "Posterior intercostal Nodes“ and consists of three tan-yellow.
regular, ragged soft tissue fragments measuring 0.3, 0.4 and 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in
toto in cassette 15A.

Specimen #16 is received in formalin designated as "Radical Pleurectomy“ and consists of a 690 g, 17.0 x 14.5 x 8.8 cm
aggregate of multiple ragged and irregular fragments of tan-pink to tan-gray, wrinkled, focally glistening soft tissue, grossly
consistent with portions pleura. Each fragment is covered by multiple tan-pink. bosselated, friable nodules ranging from

Nam , Page 4- of S
MRN: '

  

years Sex: Maie

Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received: 3
Accession Nozﬂ
Physician:

Copy to:

 

 

0.13:0 3.6 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning within these areas reveais ta
remaining cut surfaces are tan-gray to tan-yellow and glistening, Representa
through 16F.

Dictatcd by:

Pathologlsds)

Na

me
M :V

Syryi-val Psi/Inlay! ﬂapart i

n~pink to tan-white, iriabie cut surfaces. The
ﬁve sections are submitted in cassettes 16A

dz MMM/ f“ ”9"

F 55
41;: F! Map/mug Mb:
WW?” "11 omPage 5 0f 5

    

(rile: in

fl! (3

Ho

Pr
HIPAA

Tumm SN!“

('25:: is
Rz‘viewer bitinls

Page 1 of 1

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05

 

 

 

 

 

on Initial Pathology Report

 

 

Study Subject ID: Person ID: N/A
Study/Site: TCGA Mesotheiioma - Age: N/A
Event: PathDiscrepancy Date of Birth:
Interviewer: Sex: M
Tumor Identifier Provided on Initiai Case Provide the tumor identifier documented on the initial case
Quality Control Form quality control form for this case.
Pathologic Diagnosis Provided Biphasic Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial

mesothelioma pathology report for this case. If the histology for this case is mixed, provide all

listed subtypes

Histologic features of the sample provided for Epithelioid Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality
TCGA, as reflected on the CQCF

Control Form completed for this case.

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form V

Specimen submitted is epitheiioid without Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis

Provide the reason for the

discrepancy between the sarcomatoid; Clinical frozen specimen reviewed on the initial pathology report for this case is
pathology report and the TCGA for diagnosis showed both epitheiioid & not consistent with the diagnosis selected on
Case Quality Control Form sarcomatoid and diagnosed as biphasic. the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.

Name of TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this
Biorepository Director case for TCGA.

