 

 

uurp:AAssra7A-a449-4c53-sc29—s7c52615r4r3
TCGA-QR-A7BD-01A-PR Redacted

Ill lllllllllllllllillllilllllllililllllIlllllllllillllllll||l| It
I” llllllillllllill ll lllllllllllllllll lllllilllllIllllllllllllll
||| llillillIllllllllll||illllIllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllll

 

_.__._«

i. Surgical Pathology;
Surgical Pathology

CASE NUMBER: »
DIAGNOSIS:

1. Tumor, aortocavei peripancreatic. excision: Paraganglioma
Lymph nodes: no tumor seen (0/3)

2. Tumor. presacrai, excision: Paraganglioma
3. Lymph node, right presecral common lilac, excision: Lymph nodes, no

tumor seen (0/7)

NOTE:

lmmunoperoxidase and in—situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology . They have not been
cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLiA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL lNFORMATlON: Brief Clinical History: _ itemaie with SDHB+

mutation, h/o cardiac

and retroperitoneai paraganigiiomes s/p exploratory laparotomy,

excision of aortacaval and pelvic retroperitoneal paraganglioma.
retroperitoneal lymphadenectomv Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 ~ Yes
Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Pro-Operative Diagnosis: retroperitoneal paraganglioma
Post—Operative

Diagnosis: same Operative Findings: ureter preserved,
well-circumscribed paragangliomas

lymph nodes with
hypervascuiar, reddish discoloration

SPEClMENS SUBMITTED: 1. TUMOR, Aorta caval pert pancreatic
2. TUMOR, Pre sacral
3. LYMPH NODES, Right pericaval common lilac

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received at Surgical Pathology are 3 freshly
submitted Specimens, each labeled with the patient‘s name, medical
record number, date of birth and further designated as:

i. “Aortocavai peripancreatic tumor with adjacent lymph nodes 2.5" is

Final Results}
Final

t raitlslciwixt Remit islemiaii -n {lieiiiiizorm'd ximt‘iiwlrv is ;\n\ii:ll%:cri by tfix.‘ tit-{éomi Front-j; M: of ii?»

 

Requested By: _ i

Do not file in Medical Record

 

 

l sigma: Pathologlu Final Results

an ovoid tan~plnk tumor nodule 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions with
attached fibroadipose tissue, containing a possible lymph node (1 cm in
greatest dimensions), overall the specimen measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 1.3
cm. The external surface is inked in black. The tumor nodule ls
bisected revealing a soft red—tan cut surface. Gross photographs are
taken. Approximately 60% of tissue from the nodule and 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2
cm of fibroadipose tissue is procured for
Approximately 0.3 cm of the tumor nodule is procured for , .- .. -
. The remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin and
submitted Pathology for permanent processing. The procurement was
performed by Received at
Surgical Pathology container is labeled with the patient‘s name,
medical record number, date of birth and further designated as
“aortocavai peripancreatlc tumor". The specimen consists of two soft
tissue fragments, in aggregate measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. Cut

surfacerevneais _ayeli9w~tan heterogeneous cut surface. The specimen

is serially sectioned and—sTJEmittédEﬁtireiy iri awnitecassettesmr
labeled as .

2. "Presacral tumor for research and perm" is a globold tan-pink soft
nodule measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. The external surface is inked in
black. it is bisected revealing a soft red-brown cut surface.
Photographs are taken. Approximately 60% of tissue of the nodule is

procured for The remainder of the specimen is placed
into formalin and submitted to for permanent processing. The
procurement was performed bv and

Received at is a specimen that consists of

soft tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x 2 x 1.0 cm. The cut surface
reveals hemorrhagic, maroon-colored, heterogeneous cut surface. The
specimen is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in 3 white
cassettes labeled as

3. “Right presacral common lilac“. The specimen consists of a
yellow‘tan ﬁbroadlpcse tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. Two
candidate lymph nodes are appreciated and submitted entirely in white
cassette labeled as " The remainder of the specimen is
serially sectioned and entirely suomitted in : .

Gross Description dictated by

No consultants
Accessioned:
Final Report Signed Out:

Criteria
OligHUSIS Discrepancy

<Resldent Signature> X“) ”’0 u.

 

    
           
 

Tumor Site
mil Disucpancy
~97?" Hum
onous

7 or

is

 

<Sign Out Dr. Sionature>

Reviewer Initials

 
 

“awe W—W Maw

t nonlethal l3 ulcer initi‘ntni'ion. tnntidsnrbxl disclosure is §,il5illl_\§‘_.’<l in. in: i7; :tozzti ”rivet; first o‘. WT:

Requested By: l , . _, . . ‘ l Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

