 

 

-r _ iﬁ' ﬁﬁ‘ﬁ“s§g Encounter Date:
Results SURGICAL PATHOLOGY -
Patient Info '—
Sex DOB
Results

 

uum:macaw-5m-4355-33c9-3asnc497anc9
TCGA-GV-AGZA-OlA-PR Redacted

an... : IlllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll
Sp #

u m n p s cian: lllllllllllllllll

S b it“ 9 h” i m HI!llNIHlllllllllllﬂlllﬂliillilllllliHmlllllll‘illllfllm'll”Hill:

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

1. Left distal ureter, excision (A) - Markedly denuded ureter.
- Negative for neoplasm.

2. Right distal ureter, excision (B) - Ureter negative for dysplasia and/or
neoplasia. ' ’

3. Right pelvic wall, biopsy (C) - Benign fibromuscular tissue with myxoid
changes.

4. Urethral margin, excision (D) - Urethra negative for dysplasia and/or
neoplasia

5. Pelvic lymph nodes, excision (E) ~ Twelve lymph nodes, negative for
carcinoma (0/12).

6. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (F) - Invasive
high-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma with focal glandular
differentiation. (See comment)

— Tumor invades muscularis propria (detrusor muscle}.

- Cystitis cystica et glandularis with mucinous metaplasia

— Ureteral, urethral and soft tissue margins of resection are negative for
tumor.

7. Prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (F) - Minute focus of
adenocarcinoma of the prostate, Gleason score 3+3=6. (See comment)
- Focal high—grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.

- Tumor is confined to the prostate.

— Seminal vesicles are negative for tumor.

- Surgical margins of resection are negative for tumor. ICD'O - 3

(ZlhdoMAhmthylﬂLStﬁ4lhﬂﬁ‘nyubé:::7
4 2 880/
MOS

comm 511:" 647*"

6. Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy . ”1%.! - %

Tumor Size (greatest dimension): 3.5 cm W 2 8

Histologic Type: Urothelial carcinoma with glandular differentia ion g/qug

Associated epithelial lesion: Cystitis cystica et glandularis with mucinous a

metaplasia

Histologic grade (Urothelial Carcinoma, WHO 2004/ISUP): High-grade
Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma: Not applicable.
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria (detrusor

Page 1 of 4

 

 

1

muscle)
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified

Pathologic Stage (TNM): pT2b No Mx

Number lymph nodes examined: 12
Number lymph nodes involved (any size): 0

7. Procedure: Radical prostatectomy with pelvic lymph node dissection
Prostate size: 4.5 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm

Prostate Weight: N/A

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma (acinar, not otherwise specified)
Gleason score: Primary 3, Secondary 3, Tertiary 0

Total Gleason Score: 6

% of 4 and/or 5: 0%

% of 3: 100%

Areas of involvement: Right anterolateral mid peripheral zone
Principal area of involvement: Right anterolateral mid peripheral zone
Focality: Unifocal

Proportion (percentage) of prostate involved by tumor: <1%
Greatest dimension of larger tumor nodule: 1 mm

Treatment effect on carcinoma: Not identified

Extraprostatic extension (EPE): Not identified

Seminal vesicles invasion (SVI): Not identified

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified

Lymph nodes: (see above)

Diameter of largest lymph node metastasis (mm): N/A

Additional Pathologic Findings:

- Benign prostatic hyperplasia

- Multifocal atrophy with acute and chronic inflammation

- Atherosclerosis of periprostatic vessels

Pathologic Stage (pTNM): pT2 N0 Mx

The diagnosis of carcinoma is supported by the failure of immunoperoxidase
staining for p63 to demonstrate basal cells in the atypical glands.

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER
This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared this

test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for
clinical use.

(Electronic—Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED

: LEFT DISTAL URETER

: RIGHT DISTAL URETER
RIGHT PELVIC WALL
URETHRAL MARGIN
PELVIC LYMPH NODE
BLADDER AND PROSTATE

'IJUIUQU’W

Page 2 of 4

 

 

Encounter Date:

CLINICAL DATA
BLADDER CANCER

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT DIAGNOSIS
A. Denuded mucosa. Negative for neoplasm

B. Negative for neoplasm
C. Fibrous adhesions, negative for neoplasm

D. Negative for neoplasm

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "left distal
ureter" is tan-brown soft tissue with a lumen measuring 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm.
It is totally submitted as FSAl.

B. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "right distal
ureter" is tan-brown soft tissue with a lumen measuring 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm.
It is totally submitted as FSBl.

C. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "right pelvic
wall" is one piece of tan—red soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. It
is totally submitted for frozen section as FSCl.

D. Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled "urethral margin"
is one piece of tan-brown soft tissue with a lumen which measures 0.8 x 0.5
x 0.3 cm. It is totally submitted for frozen section as FSDI.

E. Received in formalin labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" are multiple
fragments of yellow—tan fibroadipose tissue aggregating to 7.0 x 5.2 x 3.1
cm. Sectioning reveals multiple ovoid tan firm nodules resembling lymph
nodes ranging in size from 0.5 to 4.3 cm. The nodules are submitted as
follows: El five nodules, E2 two nodules, E3 one nodule, E4 one nodule
bisected, E5 one nodule bisected, E6-E7 one nodule sectioned, ss-slo
largest nodule sectioned.

F. Received in formalin is a specimen labeled "bladder and prostate". The
specimen consists of a urinary bladder, bilateral ureters, prostate,
attached seminal vesicles and vas deferentia. The bladder measures 7.5 x
3.0 x 5.0 cm. The exterior surface is covered by a smooth serosal lining at
the dome and fibroadipose tissue at the remaining portion. After the
bladder is opened, two exophytic tan—brown fungating masses are identified.
The first mass involves the left wall and anterior wall and measures 3.5 x+“‘*”'
3.0 x 2.5 cm. The second mass involves the right wall of the bladder and
measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm. Upon sectioning, the first mass on the left
side of the bladder grossly appears to invade into the muscular bladder
wall but not through the wall. It does not appear to involve the
perivesical adipose tissue. The second mass, located on the right side of
the bladder, does not grossly invade into the wall. The dome of the bladder
and the posterior bladder mucosa are not involved. A segment of right
ureter measures 1.7 cm in length, is patent and unremarkable. A segment of
left ureter measuring 2.7 cm in length is patent and grossly unremarkable.
The prostate measures 4.5 cm transversely, 4.0 cm anteroposteriorly, and
3.0 cm craniocaudally. The capsular surface is smooth. The gland is inked

Page 3 of 4

 

Encounter Date:

blue on the right and yellow on the left. After fixation, the capsular
surface is retracted and partially detached. The gland is sectioned from
apex to base transversely at 3 mm intervals. The cross sections do not
reveal a mass. No nodularity is present. The seminal vesicles are
unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted as follows: F1 section
of urethra, F2 random section of right ureter, F3 random section of left
ureter, F4 left wall of bladder with invasive mass, F5 left wall of bladder
deep aspect of invasive mass (deep to section F4), F6 anterior bladder with
invasive mass, F7-F8 right wall with second mass and deep inked margins, F9
dome, F10 posterior between masses, F11 trigone, F12 prostate right apex,
F13 left apex, F14 6 mm right, F15 6 mm left, F16 9 mm right anterior, F17
9 mm left anterior, F18 9 mm right posterior, F19 9 mm left posterior, F20
24 mm right inferior, F21 24 mm left inferior, F22 24 mm right posterior,
F23 24 mm left posterior, F24 right seminal vesicle, F25 left seminal
vesicle. The remainder of the prostate is submitted on per request
of‘ as follows: F 26 12 mm right anterior, F27 12 mm left anterior,
F28 12 mm right posterior, F29 12 mm left posterior, F30 15 mm anterior
right, F31 15 mm anterior left, F32 15 mm posterior right, F33 15 mm
posterior left, F34, 21 mm anterior right, F35 21 mm anterior left, F36 21
mm posterior right, F37 21 mm posterior left. Also, an additional section
of left ureter is submitted as F38.

Submitted by:
Location:
Test performed by:

Lab and Collection

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

§gR§lCAL PATHQLOGY _ - Lab and Collection Information
Result History . - -

§UR§ICAL PAleQLOGY -Order Result Histogz Report.
Result lnformation

Result Date and Time Status Provider Status

Finalresult Ordered
.Status:
This result is currently not released to
Display Fgll Result nggﬁ Dis Ia rder R

     
   
 
     
 

JgL 9:.

11““ ﬁlm‘s-r 5|“: Discus-ac]

{ﬂori-

hil is
Initials

Page 4 of 4

 

