 
  

CGA—44-3395

 

SPECIMEN

A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.

CLINICAL NOTES
Non~small cell lung cancer

Pericardial reflection node
Right upper and middle lobe
Lymph node level ll

Lymph node 4R

Lymph node 2R

Lymph node level 9

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A) Lymph node, pericardial reflection node, excision — Metastatic
non small cell carcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled ”pericardial
reflection node" are irregularly shaped fragments of tan tissue
that
measure 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm in aggregate dimension. The tissue is
entirely frozen.
B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed and inflated with
formalin labelled ”bilobe right upper and middle lobe" is

14.0 x 12.0 X 5,7 cm portion of lung which is grossly consistent
with the upper and middle lobe of the right lung. The pleural is
violaceous smooth glistening with black stippling present showing a
3.0 cm umbilication at the fissure of the middle and upper lobe.
This focus is inked and the specimen is sectioned to show a large
whitewgray firm mass which is 5.5 x 5.0 x 3.7 cm. The tumor is
contiguous with the umbilication and is also present at the base of
the middle lobe. There are staples present at this area. This
area

is inked and on sectioning shows no discrete tumor invading the
stapled tissue. The remainder of the parenchyma is red—brown and
fleshy, Few hilar nodes are grossly identified. The tumor comes
within 1.5 cm of the bronchial margin. Representative sections of

 

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

of

the specimen are submitted as follows:
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — brochial and vascular margins; 2—5 -
representative section of tumor to umbilication and normal; 6 —
representative section of tumor to base at stapled aspect of middle
lobe; 7 H tumor to bronchus; 8 — representative normal; 9—10.
possible hilar lymph node (block 10 is bisected). RS—lO

C. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"lymph node level 11” is a l x 0.5 x 0.4 cm black red
irregular soft tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one
cassette. ASHl.

D. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"lymph node 4R" are two red black pink irregular soft
tissue fragments which are 0.6 cm each in greatest dimension. The
specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l.

E. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

“lymph node 2R" are multiple pink yellow black irregular
soft to hard tissue fragments which have an aggregate measurement

2.2 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimens are entirely submitted in one
cassette. AS-l.
F. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
”lymph node level 9" is a 2 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm pink black
irregular soft tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one
cassette. AS-l. -

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated.

Primary tumor (pT): The tumor measures 5.5 cm. in dimension and is

present within less than 0.2 cm. of the bronchial margin of
excision, PT2.

Margins of resection: Invasive carcinoma is present in soft tissue

 

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

of the lung within 0.2 cm. of the bronchial margin of excision.
Direct extension of tumor: Tumor shows multifocal areas of
extension up to and focally into the pleural but is not identified
on the pleural surface.

Vessel invasion: Present.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Tumor shows involvement of hilar lymph

nodes which appears to be direct extension, although metastases can
not be excluded. Metastatic carcinoma is identified in a

pericardial reflection node, pN2.

Distant metastasis (pM): pr.

14x1, 3x5, 5x1

DIAGNOSIS

A. Lymph node, pericardial reflection node, excision ~ One lymph

node positive for metastatic carcinoma {1/1}.

B. Lung, right upper and middle lobe, excision — Invasive poorly
differentiated adenocarcinoma (see tumor characteristics in
the lung resection template in the microscopic description).

C. Lymph node, level 11, excision — One lymph node negative for

metastatic carcinoma (0/1}.

D. Lymph node, level 4R, excision — Two lymph nodes negative for

metastatic carcinoma (0/2}.

E. Lymph node, level 2R, excision — Fragments of lymph node

negative for metastatic carcinoma.

F. Lymph node, level 9, excision H One lymph node negative for

metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

 

m End Of Report ~—

 

 

 

 

E. Receivad fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
”level 5” is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. black pink tan
irregular
rubbery tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected to show a white
firm rubber nodule which is entirely submitted in one cassette.
AS—l d
F. Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin
labeled “level 4 is a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm pinkhred
irregular
soft tissue fragment which is entirely submitted in one cassette.

ASel.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. The following template applies to the left lower lobe

wedge resection:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): 1.7 cm (pTl)

Margins of resection: Uninvolved

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified
Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Regional lymph nodes (pN): See specimen E below
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
{pMX)
Other findings: None.

B. The following template applies to the left upper lobe
wedge resection:

Histologic type: Adenooarcinoma

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): 1.8 cm (pTl)

Margins of resection: Uninvolved

Direct extension of tumor: Tumor invades the visceral pleura
Venous (large Vessel) invasion: Not identified

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not identified

Lymphatic (small Vessel) invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): See specimen E below

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by this specimen
(pMX)

Other findings: None.

 

C. The level 7 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of

metastasis in one node.

D. The level 6 lymph node demonstrates two lymph nodes

with
no evidence of metastatic disease.

E. The level 5 lymph node demonstrates metastatic poorly
differentiated carcinoma involving one lymph node. The size of the

metastasis is 1.5 cm.

F. The level 4 lymph node demonstrates no evidence of

metastasis in one lymph node.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

14x2, 4x2, 3x4

DIAGNOSIS

A4 Lung, left lower lobe, wide resection:
a Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma,
margins uninvolved.

B. Lung, left upper lobe, wedge resection:
- Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma,
margins uninvolved.

C. Level 7 lymph node, resection:

1.7 cm, surgical

1.8 cm, surgical

w No evidence of metastasis to one lymph node (0/1}.

D. Level 6 lymph node, resection:

— No evidence of metastasis to two lymph nodes (0/2)-

E. Level 5 lymph node, resection:

— Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving one lymph node, size of

metastasis 1.5 cm.
F. Level 4 lymph node, resection:

— No evidence of metastasis to one node

(0/1).

 

 

