 

Surgical Pathology Report

 
 
 
   

 

0&2 ~ 0%}

CLINICAL HISTORY

eveloped left sided headache after head injury on I
On imaging, in the left medial frontal lobe there is a 5.9 om.,

ring—enhancing mass with hemorrhage, extensive edema, and extension to the

Mpus callosum. There is past history of —

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Not Given

Operation/Specimen: A: Left frontal tumor, biopsy
B: Frontal tumor
C: Marginal tissue superior gyrus

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A and B. Brain, left frontal, excisional biopsy and excision:
l. Gliosarcoma.
2. MIBHl proliferation index: 18%.

C. Brain, marginal tissue superior gyrus, excision: Glioma, infiltrative,
focal, small.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

In parts A and B there is a neoplastic glial proliferation that diffusely
infiltrates and extensively effaces cerebral tissue, and has nuclear '
anaplasia, frequent mitoses, prominent microvascular cellular proliferation
with vascular necrosis and thrombosis, and extensive areas of necrosis, some
with pseudopalisading. In part B there is also a large zone that has a
spindle cell configuration with nuclear anaplastic features.

The neoplasm is a glioblastoma with focal sarcomatoid phenotype, i.e. a
gliosarcoma.

Part B is cerebral cortex and adjacent white matter in which there is one
microscopic focal area that is sparsely infiltrated by naked neoplastic cells.

 

Page 1

 

 

 

 

 

PROCEDURES/ADDENDA
MGMT Promoter ' n
Date Ordered: Date Reported:

Interpretation

 

NEGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments
Test performed on paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA followed
by realntime PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics determined by the ”laboratory as
required by CLIA ' - regulations. as not een cleared or approved for

specific uses by the 0.8. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A

Left frontal tumor, biopsy: Atypical glial proliferation consistent with
hi h— rade lioma. Frozen section and smear preparations performed at
and results reported to the Physician of Record.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.

Received fresh from the operating room, labeled with the patient‘ s name and
MRN, are several fragments of soft tan tissue, approximately 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.4
cm in aggregate. Samples are used for frozen sections and smears. The frozen
reeldual is submitted in Al and the unfrozen tissue is submitted in A2.

   

B.

SPECIMEN: Frontal tumor.

FIXATIVE: Formalin.

GENERAL: Received is a 5.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. aggregate of irregular, gray—white
to dusky red—brown soft to rubbery focally hemorrhagic tissue fragments.
Sectioning reveals fleshy gray—white focally hemorrhagic cut surfaces.
SECTIONS: Representative sections in three cassettes Bl—B3.

C.
SPECIMEN: Marginal tissue superior gyrus.

 

 

Page 2

 

FIXATIVE: Formalin.
GENERAL: Received is a 2 x 1.5 x 1 cm. fragment of brain tissue. One aspect
is cauterized and ragged and the opposite is pink—tan glistening with

arborizing vessels. Specimen is sectioned to reveal pink—tan to graynwhite

cut surfaces.
SECTIONS: C1,C2 entirely submitted.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

 

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: In part A, the GFAP demonstrates heavy
gliofibrillogenesis by the neoplastic cells, including some ganglion—like
cells. In part B, the GFAP depicts extensive spindle cell areas that are
negative and intermingled with GFAP-positive strands. Only a small minority
{about 5%) of cells over expresses the p53 protein. The CD163 marks a large
number of cells, presumably phagocytic. With the MIB—l there is a
proliferation index of about 18% in the more active areas.

SPECIAL STAIN: The Snook's reticulum demonstrates heavy reticulin deposition
in the spindle, GFAP—negative areas.

The stains results are consistent with a high histological grade glial
neoplasm that has a sarcomatoid component.

ICD-9(s):
239.6 239.6

 

Histo Data

Part A: or, biopsy
Taken: Received: —
Stain/c Block Ordered Comment

FS H/E X l 1
H/E x 1 l
TPS H/E X l l
H/E x l 2
H/E x l 3

 

   

Part B:
Taken: Received:
Stain/c Block Comment

CD163 Vector x 1
mGFAPHDA x l
H/E x l

MGMT x l
MIBl-DA X l
NeuN x l
P5300? x 1
H/E x l
mGFAP—DA x l
H/E x 1
Retic x 1

Part C: ' ‘ superior gyru
— Page 3

uiwcnhok4h*Hrdhdk=H

 

 

 

Stain/Ont
H/E x l
H/Exl

*** End of Report ***

Block

 

Comment

 

Page 4

 

