£317) 013
UUID: CCDF3A12- C7BD- 4379- 5687- 8682AE4AF57A

TCGA- Q-T ASXP a1A- PR Reacd ted Ph(00/2/‘om harm” HAS
IIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII l:||||||l||l||l||l|l|||| II III III 3 7'5 7C¥>/C>

IIIII IIIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIII . .
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ‘5’” @A‘Z'Mj/Wé U0»

. . " €74. ‘7
L320 4/13/13

H
H
II

Diagnosis:

A: Inferior mesenteric vein lymph node, biopsy
- Benign fibroadipose tissue; no lymph node identified; no tumor
seen.

B: Adrenal gland, left, adrenalectomy

— Adrenal pheochromocytoma with atypical histologic features,
raising concern for possible malignant clinical behavior (See
Comment).

— Tumor size 3.8 x 2.9 x 2.7 cm.

- Vascular invasion identified, present at the en face vascular
resection margin (Bl).

— Tumor focally involves the peri—adrenal soft tissue resection
margin (B3).

- Focal extension of tumor into peri—adrenal adipose tissue
identified (82, 83).

Comment:

The neoplasm demonstrates multiple atypical histologic features
which have been shown to correlate with potential aggressive
biologic behavior and raise concern for possible malignant
clinical behavior. These features include the presence of
vascular invasion, capsular invasion, extension into peri—
adrenal adipose tissue, expanded large and confluent cellular
nests, profound cellular and nuclear pleomorphism, nuclear
hyperchromasia, and occasional macronucleoli. Close clinical
followup is recommended.

Special stains support the diagnosis. The tumor demonstrates
diffuse reactivity for synaptophysin and chromogranin. 3—100
highlights scattered sustentacular cells with some disruption of
the sustentacular cell network, and also shows variable moderate
staining of tumor cells. Appropriate controls are performed.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by Dr.
at

FSAl: Inferior mesenteric vein node, biopsy
— Benign adipose tissue

Drs. at
Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:
-year—old female with adrenal mass, probable pheochromocytoma.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is received is one appropriately labeled container,
received fresh for frozen section, and additionally labeled
"inferior mesenteric vein node." It holds a yellow/tan soft
tissue fragment that measures 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The fragment
is entirely frozen as FSAl,

Specimen B:

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Adrenalectomy

Side of specimen: Left

Size and weight of specimen: 6.7 x 5.3 X 2.8 cm, 47.0 grams,
structures attached to the gland

Orientation: The entire soft tissue margin is inked blue.
Tumor site: Medulla

Tumor description: Medulla, pale tan to brown, focal hemorrhagic
areas, focal necrosis. The tumor is well—circumscribed.

Tumor weight: Consists of approximately 80% of the specimen
Tumor size: 3.8 x 2.9 x 2.7 cm
Confinement/non—confinement to gland: Defer to light microscopy

Distance of tumor to surgical margin: Less than 1 mm from the
blue inked soft tissue margin.

Appearance of adrenal gland away from tumor: Grossly
unremarkable, cortex is 0.2 cm, medulla is 0.2 cm

Lymph nodes: N/A

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor is submitted
to tissue procurement foundation.

Digital picture: Not taken

Block Summary:

Inking: The entire soft tissue margin is inked blue
Bl — Vascular margin

B2 — Representative section of the tumor and normal adrenal
gland

BB—BS — Representative section of tumor, including closest
approach to the margin

B6 - Gross uninvolved adrenal gland

(kneading nw‘ﬂgmﬂ’ behavhmpo 5113M.

         
 
   

Crkzrh
[\I Ianasis
Vumor

No

  
 
 
       

HIHAA DI'U epancy .
I Hm I
7.3 i.

Renews!

