u-um- A913D73D- -BAFB- -4cca- 9
TCGA x2 A95T-e1 Bea— Fsaaatikcmza

IllIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII tad "“
II II II I IlIIIIIIllI l IIIIIIII I IIII II III'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'IIIIIIII III
M IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

COLLECTED: RECEIVED:

 

55,}; LUWNDS @5557

MM 05w
CLINICAL DATA:
Endometrial carcinoma @1367 lei/I L11

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, omentum" is a 425 g, 37 x 23 x 1.8 cm in
greatest dimension yellow, Iobulated portion of greater omentum. Serosa is tan, smooth, and
glistening with a few attached ﬁbrous adhesions. The omentum is sectioned and there are
homogeneous, yellow,

Iobulated, fatty cut surfaces. No masses or lesions are identified.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 through A5.

B) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, right para-aortic lymph
nodes" are multiple yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut surfaces
surrounding 2 lymph node candidates measuring 1.3 and 1.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Lymph node candidates are entirely submitted in cassette Bl.

C) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, left para-aortic lymph
nodes" are 3 yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut
surfaces admixed with 5 lymph node candidates ranging from 0.8 to 1.5 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted labeled: C1 - 3
individual lymph node candidates; C2 - 2 individual lymph node candidates.

D) Received fresh designated "XXX, left tube and ovary" is a
salpingo—oophorectomy specimen which includes a 3.2 x 1.5 x 1 cm ovary, a 5 cm
long x 0.9 cm in diameter fallopian tube and moderate amount of mesosalpinx.
The serosa of the ovary is tan cerebriform with no lesions identiﬁed. The
specimen is bisected to reveal white-tan cut surfaces with a single corpus
albicans. The serosa of the fallopian tube looks tan smooth and glistening with
a 1.5 cm in diameter paratubal cyst. No papillary excrescences are identified.
The fallopian tube is serially sectioned to reveal a dilated stellate lumen
measuring up to 0.3 cm. No intraluminal masses are identified. Representative
sections submitted in two cassettes. D1 - sections of ovary, normal fallopian
tube and paratubal cyst; D2 - dilated fallopian tube.

E) Received fresh designated "XXX, right tube and ovary" is a
salpingo—oophorectomy specimen which includes a 3 x 2 x 1 cm ovary and a 6 cm
long x 0.7 cm in diameter fallopian tube and scant amount of mesosalpinx. The
serosa of the ovary looks tan Iobulated with no papillary excrescences

identified. The ovary is bisected to reveal tan cut surfaces with multiple

PATIENT ID:

physiologic cysts. No masses are identified. The serosa of the fallopian tube
looks pink smooth and glistening with no papillary excrescences identified and
with a single 1 cm in diameter paratubal cyst. Fallopian tube is serially
sectioned to reveal a patent stellate lumen with no intraluminal masses
identified. The mesosalpinx is serially sectioned to reveal no masses.
Representative sections submitted in two cassettes as follows: E1 — ovary and
mesosalpinx; E2 - fallopian tube.

F) Received fresh designated "XXX, uterus" is a 365 gram, 13 x 8 x 6 cm

uterus and cervix and vaginal cuff. The serosa appears tan smooth and

glistening with no papillary excrescences or implants identified. The surgical
margin is inked blue. The cervix has a barrel-shaped appearance. The

ectocervix appears unremarkable with some erythema. The cervical 05 measures
1.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is bivalved to reveal a dilated cervical canal
measuring up to 3.5 cm in diameter. The mucosa appears tan with few Nabothian
cyst. The endometrial cavity is filled with a 7 x 4 x 3 cm hemorrhagic and
pedunculated endometrial polyp arising from the posterior uterine wall. The
uninvolved endometrium measures up to 0.1 cm and the myometrium measures 2.5 cm.
The posterior lower uterine segment has some endometrial irregularities but no
definite masses. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal an endometrial

polyp with variegated cut surfaces with areas of hemorrhage and areas of yellow
discoloration. The lesion appears to invade at least the superficial aspect of

the endometrium. The mass is also adjacent to an ill defined Iobulated white

firm mass. Representative sections submitted as follows: F1 and F2 - composite
section anterior; F1 — cervix; F2 — lower uterine segment; F3 and F4 -

composite section, anterior; F3 - endometrium and superficial myometrium; F4 -
deep myometrium; F5 - superficial endomyometrium, anterior; F6 — left
parametrium; F7, F8 - composite section; F7 - posterior cervix; F8 — posterior
lower uterine segment; F9 - posterior lower uterine segment with endometrial
thickening; F10 - F12 - composite section endometrial polyp and complete section
of posterior myometrium; F13 and F14 - composite section of white ﬁrm mass and

full section posterior myometrium; F15 - section of polyp with yellow discolored area; F16 —
right parametrium.

G) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX left external iliac

lymph nodes" are multiple yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty
tissue measuring 4.5 x 4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut
surfaces admixed with numerous lymph node candidates ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 cm.
Representative sections are submitted labeled: G1 — 1 bisected lymph node; G2 -

4 individual lymph node candidates; G3 through GS - 1 trisected lymph node.

H) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, left common iliac lymph
node" are 3 yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty tissue

measuring 2 x 1 x 0.8 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut surfaces
surrounding a 2 cm in greatest dimension lymph node. The lymph node is bisected

PATIENT ID:

and has congested, otherwise unremarkable cut surfaces. Lymph node is entirely
submitted in cassette H1.

I) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, left obturator lymph

node" is a 3.3 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm yellow, Iobulated portion of ﬁbrofatty tissue.

There are fatty cut surfaces admixed with 2 lymph node candidates measuring 0.3
and 2.8 cm in greatest dimension. Largest candidate node is marked with blue

ink and bisected. Two lymph node candidates are entirely submitted in cassette
II.

J) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, right common iliac

lymph node" are multiple yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut
surfaces admixed with 4 lymph node candidates averaging 0.4 cm in greatest
dimension. Lymph node candidates are entirely submitted in cassette 11.

K) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, right external iliac

lymph node" are multiple yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty
tissue measuring 4 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut
surfaces admixed with a few lymph node candidates ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 cm.
Representative sections are submitted labeled: K1 and K2 — 1 bisected lymph
node; K3 — 3 individual lymph node candidates; K4 - 1 trisected lymph node.

L) Received in a container of formalin labeled "XXX, right obturator lymph

nodes" are multiple yellow, Iobulated, nonoriented portions of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm in aggregate dimension. There are fatty cut surfaces
surrounding 2 lymph node candidates measuring 1 and 2 cm in greatest dimension.
Lymph node candidates are entirely submitted in cassette L1.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

F) Gross examination: Fungating neoplastic mass involving greater than half of
the myometrium ,

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

F) Uterus, total hysterectomy (365 grams):

High grade leiomyosarcoma with the following features:

1. Sarcoma predominantly involves a 7cm pedunculated polyp in the endometrial
cavity, and does not involve the lower uterine segment or cervix.

2. Sarcoma is invasive into the stalk of the polyp and the inner 1/2 of the
myometrium (slide F13)

PATIENT ID:

Mitotic ﬁgures number >20 per 10 high power fields.

Necrosis is present, <50%.

Vascular invasion is present.

6. Sarcoma is composed of areas with identifiable smooth muscle histology and
areas of high grade sarcoma without obvious histologic differentiation.

7. FNCLCC grade 3 of 3 (overall score 8 of 9): poor histologic differentiation

(3 of 3), <50% necrosis (1 of 2) and high mitotic count (3 of 3).

8. Additional findings:

3. Background inflamed endometrium with complex hyperplasia without atypia and
polyps, no carcinoma identified.

b. Cervix with inflamed microglandular hyperplasia and no neoplasm identified.
c. Parametrium with no sarcoma identified.

I-“PE”

A) Omentum, omentectomy: Fibroadipose tissue with no neoplasm identified.

B, C, G-L) Lymph nodes, as designated, excisions:

No carcinoma identiﬁed in 26 lymph nodes with reactive hyperplasia and focal
microabscess formation (slide H1), including 2 right para—aortic, 5 left
para—aortic, 6 left external iliac, 1 left common iliac, 1 left obturator, 4

right common iliac, 5 right external iliac and 2 right obturator.

D, E) Ovary and fallopian tube, left and right, bilateral
salpingo—oophorectomy:

1. Bilateral fallopian tubes with acute salpingitis; no neoplasm identiﬁed.
2. Benign paratubal cysts.

3. Bilateral ovaries with no neoplasm identified.

COMMENT:
pTNM staging does not apply to leiomyosarcoma of uterus.

Procedures used to establish the diagnosis:
Rouﬁne

Resident

Pathologist

Electronically signed

In compliance with ' regulations, the pathologist's signature on this report
indicates that the case has been personally reviewed, and the diagnosis made or

confirmed by, the Attending Pathologist. Microscopic examination was used to
arrive at the diagnosis unless indicated otherwise.

1
Criteria
h' IPAA
Prior

is
Reviewer

I34“ I‘:

 

