- , Page 1 of 3

UUID:ACSFDDGE-5564-45E4-8A37<A54GBESBGDEB
Note: If you do not see ”END OF PRiNTED REPORT" at the bottom oft TCGA‘IB'ASSQ‘W'PR RadaCtEd
WW {II IIHlIIHUHIIIHIllIII!”lllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllll

I
ll llllllllll I III I II I lllllllllllllllllllllll
__ IlllllllliiIlillllilliiIllllllllHllillllilimillllllmilmI”

 

 

 

 

CONFiDENTIAL

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Time Collected
Time Reported

Order Number Ordering Provider I604) .6

Status Finai Relevant

l f ' " .
” ”mm” W Wﬂas

Lecauon

Repart Patient Name

Demographics — 6111' : M& W

(for verification Date of Birti
purposes) Sex: F 9%) I
4/2 /3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surgical Pathology Report*****

Accession Number
Collected Date/Time
Received Date/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description

Biopsy lesion L. liver at ‘
Gallbladder at

Proximal bile duct margin at
Pancreatic margin at

. Superior mesenteric lymoh node at
Whipple's specimen at

tamarind}

Clinical Information
Pancreatic mass

 

Diagnosis

A. Liver. iLeft). Biopsy:
Benign sclerotic lesion: consistent with sclerotic hemangioma
B. Gallbladder, cholecyetectomy;
Unremarkable gallbladder with no evidence of malignancy
C. (Proximal Bile Duct Margin), Biopsy:
Benign bile duct tissue
D. Pancreas, (Margin), Biopsy:
Benign pancreatic tissue
E. Lynmh Node, (Superior Mesenteric), Excision;

One benign lymph node (01M

 

. Page 2 of 3

F. Duodenum and Head of Pancreas, Whipple Resection:
Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
measuring 2V5 cm (see synoptic xeport for details]

Electronically signed by:
".

Synoptic Report
F: Pancreas (Exocrine), Microscopic

HlSTOLOGIC TYPE:
Ductal adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
82: Moderately differentiated
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor invades ampulla of vater or sphincter of Oddi
Tumor invades duodenal wall
MARGINS:
Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Oistance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 3.0 mm
Specified margin: pancreatic
TREATMENT EFFECT (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
Not known
LYMPH~VASCULAR INVASION:
Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Present
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT2: Tumor limited to the pancreas, more than 2 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (PN):
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 9
Number involved: 0
CLINICAL HISTORY:
Not specified
COMMENTiS):
Lymph node count includes the superior mesenteric lymph node (submitted separately as
VIE") '

Gross Description

Received are specimens A t " All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled
with the patient's name. 1. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with
the Surgical Number

A. Specimen is received fresh for frozen section labelled as ”biopsy lesion left liver".

0.7 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm piece of white to yellow tissue. All frozen.

3. Specimen is received fresh tor frozen section labelled as "gallbladder" and consists
of a cholecystectomy specimen measuring 9.0 x 4.8 x 2.5 cm. The aerosol surface is
unremarkable.

On opening, the gallbladder contains thick green bile but no stones. The mucosal surface
green and velvety. Representative sections axe submitted in El.

C. Specimen is received fresh for frozen section labelled as "proximal bile duct margin“.

0.6 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm strip tan tissue. Totally frozen.

 

. Page 3 of3

D. Specimen is received fresh for frozen section labelled as "pancreatic margin".

0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm tan fragment. Totally frozen.

E. Specimen is received fresh labelled as "mesenteric lymph node" and consists of a firm
tan lymph node covered by fat which measures 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm, submitted in toto in one
cassette.

F. Specimen is received fresh labelled as "whipple's specimen" and consist of a resection
of the distal stomach, proximal duodenum and head of pancreas. The distal gastric portion
measures 2.0 cm with a circumference of 3.0 cm. It is unremarkable. The ampulla is
identified which has somewhat prominent circumferential thickening. The proximal small
bowel measures 18.0 cm in length with a uniform circumference of 5.0 cm. The head of
pancreas section measures 6.0 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm.

The resection margin is inked with blue ink. On sectioning, just deep to the ampulla is a
firm poorly defined white yellow mass measuring 2.0 x 2.5 x 2.3 cm. It is closely opposed
to the deep pancreatic margin but is not seen to extend beyond the pancreas. The
surrounding pancreas is otherwise unremarkable.

F1 « proximal margin

F2 * distal margin

F3 “ pancreatic margin
F4 ~ normal stomach

F5 ~ normal small bowel
F6—9 w pancreatic tumor
F10 — normal pancreas

F11, 12, 13 — potential lymph nodes

Frozen Section Diagnosis
A. Biopsy Lesion Left Liver:
- Benign sclerotic nodule. probable old hemangioma.
Conf # 54

C. Proximal Bile Duct Margin:
- Benign bile duct tissue.
Conf H 57

D. Pancreatic Margin:
~ Benign cauterized pancreatic tissue.
Conf # 58

Reported by:

Accessmn 1
Number

Encounter
Number

Patient Location

—- END OF PRINTED REPORT -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

