UUID: 7BDC2BSE- DBSZ- 4D92- 971R2- -CBE336A677
TCGA— DK- A3IU- -1AB OeGd

llllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllll ll
mmmm llllllllllllll l”nullllll'lllllllllll'lllllllllll'"

Ill lllllllllllllllllllIllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med_ Rec” #1 Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATIENT

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

plinical Diagnosis & Histom:
year old male with recurrent high grade T1 urothelial carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Urethral margin (fs)

2: Right distal pelvic lymph node

3: Left distal pelvic lymph node

4: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and perivesicle lymph nodes; cystoprostatectomy
5: Left distal ureter

6: Right distal ureter

 

DIAGNOSIS:
-— O , 3
1. Urethral margin; excision: / Cb . . 4,
- Benign urethra and prostate tissue. C M W LMW Ni; 5’ I .1 0/ 3
Slh- é/MIJW mu posh/aw u, i 1-K
2. Right distal pelvic lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection: W / 917/”

Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 11

 

3. Left distal pelvic lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3

 

4. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and perivesicle lymph nodes; cystoprostatectomy:
Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:
in situ component not identiﬁed

Pattern of growth of the invasive component:
infiltrating

 

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Bladder Local Invasion:
Deep half of muscularis propria

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Ureters uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved

Vascular Invasion:
Identified

Perineural invasion:
Identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting ulceration
Exhibiting foreign body reaction

Prostate:
Other See section b

Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
LN Not involved 1

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT2b (invades deep half of muscularis propria)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Tumor Type:
Adenocarcinoma
of prostate

Gieason's Grade:
Primary Gleason grade:3
Secondary Gleason gradez3
Total Gleason score:6

Tumor Location:

Involves Right posterior

Involves Left posterior

Involves Left anterior

Dominant tumor mass located in: left anterior and posterior mid
Vascular Invasion:

Not Identiﬁed

Perineural invasion:
Identified

Tumor Muiticentricity:
Muiticentric foci of invasive carcinoma are present

High Grade Prostatic Intraeplthelial Neoplasia:
Identified

Capsule:
Tumor invades into, but not beyond prostate capsule

Seminal Vesicles:

 

Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Not involved

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Prostate:
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2b (conﬁned to the prostate & capsule, involving both lobes)

 

5. Left distal ureter; excision:
- Benign ureter.

6. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Benign ureter.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description:

1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Urethral margin“, and consists of one piece of tan soft tissue measuring 2.0 x 0.8 x
0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis.

Summary of sections:
FSC -- frozen section control

2. The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "right distal pelvic lymph node", and consists of a piece of adipose tissue. The
specimen is dissected to reveal multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm to 4.1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

BLN -- bisected lymph nodes

LN1 -- lymph nodes

LN2 -— largest lymph node, serially sectioned

 

Page 3 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

3. The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "left distal pelvic lymph node", and consists of portion of adipose tissue. The
specimen is dissected to reveal multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm to 4.2 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm in greatest
dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

BLN -- bisected lymph node

LN1 -- one lymph node, serially sectioned
LN2 -- largest lymph node, serially sectioned

4. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and perivesical lymph nodes". It consists of a
bladder and prostate measuring 18.4 cm from superior to inferior, 15.0 cm laterally, and 4.6 cm from anterior to posterior. The
bladder measures 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.2 cm, the prostate measure 3.2 x 3.6 x 3.0 cm, the right seminal vesicle measures 4.1 x 1.6 x 1.1
cm, the right vas deferens measures 3.1 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter, the left seminal vesicle measures 3.1 x 1.6 x 0.7 cm,
and the left vas deferens measures 4.7 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The anterior aspect of the bladder is inked black
and the posterior blue. The right lobe of the prostate is inked green; the left is inked black. The prostatic urethral margin is shaved
and submitted. The bladder is opened along the anterior midline to reveal a tan ﬁrm tumor measuring 2.0 x 1.1 cm which is grossly
situated within the posterior wall of the bladder. The lesion lies 1.2 cm from the left ureteral oriﬁce and 1.1 cm from the right
ureteral oriﬁce. Both ureters are probe patent and measure up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is sectioned to reveal
the tumor invading the bladder wall. Extension to the inked fat is grossly not identified. The remaining bladder mucosa is pink—red
congested and focally hemorrhagic. No perivesicai lymph nodes are identified. The prostate is serially sectioned to reveal pink
tan parenchyma. Representative sections are submitted including sections from each prostatic quadrant and transition zone.
Tissue is submitted for '

Summary of sections:

UTHM -- urethral margin

RUM -- right ureter margin

LUM —- left ureter margin

L -- lesion

RUO -- right ureter oriﬁce

LUO -- left ureter oriﬁce

LP — left posterior wall

LA -- left anterior wall

RP —- right posterior wall

RA —- right anterior wall

TRI - trigone

DOM -— dome

F -- perivesical fat

RSV -- right seminal vesicle

LSV -- left seminal vesicle

RAP - right apex prostate

LAP —- left apex prostate

RAM -- right anterior mid prostate
RPM -- right posterior mid prostate
LAM —— left anterior mid prostate
LPM -- left posterior mid prostate
RAB -- right anterior base prostate
RPB -- right posterior base prostate
LAB —- left anterior base prostate
LPB —- left posterior base prostate
ADD — additional sections of prostate

5. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "left distal ureter large unclipped end margin", and consists of a 1.3 cm segment of
ureter. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
M -- margin
U — remainder of ureter

 

Page 4 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

6. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right distal ureter large unclipped end margin", and consists of a 1.3 cm segment
of ureter. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

M -— margin
U - remainder of ureter

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Urethral margin (fs)

Block Sect. Site P65
1 FSC 1

Part 2: Right distal pelvic lymph node

Block Sect. Site P65
2 BLN 2
2 LN1 3
2 LN2 3

Part 3: Left distal pelvic lymph node

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BLN 2
1 LN1 2
2 LN2 3

Part 4: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles and perivesicle lymph nodes; cystoprostatectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
ADD
DOM

TRI
UTHM

A_x_L_L._L_|...L_\_3_\_L_x_.x._\_z_\_|_s_L—L_L_LO1_A_I\I
r-r-
CC
0:
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNMNNNVNNN

 

Page 5 of 6

Part 5: Left distal ureter

Block Sect. Site
1 M
1 U

Part 6: Right distal ureter

Block Sect. Site
1 M
1 U

Intraoperative Consultation:

1. Urethral margin (fs): Benign .
Permanent diagnosis: Same.

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PCs

 

Page 6 of 6

END OF REPORT

