 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:

D. RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY (SALPINGO OOPHORECTOMY):

- Fallopian tube with high-grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma (see comment)
- Tumor size: 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm
- Tumor involves distal fallopian tube and ﬁmbria
- Adenocarcinoma invades through muscularis to involve serosal surface of fallopian

tube

- No deﬁnitive lymphovascular invasion identiﬁed

- Ovary with high grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma involving serosal surface and
parenchyma (ovary measures 3.0 x 2.5 x 2.2 cm)

- Paraovarian tissue with microscopic focus of high—grade Mullerian serous
adenocarcinoma

— Paratubai Walthard rests

F L LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY (SALPINGO OOPHORECTOMY):
- Ovary with high-grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma involving serosai surface and
parenchyma (ovary measures 4.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm)
— Paraovarian tissue with high-grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma
- Fallopian tube with paratubal cystic and solid Walthard rests, showing no evidence of
malignancy

G,L. UTERUS AND CERVIX (HYSTERECTOMY):
— High—grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma, involving uterine serosal surface and
bilateral parametrial tissue
- Atrophic endometrium
- Cervix with mild chronic inﬂammation, squamous metaplasia, and Nabothian cysts

A—C,E,H-K,M,N. OMENT UM, SUPRACOLIC OMENTUM, RIGHT GUTTER NODULE,
PELVIC SAC TUMOR, RIGHT GEROTA FASCIA TUMOR, DIAPHRAGM, LIVER [SEROSA]
TUMOR, RETROVAGINAL TUMOR, CUL—DE—SAC TUMOR, AND RECTAL TUMOR
(EXCISION):

— Metastatic high-grade Mullerian serous adenocarcinoma

COMMENT: Based on the distribution of tumor, a right fallopian tube primary is favored.
Staging information (AJCC 2002): pT3c Nx Mx, corresponding FIGO stage IIIC (peritoneal
metastases beyond pelvis more than 2 cm in greatest dimension).

HISTORY: Ovarian carcinoma

 

Page i of 5

 

PATIENT NOTIFIED OF RESULTS
DR: NURSE: DATE:

 

 

 

PATIENT:

 

MICROSCOPIC:
See diagnosis.

GROSS:

A. OMENTUM

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "omentum", received fresh in the Operating Room for intraoperative frozen
section consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a 21.0 x 8.0 x 7.0 cm portion of ﬁrm omental tissues
which has been almost entirely replaced by metastatic tumor. The external Surface of the omentutn shows plaques
of tumor. A portion of the tissue was submitted for frozen section diagnosis. On section, there are focally
hemorrhagic cystic areas with more solid friable papillary components. Representative sections submitted.

Al—AS. l, 2, 2

A4. Frozen section remnant of FS#l - i

B. SUPRACOLIC OMENTUM

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "supracoiic omentum", and received in formalin is a 13.0 x 12.0 x 3.5 cm
portion of omental fat which is partially replaced by metastatic tumor. Sectioning reveals focally hemorrhagic areas
with more friable papillary-appearing areas appearing consistent with metastatic tumor. Representative sections
submitted.

Bl—B3. l, 2, 2

C. RIGHT GUTTER NODULE

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled “right gutter nodule", and received in formalin is a 7.5 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm
portion of fat with a ﬁrm studded tumor nodule identiﬁed embedded within the fatty tissues. On section, the tumor
nodule is ﬁrm with a somewhat papillary appearance. Representative sections submitted.

Cl. 2

D. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "right tube and ovary", received fresh in the Operating Room for
intraoperative gross consultation and tissue procurement for research, and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a
salpingo-oophorectomy specimen which includes a 3.0 x 2.5 x 2.2 cm ovary with attached fallopian tube measuring
7.0 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter (proximal end) to 1.5 cm in diameter (distal end) with a ﬁmbriated end.

The serosal surface of the ovary shows small studded tumor nodules measuring up to 0.2 cm in greatest dimension.
On section the ovary has been almost entirely replaced by a well—circumscribed ﬁrm pink-tan tumor nodule
measuring 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.8 cm. Also identified is a 3.0 x i.5 x 1.5 cm ﬁrm similar-appearing tumor nodule involving
the distal iumen of the fallopian tube and adherent to the ﬁmbriated end. The proximal and mid fallopian tube
demonstrate a pinpoint lumen with no luminal obstructions or evidence of invasive tumor seen. The distal fallopian
tube lumen is obstructed by tumor. The mesa-ovarian tissues are grossly unremarkable.

A 1 x 1 x 0.3 cm portion of tumor is taken from the right ovary and fallopian tube for research.
Representative sections submitted.

Slide key:

Di, D2. Ovarian tumor - 2 each

D3. Uninvolved proximal and mid fallopian tube - 5
D4. Tumor impeding on distal fallopian tube - 3
D5. Adherent tumor to fnnbria - 4

D6. Mesa-ovarian tissues - 2

E. PELVIC SAC TUMOR

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "pelvic sac tumor“, and received in formalin is a 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm pink-
tan friable papillary lesion. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely Submitted.

E1. 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 5

PATIENT: 3-, PATH#: -

F. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "left tube and ovary", received fresh in the Operating Room for
intraoperative gross consultation and tissue procurement for research, and subsequently fixed in formalin is a
salpingo-oophorectomy specimen including a previously incised ovary measuring 4.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm with attached
fallopian tube measuring 4.5 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter with a ﬁmbriated end.

 

The external surface of the ovary is pink-tan, lobulated with small friable somewhat papillary—appearing areas seen.
The cut surface of the ovary shows pink—tan ﬁrmer more papillary-appearing tumor with smaller focal areas
containing thin-walled cysts measuring up to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. The serosal surface of the fallopian tube
appears grossly uninvolved by any invasive tumor. On section, the fallopian tube demonstrates a pinpoint lumen
with no iuminal obstructions seen. The mesovarian tissues show cautery artifact with tumor implants seen.

There is a small focal area of possible residual ovary seen. A l x l x 0.3 cm portion of tumor is taken from the left
ovary for research.

Representative sections submitted.

Slide key:

F1, F2. Ovarian tumor - 2, 3

F3, F4. Tumor to possible residual ovary - 1 each
F5. Proximal, mid and distal fallopian tube - 6
F6. Mesovarian tissues - 2

G. UTERUS

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "uterus", received fresh in the Operating Room for intraoperative gross
consultation and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a supracervical hysterectomy specimen received without attached
adnexa measuring 5.5 x 5.0 x 3.5 cm. The cervix is absent. The endometrial cavity measures 3.5 cm long x 1.5 cm
in width.

The uterus is relatively symmetric in shape. There are some dense areas of tumor deposits on the serosal surface,
with no definitive gross myometrial invasion on sectioning. No focal lesions or masses are seen within the
myometrium or endometrial cavity which is lined by thin, smooth endometrium.

Ink key:
Blue ink — anterior supracervical resection margin
Black ink - posterior supracervical resection margin

Representative sections submitted.

Slide key:

61. Anterior supracervical resection margin - l

02. Posterior supracervical resection margin - l

G3. Anterior uterine fundus - 1

G4. Anterior uterine corpus - 1

G5. Posterior uterine fundus — 1

G6. Posterior uterine corpus - 1

G7. Serosal tumor deposits, anterior corpus - 1

G8. Serosai tumor deposit, anterior lower uterine segment - 1
G9. Anterior parametrial tissue containing probable tumor deposit — multiple
610. Right parametrium and paracervical soft tissues - multiple
Gl 1. Left parametrium and paracervical soft tissues — 2

H. RIGHT GEROTA FASCIA TUMOR

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of5

PATIENT:

 

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right Gerota fascia tumor", and received in formalin is a 7.5 x 7.5 X 3.0 cm
portion of yellow adipose tissue with firm mass seen. Cut surfaces reveal metastatic tumor having a pink—tan firm
somewhat friable appearance. Representative sections submitted.

Hi. l

l. DIAPHRAGM TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "diaphragm tumor", and received in formalin are two portions of dense
fibrous tissue measuring 6.5 x 3.5 x 0.5 cm in total aggregate. Associated cautery artifact is identified on one
surface. Representative sections are submitted.

11. 3

J. LIVER TUMOR

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "liver tumor", and received in formalin is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm pink—white
firm tumor nodule. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted.

J 1. 2

K. RETROVAGINAL TUMOR

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "retrovaginal tumor", and received in formalin is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm
ragged portion of dense fibrous ﬁrm tissue. Serialiy sectioned and entirely submitted.

K1. 3

L. CERVIX
Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled "cervix", and received in formalin is an amputated cervix measuring 2.5 x
2.5 cm and excised to a depth of 1.5 cm. There is a 1.0 cm slit—like os.

The mucosal surface is smooth and unremarkable. On section, there are nabothian cysts measuring up to 0.3 cm in
greatest dimension.

The external es and endocervical canal are grossly unremarkable. No evidence of invasive tumor is seen.
Representative sections submitted.
L1. 2

M. CUL-DE-SAC TUMOR

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled ”cul-de-sac tumor", and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm
aggregate of somewhat ragged focally shaggy-appearing tissue with associated cautery artifact. Tissue is entirely
submitted.

M1. 4

N. RECTAL TUMOR

Labeled with the patient‘s name, labeled ”rectal tumor", and received in formalin are multiple pieces of dense
irregular—appearing ﬁbrous somewhat shaggy-appearing tissues together measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm in total
aggregate. Tissues are entirely submitted.

N1. Multiple

OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

A. OMENTUM (FSl):
- High-grade poorly differentiated carcinoma, compatible with mullerian primary

OPERATIVE CONSULT (GROSS):

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page it of 5

 

PATIENT:

D. RIGHT ADNEXA (GROSS):
— Ovary and fallopian tube, shows solid tumor

F. LEFT ADNEXA (GROSS):
- Ovary shows solid and cystic tumor

G. UTERUS (GROSS):
- No endometrial lesiom'mass seen. Tumor deposits are present on . . 1 5m [66

Tissue was taken for research on bilateral adnexa.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 5 of 5

 

