UUID : DFE3709F-1806-4D6E-BEdA-FBSBEEOBABFC
TCGA-SE-ASSJ-OlA-PR R

edacted
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
|||||lllllllllllll|||||||||lllllllll|llll|||||||lll|ll|ll
Illlllllllllllll|||l|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Icnvﬁ’3 ‘1 ,5
It. \ ‘ ' Milli?) 3070/}: ll,

S"“’W1.®W’*“ “3‘“ 1‘” “bis/Ir

 

 

 

lPatlent Name i (MRI: lobsters; Date [Last Edited Date I

SURGlCAL PATHOLOGY ' CASE:

Diagnosis ;
A: Pleura. right, excision: - Negative for malignancy?

' Lymph node, leVel 7, excision: — Multiple'lymph node fragments, all negative for malignancy.
:, Lymph node, level 7, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

: Lymph node, level 9. excision: - Negative for malignancy.

: Lymph node, level 8, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

: Lymph node, level 8, excision:— Negative for malignancy.

: Lymph node, level 11, excision: — Multiple lymph npde fragments all negative for malignancy.

Im'nmoopu

: Lymph node, 10R, excision: — Fibrosis and anthracjosis. - No nodal tissue identified.

l: Lung, bronchial margin, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

J: Lung, right upper lobe, excision: - Squamous cell carcinoma. moderately differentiated. - The tumor measures 4.9
cm in maximum dimension.- Pleura unlnvolVed by neoplasm. - Stapled margins negative for malignancy. - Six
parabronchial lymph nodes all negative for malignancy (0/6). Lymphovascular invasion is not identiﬁed.

K: Lymph node, level 4, excision: - Multiple lymph node fragments all negative for malignancy.

L: Lymph node, level 2, excision: — Negative for malignancy.

Clinical lnformation' - g . I _

The patient is a year old male with a history of hemoptysls, right'upper lobe mass, calcified lymph nodes.

Frozen Section Diagnosis -

H1: Lymph node, 10-R. biopsy: - No lymphoid tissue. 5 - Fibrosis.

l1: Lung, right upper lobe, bronchial margin, excision: :- No tumor seen.

J1: Lung, right upper lobe. excision: - Squamous carcinoma.

Gross Description ,

The specimen is received in 12 containers labeled with the patient’s name and medical record number.
Specimen 1 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number and "#1—
pleura— right." The specimen consist of a fragment of yellow-tan, fibroadipose tissue measuring 2.7 x 1.6 x 0.4 cm. The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassette A . , .

Specimen 2 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient’s name and medical record number and

"#2-level Vll lymph node." The specimen consist of a pink~tan fragment of lymphoid tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm.
The specimen is sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette B1.

Specimen 3 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and medical. record number and
"#3—level Vll lymph node." The specimen consist of a fragment of pink-tan lymphoid tissue measuring 2.3 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm.
The specimen is sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette C1.

Specimen 4 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient's name, medical record number and "#4-
levei lX lymph node." The specimen consist of a fragment cf tan, lymphoid tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3- cm. The,
specimen is submitted entirely in cassette D1. .«

Specimen 5 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient's name, medical record number and “#5-
level Vlll lymph node." The specimen consist of aafragment of pink-tan lymphoid tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. The
specimen is submitted entirely in cassette E1. .

Specimen 6 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number and "#6-
level Vlll lymph node." The specimen consist of a fragment of yellow-tan, lymphoid and adipose tissue measuring 1.1 x
0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette F1.

Specimen 7 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient's name, medical record number and "#7-
level Xl lymph node." The specimen consist of multiple fragments of pink and brown lymphoid tissue measuring 2.1 x 1.3
x 0.6 cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette G1.

Specimen 8 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patients name, medical record number and "#8-10
R lymph node-frozen". The specimen consist of an orange cassette labeled, A1-green H that contains a fragment of
brown~tan, soft tissue measuring_0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette H1.

Specimen 9 is received in a container of formalin labeied with the patient's name, medical record number and "#9—
right bronchial margin—frozen." The specimen consist ofian orange cassette labeled, "11" that contains fragments of yellow-
tan, soft tissue measuring 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm. The; specimen is entirely submitted in cassette [1.

Specimen 10 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient's name, medical record number and "#10-
right upper lobe.“ The specimen consist of an orange cassette labeled J1 that contains a fragment of yellow-tan soft tissue
measuring 2.3x 1.5 x 0.32cm. The specimen is resubmitted as permanent section J1. The remainder of the specimen -
consists of a lobe of lung measuring 13.5 x 11.4 x 5.8 cm that has already been opened to reveal a tan-brown tumor mass
measuring 4.9 x 3.5 x 4.2’cm. The pleura overlying the tumor is thickened with areas of retraction. Tissue from the
bronchial region is submitted in cassette J2. Shaved parenchymal stapled margin is submitted” in cassettes J3 and J4;
Sections of tumor in relation of pleura is submitted in cassettes J5-J6. Additional sections of tumor is submitted in
cassettes J7-J9. The tumbr is white—tan, yellow with areas of necrosis. Sectioning through the remainder of the lung
reveals no additional lesions, there is some pleural fibrosis and thickening near the apex of the lung. Representative
section is submitted in cassette J10. Representativa uninvdlved parenchyma is submitted in cassette J11. Fragments of
peribronchial lymph nodes are. submitted in cassette J12. The tumor is located approximately 1.1 cm from the bronchial
margin and 1.8 cm from the closest stapled margin. ‘

Specimen 11 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record number and "#11-
level lV lymph node." Thegspecimen consist of multiple fragments of pink-tan lymphoid and yellow, adipose tissue
measuring 3.1 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm in aggregate. Thespecimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes K1-K2.

Specimen 12 is received in a container of formalin labeled with the patient‘s name, madical record number and "#12“
‘ level ll lymph node." The specimen consist of a fragment of pink lymphoid and yellow, adipose tisstie measuring 1.6 x 1.2
x 0.6 cm. The specimen is sectioned and entirely Submitted in cassette L1.

Block Summary

A1 - Pleura-right.

131- Level Vlllymph node.

01- Level Vll‘lymph node.

D1— Level lX lymph node.

E1 ~ Level Vlll lymph node.

F1- Level Vlll. lymph node.

61- Level XI lymph node.

H1 - 10R lymph node.

l1- Right bronchial margin.

J1 - Right upper lobe, bronchial margin. ,
JZ- Right upper lobe. tissue from bronchialireglon.

J3—J4- Parenchymal shave margin.

J5-J6- Tumor in relation of pleura.

J7-J9- Representative sections of tumor.
J10— Region of thickened pleura.

J11— Uninvolved: parenchyma.

J12- Fragments of bronchial lymph-nodes.
K1-K2— Level iV lymph node.

L1- Level ll lymph node.

Microscopic Description
A microscopic examination has been performed.

SP Synoptic Report

SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: RUL

PROCEDURE: Lobectomy

SPECiMEN iNTEGRlTY: intact

SPECiMEN LATERALITY: Right

TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 4.9 cm

TUMOR FOCALlTY: Unifocai

HlSTOLOGlC TYPE: Squamous cell carcinoma
HlSTOLOGlC GRADE: GZ: Moderately differentiated?
VlSCERAL PLEURA iNVASlON: Not identiﬁed
TUMOR EXTENSlON: Not identiﬁed . '
BRONCHlAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
VASCULAR MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARENCHYMAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasivecarcinoma
CHEST WALL MARGIN: Not applicable '
LYMPH~VASCULAR lNVASlON: Not identiﬁed

any of the following: involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina; invades the visceral pleura; associated
with atelectasis- or obstructive pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region

REGlONAL LYMPl-t NODES (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

DlSTANT METASTASlSlpM): Not applicable

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

Ch" ll V s No /,
bi. 5:; European? -___.._ Z
.9}: y Tumor site Discrepwcy ./1
in. Disaenanq \/1
ft. :m Malignant, History . \//

 

:‘irsl/Synrhrannm minim 1
. . ‘ 1

.213: is (rirci. ):

 

      

 

\-

 

it: .icwer Initials Date Renewed.

 

- V w
l UAl‘nkD ,
W571? HR)

