UUID: 55259128- 2024-433B-A555-6323901DOE6eFd
TCGA- FD- ASCB- 01A- PR

ted
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIIIIaIIII - _ -
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImum 16D 0 3:1 m1 .4
V‘ / o 4.; V, I ‘
6a C" m a 85201.5

P9117 5H2 ,7 Bladder “was farmr Mal,
[ahead [Mall 5 41,7 g
Gender: Male

(QM/=5”? I'B/azlolif/ pasr'erior WI
Race: White €67 4

9w 12/24/1 7—

Pathology Report:

A. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:

- Four of eleven lymph nodes, positive for metastatic carcinoma (4/ 1 l).

- Largest lymph nodal tumor focus measures 16 mm, with extranodal
extension.

- Metastatic tumor includes urothelial carcinoma and small cell carcinoma
components, see comment.

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
— Twelve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 12).

C. Urinary bladder, prostate & seminal vesicle; cystoprostatectomy:

- Invasive high grade conventional urothelial carcinoma (50%) admixed with
small cell carcinoma (50%) component, invading thru the bladder wall and into
the perivesical soﬁ tissue, see pathologic parameters.

- Bladder mucosa with extensive urothelial carcinoma in situ.

- Prostate with prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason 3+4=7, with focal
extraprostatic extension, see pathologic parameters.

— Metastatic urothelial carcinoma in one of one perivesical lymph node
( l / l ).

D. Left distal ureter; dissection:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive mixed conventional urothelial carcinoma (50%) and small
cell carcinoma (50%), see comment.

2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Invasive carcinoma: solitary, 5 cm, right posterior and
lateral walls; In situ carcinoma: multifocal, dome, anterior, posterior and left
lateral walls.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (5/24), with extranodal extension.
9. pTNM: pT3b,N2,MX.

, , his Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

. Gleason Score: 3+4=7.

. Perineural Invasion: Present.

. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone left.

. Tumor Volume Estimate: 15%.

. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

. Extraprostatic Extension: Present.

. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.

. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor.
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for tumor (0/24).
12. pTNM: pT3a,N0,MX.

\OOOQOU‘c-D-UJNr—t

. . is Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Comment

The lymph node metastasis contains both urothelial and small cell carcinoma
components. The urothelial carcinoma component in the lymph node focally
exhibits micropapillary feature, which is not exhibited by the urothelial
carcinoma in the bladder.

Immunohistochemical stains performed show that the small cell carcinoma
component is diffusely and strongly positive for synaptophysin, conﬁrming the
diagnosis. Controls appropriate.

xx

[1 MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [] MD

Electronically Signed Out by U, MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old male with bladder cancer undergoing radical
cystoprostatectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph node

B: Left pelvic lymph nodes

C: Bladder, prostate & seminal vesicle
D: Left distal ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in four containers each labeled with the patient‘s
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph

node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of rubbery
lobulated yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 9 x 5.3 x 1.9 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph node candidates. Eleven lymph node candidates are identified
measuring 0.4-3.4 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates are
entirely submitted as follows:

Al: 4 lymph node candidates

A2: 2 lymph node candidates

A3-A4: One lymph node candidate, bisected, each cassette

A5-A6: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette

A7-A8: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette

A9-A11: One lymph node candidate, sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is an aggregate of lobulated
yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 7.5 x 4.0 x 1.3 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph node candidates. Multiple lymph node candidates are
identiﬁed measuring 0.2-2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph node candidates
are entirely submitted as follows:

B1: 4 lymph node candidates '

B2: 3 lymph node candidates

B3-B5: One lymph node candidate, bisected, each cassette

86-37: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette
88-89: One lymph node candidate, sectioned

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder, prostate and

seminal vesicle". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 285.4 g, 16.5 x 14

x 3.6 cm cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 7 x 6.5 x 3 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 4.4 x 4 x 3.3 cm prostate. The right seminal

vesicles measure 2.9 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm and right vas deferens measures 9 x 0,6 cm.
The left seminal vesicles measures 2.5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm and left vas deferens

measures 8 x 0.6 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.4 x 0.9 cm and is not
probe patent to the trigone. The left ureteral stump measures 2 x 0.6 cm, and
is probe patent to the tri gone.

The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is

inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The prostate is surrounded by a thin, intact membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates rubbery, pink—tan, pen-urethral modularity with no discrete
masses.

The opened bladder reveals a 5 x 4 cm ulcerated area located in the right
posterior and right lateral wall. On cut section, a ﬁrm white-tan lesion

extends through the muscularis propria into the perivesical fat with a maximum
depth of 1.2 cm and is 0.5 cm from the deep margin. The surrounding bladder
mucosa is edematous and pink-tan with a uniform 1.0 cm wall thickness. Gross
photographs are taken.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

C1: Left ureter resection margin

C2: Right ureter resection margin

C3-C4: Distal prostatic urethral margin (apex), shaved and
perpendicularly sectioned

C5-C7: Mass, deepest extent of invasion

C8: Mass and adjacent seminal vesicle (right)

C9—C10: Mass and closest approach to deep resection margin, submitted in
tandem

C1 1-C12: Additional sections of mass

C13: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome

C14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall

C15: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall

C16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa left lateral wall

C17-Cl9: Representative right lobe of prostate submitted from apex to base
C20-C22: Representative left lobe of prostate submitted from apex to base

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left distal ureter".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 1.2 cm in length by 0.7 cm in
diameter rubbery white tube-shaped structure grossly consistent with ureter.
There is 2.4 x 1.6 x 0.6 cm of attached yellow lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue.
There is a stitch on one aspect of the ureter that is not further designated.
The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

D1: Ureter, stitch side

D2: Ureter, non-stitch side

D3: Remainder of ureter

XX

[]

 
   
  
  
  

 
 

Criteria '
I.
HMO!

  

HIPﬂA Discrepancy

___.._.._—.——

Prior

     
  

devi:

   

war

 

