. . . . ""-.IW#"‘§". 4
”a?” EH“;- _: .--
_ ..I_ 1.1 J _ _- in;- a -.

,—

- - . ' -='_,. .gﬁdl" .
' ., . J; .-. '1‘ I: _..-' -. $‘ - .

I I“? Is am 43% "4" a '3'?“

F _ Hi; I_I'. 5-1

. -_ '- ﬂau'_1f.'--E:-.."'..
1.. - ””91“; '

I'l- In !:.._'1...'i'.- I?“
“I I $53». ""

*‘ﬁ . I -. .. 1.5.15 '-...:' .11 .:' I :-l -

I
I I
I . - .
.- - _. .
'\—I I

@523 m --

. '5? ..-J

 

Clinical.i Information: This is alear—old male with a lung mass.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
AFSt- Lymph node level V” lymph node, excision:- Benign lymph node tissue.— Negative for malignancy.

BFS1— Lymph node level VIII lymph node, excision:- Benign lymph node tissue-- Negative for malignancy.

CF81— Lymph node level Vlll lymph node #2, excision:— Benign lymph node tissue exhibiting focal dystrophic
calcification- Negative for malignancy.

DFS1— Soft tissue level IX lymph node F8, excision:— Benign fibrovascular connective tissue.
- Negative for malignancy. FFSi— Lymph node, IV—R, excision: — Benign lymph node tissue.
— Negative for malignancy.

GFS‘i- Right main stem tissue, biopsy:— Benign lymph node and adjacent fibrovascular connective tissue.
- Negative for malignancy.

HFSi- Tracheal material biopsy: - Benign portion of lymph node tissue and adjacent connective tissue.
— Negative for malignancy.

JFS1- Lymph node, level X, excision: - Metastatic non small cell carcinoma.

NFS1- Bronchial margin, excision:- Bronchial tissue, negative for malignancy-

OFSt- Ri ht lun ri ht upper lobectomy and right middle lobectomy:- Non small cell carcinoma, 10 x 7 x 4
Gross Description: The specimen is received in fifteen containers all labeled with the patients name, and
medical record number. The first container is received in formalin and labeled "level Vll lymph node."

Received are multiple fragments ofgray-tan tissue that measure in aggregate 3.8 x 2.4 x 0.3 cm; and entirely
submitted. The second container is received in formalin and labeled "level VIII lymph node." Received in
formalin is the frozen cassette. Per frozen section paper are multiple fragments of gray—tan tissue that measure
3.8 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm in aggregate; and entirely submittedThe third container is labeled "level Vlll lymph node #2
frozen section." Received is a 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm anthracotic appearing nodule with calcified center measuring
1.2 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The fourth container is labeled "level IV lymph node." Received is a frozen cassette and
tissue. Per frozen section paperwork, received is yellow adipose tissue and fibrosed tissue that measures 1.0
x 0.8 x 0.5 cm, and entirely submitted. The fifth container is labeled "levelX lymph node." Received is dark tan
tissue that measures 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The sixth container is labeled "level lV—R lymph node." Received is a
frozen cassette and-tissue. Per frozen section paperwork, received is a 1.5 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm aggregate of gray
tan tissue. The seventh container is labeled "right main stem tissue." Received is a frozen cassette and tissue-
Per frozen form, received are two pieces of tan yellow tissue each measuring 0.8 cm. The eighth container is
labeled "tracheal material." Per frozen section paperwork, received is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm piece of tan tissue.
The ninth container is labeled "level Xlll lymph node." Received are two dark tan fragments of tissue, the
largest fragment measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The smaller fragment measures 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.3 cm. The tenth
container is labeled "level X-R lymph node." Received is a frozen cassette and tissue. Per frozen section
form, received is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.7 cm tan yellow cut surface. The eleventh container is labeled "level XII lymph
node." Received are two fragments of tan tissue. The larger fragment measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The
smaller fragment measures 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The twelfth container is labeled "level X! lymph node."

Received is a fragment of black and tan tissue that measures 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The thirteenth container is
labeled "level VII lymph node." Received is a tan and brown fragment of tissue that measures 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.5
cm. The fourteenth container is labeled "bronchial margin." Received is a frozen cassette and tissue within.
Per frozen section form, received is 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm piece of curled rubbery tissue, that is entirely submitted
after removal of staples. The fifteenth container is labeled "right upper lobe and right middle lobe." Received is
a frozen cassette and tissue which consists of tan piece of tissue that measures 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm, as well as
the upper and middle right lobe. Per frozen section form, received is a 10 x 7 x 4 cm tumor and a 20 x 13 x 5
cm, right upper lobe lobectomy by right middle lobectomy (surface defect of 7 x 8 cm) where tumor was cut

)pﬁfg Z mfg

prior to receipt in frozen section room. The external surface will be inked green. A stapled margin is noted.
Sectioning reveals significant transudate versus exudate. Material is tan colored foamy fluid. The 10 cm tumor

appears to encase the bronchioles and comes to within 1 mm of the visceral leura but does not rotrude
through. No other foci are noted. #

Block Summary
A1— Frozen section level VII lymph node
B1“ Level VIII lymph node entirely submitted
C1~ Frozen section tissue level VIII lymph node
C2- Remainder of tissue level VIII lymph node
D1— Frozen section level IX lymph node entirely submitted
E1 - Level X lymph node entirely submitted and bisected
F1— Frozen section level IV—R lymph node entirely submitted
G1— Right main stem tissue frozen section entirely submitted
H1— Frozen section tracheal material entirely submitted
l1— Level XIII lymph node - final entirely submitted
J1— Frozen section of level X-R lymph node entirely submitted
K1- Level XII lymph node - both the smaller and larger fragments have been bisected, entirely submitted
L1- Level XI lymph node bisected and entirely submitted
M1— Level VII lymph node bisected and entirely submitted
N1- Frozen section of bronchial margin entirely submitted
01— Frozen section from upper and middle lobe
02-04 Sections through tumor at visceral pleural margin
05-07 Representative sections through tumor
08—09 Representative sections of normal lung parenchyma

Microscopic Description: A microscopic examination has been performe—

SP Synoptic Report 0: horax Lung

SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: right Upper and middle

PROCEDURE: Lobectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Intact

SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Right

TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe. Middle lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Greatestdimension: 10 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal

HIS OLOG C TYPE: Squamous cell carcinoma

HIS"OLOG C GRADE: G3: Poorly differentiated

VISCERAL DLEURA INVASION: Not identified

BRONCHIA- MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Present

LYMPH NODES: Present

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT3: Tumor 3* 7 cm in greatest dimension; or Tumor of any size that directly invades
any of the following: chest wall (including superior sulcus tumors), diaphragm, phrenic nerve, mediastinal
pleura, parietal pericardium; or Tumor in the main bronchus s: 2 cm distal to the carina but w/o involvement of

the carina; or Tumor with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis of the entire lung; or Tumors with separate
tumor nodule(s) in same lobe

 

 

 

 

 

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pN1: Metastasis in ipsilateral peribronchial and/or ipsilateral hilar lymph
nodes, and intrapulmonary nodes, including involvement b direct extension

 

