UUID : “545153-71564KB-BCFI-BBCBBEGEIBW
TCGA-CQ- A4CG-01A-PR Rediﬁﬂted

IllIllllllHllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIllllllllllllllllllllllllll
I ll lHllHlHlllIllllll |llllllllllllllllllllllll Ill
m“WI:glllllllllllllllllllHIIIHIlIllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Department of Patn0logy

 

Patient Name-

 
 

MRN.
DOB: Visit #:
Gender: Location:

HCN
Ordering MD= _

Facility:

Copath #—

Service: Otolaryngology Collected:
- Resul ted :

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

it

how\10’\U'lb3?nLA-’I\)l--l

Addended *

ch: Left neck - level 13
Neck: Left neck level 11a

. Thyroid: Possible pyramidal lobe of thyroid
. Oral Cavity: Left cheek deep margin,
. Oral Cavity: Lateral lip margin‘

Oral Cavity: Palatal marginf

. Oral Cavity: Posterior cheek margin__

Iwao—j

QaMuKhukﬂpﬁummva olﬂ N05

VOW/3

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED Sih' W mucus“. (1 com

ézgqﬁy

Oral Cavity: Left partial maxillectomy and left cheek

. Neck: Left neck level I to IV

DIAGNOSIS

00

1. Left neck; level IB:

One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

. Left neck; level IIA:
One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

"Possible pyramidal lobe of thyroid":
Thyroid tissue, negative for malignancy.

. Left cheek deep margin:

Negative for malignancy.

. Lateral lip margin:

Negative for malignancy.

. Palatal margin:

Negative for malignancy.

. Posterior cheek margin:

Negative for malignancy.

. Left partial maxillectomy and left cheek:

— Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.

Status: supplemental Page: 1 of

Patient Name- Copath #—
Otola Collected:

  

MRN: Service: ology

DOB: Visit #: & Resulted:
Gender: , Location:

HCN- Facility:

ordéring MD: «—

 

a. The tumour involves the buccal mucosa.

b. Maximum tumour dimension 4.5 cm.

c Maximum tumour thickness 0.7 cm.

d. Positive for perineural invasion.

e. Negative for lymphovascular invasion.

f. Tumour is very close (k 0.1 cm) to anterior buccal as well as
inferior and posterior buccal (0.3 cm) margins.

g. Bone and bone margins are pending decalcification and will be reported
in an addendum.

9. Left neck; level I to IV:
— Fourteen lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/14).
— Submandibular gland, negative for malignancy.

COMMENT
The T—stage in the synoptic report is deferred pending bone sections.

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen: Buccal mucosa (inner cheek)
Received: Fresh
Procedure: Maxillectomy: Left partial
maxillectomy and left cheek
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 5.2 cm

Additional dimension: 4.0 cm
Additional dimension: 2.5 cm

Specimen Laterality: Left

Tumor Site: Buccal mucosa (inner cheek)
Tumor Focality: Single focus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm

Additional dimension: 3.9 cm
Additional dimension: 0.7 cm
Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional

Histologic Grade:
Margins:
carcinoma

cm

Status: supplemental

G2: Moderately differentiated
Margins uninvolved by invasive

Distance from closest margin: 0.08
Margin(s): Anterior buccal margin.

Margins uninvolved by carcinoma in

Page: 2 of 6

 

MRN:
DOB:
Gender:

HCN:
ordering MD: —-

Patient Name :—

Copath #
Service: Otola ology Collected:
Visit #: ﬁ ’ Resulted:

Location:
Facility:

 

situ (includes moderate and severe dysplasia)

Lymph-Vascular Invasion:
Perineural Invasion:
Lymph Nodes,
TNM Descriptors:

Primary Tumor (pT):
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
metastasis

examined: 16

involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM):

Extranodal Extension:

Distance from closest margin: 0.7 cm
Margin(s): Anterior margin of lip.
Not identified
Present
Not identified
Not applicable
pTX: Cannot be assessed
pNO: No regional lymph node

Number of regional lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes

Not applicable

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

___,_....._.___.....____——..._...__....__.____

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY.

CLINICAL HISTORY
cancer left buccal cavity

__..___—______..____—~—.._.—_

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "left
neck, levellB", contains a tan fatty tissue fragment measuring 1.8 x 1.4
x 0.6 cm which is received in 10% neutral buffered formalin.

1A -— specimen bisected and submitted in toto

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient’s name and as "left
neck, level 2A", contains two tan fatty tissue fragments measuring 0.5 x
0.4 x 0.4—cm and 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm received in 10% neutral buffered
formalin.

2A —~ specimen submitted in toto

Status: supplemental Page: 3 of

 

Patient Name_ ’ Copath #:— ,
MRN: — Service: Otolaryn ology Collected:

DOB: _ s Visit #: A Resulted:

Gender :‘ Location :

HCN :’ Facility:
Ordering MD:—

 

3. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"possible pyramidal lobe of thyroid", contains a tan tiny tissue fragment
measuring 1.9 x 0.6 x 0.4—cm which is received in 10% neutral buffered
formalin.

3A -- specimen submitted in toto.

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient’s name and as "left
cheek deep margin", contains a single tan tissue fragment measuring 2.5 x
0.5 x 0.5 cm which is received fresh. The specimen is submitted for
quick section and further submitted for permanent processing.

4A —— specimen submitted in toto.

5. The specimen container labeled with the-patient’s name and as "lateral
lip margin", contains a single tan tissue fragment measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x
0.4—cm which is received fresh. The specimen is submitted for quick
section and further submitted for permanent processing.

5A —— specimen submitted in toto.

6. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "palatal
margin", contains a tan tissue fragment measuring 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm
which is received fresh. The specimen is submitted for quick section and
further submitted for permanent processing.

6A ~— specimen submitted in toto.

7. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as
"posterior cheek margin", contains a tan tissue fragment which is 0.7 x
0.6 x 0.3 cm which is received fresh. The specimen is submitted for
quick section further submitted for permanent processing.

7A —— specimen submitted in toto.

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as "left partial
maxillectomy and left cheek". It consists of a left partial maxillectomy
and left cheek measuring 5.2 AP x 4.0 cm SI X 2.5 cm ML. It includes a
portion of maxillary bone and medial maxillary sinus with no teeth
measuring 0.8 cm SI x 2.1 cm ML x 4.0cm AP. There is a fragment of lip
on the anterior margin measuring 1.5 cm SI x 1.0 cm ML x 1.5 cm AP. The
maxillary sinus measures 2.0 x 1.0 cm. There is a tan nodular tumor
arising in the buccal mucosa extending to the junction of the buccal and
gingival mucosa. The tumor measures 4.5 AP x 3.9 SI x 0.7 ML cm. The
tumor is tan nodular and slightly friable. There is no grossly obvious
involvement of bone by the tumour. The tumor is located at 0.2 cm from

Status: supplemental Page: 4 of 6

 

 
  

Patient Nane- .. Copath #
MRN: Service: Otolaryngology Collected:

Visit #: — Resulted:
Gender: Location:
Facility:

  

Ordering MD:

 

the closest deep soft tissue margin of the buccal mucosa. Remaining
margins are as follows: Anterior buccal margin 0.5-cm, posterior buccal
margin 0.4—cm, inferior buccal margin 0.3 cm, superior gingival margin
1.0—cm, anterior lip margin 1.4-cm. The excision margin is painted with
Silver nitrate. The specimen is sketched on the requisition. Tissue is
submitted frozen. Representative sections are submitted.

8A -— anterior buccal margin with lesion

BB ~v inferior buccal margin with lesion

8C —— posterior buccal margin with lesion

8D —— superior gingival margin with lesion

83 —— anterior margin of lip with lesion

8F —~ en face excision margin of maxillary sinus following decalcification
8G 8H —— en face excision margin of maxillary bone following
decalcification

BI —— section of mass with maxillary bone following decalcification.

9. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "left neck
level 1 to 4". It consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring
12-cm SI x 6.5 cm AP x 2.0 cm is received in 10% neutral buffered
formalin. Orientation is grossly obvious.

Level 1 reveals the presence of a submandibular gland measuring 3.0 x 3.0
x 1.5 cm which has an unremarkable external and cut surface as well as 3

tan fatty lymph nodes measuring from 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.5cm up to 2.0 x 1.0 x

0.8 cm which have a tan fatty cut surface.

9A —— section of submandibular gland

9E ——9D —— a single lymph node bisected in each block

Level 2 reveals a single tan lymph node measuring 0.7 x 0.5 to 0.4 cm.
9E —— a single lymph node.

Level 3 reveals the presence of 5 tan lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 x
0.4 x 0.3cm up to 2.5 x 1.2 x 1.0Cm, sectioning reveals a tan fatty cut

surface.
9F -- 9 I -— a single lymph node bisected in each block
9J —— a single lymph node

Level 4 reveals the presence of 5 tan lymph nodes measuring 0.6 x 0.2 x
0.3cm up to 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5-cm, sectioning reveals a tan fatty cut surface

Status: supplemental Page: 5 of 6

 

  
 

Patient Name- Copath #:

MRN: ( Service: Otolaryngology Collected:
DOB: Visit #: - Resulted:
GenderQI location:

HCN:~ Facility:

Ordering MD: -

 

9K ——9L —— a single lymph node bisected in each block
9M -— multiple individual lymph nodes.

QUICK SECTION
4. Negative for carcinoma
5. Negative for carcinoma. Focal dysplasia present.

6. Negative for carcinoma

7. Negative for carcinoma
Reported to

Addendum Status: Signed Out
Date Reported:

Addendum Diagnosis
8. Left partial maxillectomy (bone sections):
— There is no invasion of bone or involvement of the bone margins.

Addendum Comment
The tumour is a pT3 based on tumour size and lack of bone invasion.

Status: supplemental Page: 6 of 6

Tumol Site

Ian I:

{ex/Sewer Revuewed'

 

