 

e

%

UUID: 4CDD4632- 8977- 4397- BAES- 8442F1D9319eAd

TCGA- DK- A2I6- 01A- PR

 

PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient Name: Accession #:
Med_ Rec. 1;; Date of Procedure:
DOB: i Location: Date of Receipt:
Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:
Ref. Physician: Account #2
Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATlENT

Additional Copy to:

Rel. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:

I male with primary T2 high grade TCC involving right hemitrigone with right hydronephrosis.

Specimens Submitted:

1: SP: Bladder, seminal vesicle prostate and perivesical nodes, radicalcystoprostateclomy

woowcnpuncoro

:SP: Vas deferens right resection

:SP: Vas deferens left resection

: SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision

' SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision

: SP: Fat, anterior prostate, resection

: SP: Soft tissue, left anterior abdominal wall, resection
: SP: Ureter, left, excisiion.

: SP: Ureter, right, excision

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.
a.

SP: Bladder, seminal vesicle, prostate and perivesical nodes, radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:

High grade
Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component: / C D ’ a ’ ‘3

Flat (in situ carcinoma) a \ W, W 4 K (”C ”,1 flag/3
Pattern of gromntpaftitrl‘: Invasive component: 52+“ 5/ I 5 . ”21% C 67- 0

Tumor Multicentricity: '
Not identiﬁed d/a-rﬂ

Bladder Local Invasion:
Deep half of muscularis propria

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
The right ureter shows focal marked atypia at the margin of resection.

Vacular Invasion:

 

. Cr Iter i: Ves No
Identlﬁed DI [no siDsc m pan :y t
Pr'ma_-___/rTuI'I oSIeDrphy 1’

 

 

 

Perineural Invasion:

 

 

 

Identiﬁed

 

Surgical Margins:
The right ureter shows focal marked atypia at the margin of resection.

 

 

Page 1 of 6

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn's nests. cystitis cystica, cystitis glandularis)

 

Prostate:
Other See separate form

Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
LN Not involved 0/1

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
p72!) (invadesde’ep haif'of‘njygmicdspropriair

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

b.
Tumor Type: ,
“Adenocarcinoma
Gleason's Grade?” " ' :
Primary Gleason grade:3
Secondary Gleason grade:4
Total Gleason score:7

Tumor Location:
Involves Right anterior
Involves Left posterior
Involves Left anterior

Vascular Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

@ Perineural Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Multicentricity:
Multicentric foci of invasive carcinoma are present

High Grade Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia:
Not Identiﬁed

Capsule:
Tumor conﬁned to prostate

Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Prostate:
Unremarkable

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2b (conﬁned to the prostate & capsule. involving both lobes)

 

2. SP: Vas deferens. right, resection

(a Segment of benign vas deferens.

 

Page 2 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

3. SP: Vas deferens. left, resection
Segment of benign vas deferens.

4. SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision
Lymph Nodes:
Number of nodes examined:8
Number of metastatic nodes:0

 

5. SP: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision
Lymph Nodes:
Number of nodes examined221
Number of metastatic nodes:1
The largest metastatic node is 0.7cm
Perinodal (extracapsular) extension not identiﬁed

 

6. SP: Fat, anterior prostate, resection
One benign lymph node( 0/1 ).

7. SP: Soft tissue, left anterior abdominal wall, resection
Benign adipose tissue.

8. SP: Ureter, left, excisiion, .
Segment of benign ureter.

9. SP: Ureter, right, excision
Segment of benign ureter.

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out "'

 

Gross Descrigtlon:

4

1) The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Bladder. Seminal Vesicle, Prostate and Perivesical Nodes". It consists of a
bladder measuring 9.5 x 8 x 2 cm and a prostate measuring 5 x 3 x 2.5 cm. Overall the specimen measures 23 x 15 x 3.8 cm.
The bladder is opened anterioriy to reveal a round, ﬁrm, exophytic mass on the right aspect of the trigone measuring 3 x 2 x 1 cm.
The rest of the mucosa is markedly edematous showing prominent trabeculation. "The”tﬁmo‘r'is compressTng on the right ureteral
oriﬁce and the right ureter is markedlu dilated ( 04 cm). Sectioning of the tumor reveals a gray-tan, homogeneous, ﬁrm,
well-delineated cut surface. Grossly, the tumor does not inﬁltrate through the muscular wall and measures 1.8 cm in maximum
thickness. Sectioning the prostate reveals no gross pathologic abnormalities. Representative sections are submitted. The
perivesical fat is dissected in searched for perivesical lymph nodes which are not seen grossly. Tissue is submitted for TPS.
Photographs are taken.

Summary of Sections:

UM — urethral margin

URM — ureteral margin (green ink on right ureter)
T — tumor

TR - trigone

LUO — left ureteral oriﬁce

PW — posterior wall

AW — anterior wall

RW - right wall

LW - left wall

 

Page 3 of 6

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DO — dome

AA — anterior apex, ( ﬁrst block from the right)
AP - posterior apex

AM - anterior mid

PM - posterior mid portion of the prostate
AB — anterior base

PB — psoterior base

RSV — right seminal vesicle

LSV - left seminal vesicle

PVLN - perivesical lymph nodes

PA - posterior apex

2) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Right Vas Deferens". It consists of a vas deferens measuring 2 cm in
length and 0.2 cm in diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
U - undesignated

3) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Left Vas Deferens". It consists of a vas deferens measuring 1.7 cm in
length and 0.2 cm in diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
U - undesignated

4) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes". It consists of an irregular fragment of adipose
tissue measuring 6 x 3.5 x 1 cm in aggregate. Multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
BLN - bisected lymph node
MLN — multiple lymph nodes

5) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Right Pelvic Lymph Nodes". It consists of multiple fragments of yellow-tan
adipose tissue measuring 3.5 x 5 x 1.8 cm in aggregate. Multiple lymph nodes are dissected ranging in size from 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1
cm to 2 x 1 x 0.7 cm. The largest lymph node is bisected. All lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of Sections:
BLN - bisected lymph node
LN - lymph nodes

6) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Anterior Prostate Fat". it consists of a fragment of yellow-tan adipose
tissue measuring 3 x 2 x 1 cm. Presumably one lymph node is dissected measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. The lymph node and the
remaining tissue are entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
LN - lymph nodes
U - undesignated

7) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Left Anterior Abdominal Wall Fat". It consists of two fragments of adipose
tissue measuring 3 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm in aggregate. Sectioning through the tissue reveals no gross pathologic abnormalities. The
specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:

 

Page 4 of 6

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

U - undesignated

8) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Left Ureter (clip on the most distal end)". it consists of a piece of pink-tan
and white-tan tissue measuring 1.5 x 1 x 0.8 cm. One side of the tissue is oriented with a clip at te distal end of the ureter.
Sectioning of the tissue reveals a white-tan, tube-like structure that grossly shows no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormalities. The
specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:

DE — distal end of ureter

PE - proximal end of ureter
M — mid portion of the tissue

9) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “Right Uretei”. it consists of a ureter with surrounding adipose tissue with
clip on distal end, measuring 2 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The specimen is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:

DM - distal margin

PM -proximal margin

SS — serially sectioned ureter

Summag of Sections:

Part 1: SP: Bladder, seminal vesicle, prostate and perivesical nodes, radical cystoprostatectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
ab
am
at?
aw
do
lsv
luo
Iw
pa
pb
pm
pvln
pw
rsv
rvv

t

tr
um
urm

A.)_l.b.A—.I_I_INNN—I_|_L—l—\NNN
A—l—LA—k—l—L—lNNN—l—L‘A-LNNN

Part 2: SP: Vas deferens, right, resection (ti)

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 u 7

Part 3: SP: Vas deferens, left, resection (ti)

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 u 5

Part 4: SP: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision (tl)

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 bin 6

 

Page 5 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
min 4

SP: Lymph nodes. right pelvic, excision

Sect. Site PCs
bin 1
In 6

SP: Fat, anterior prostate, resection (ti)

Sect. Site PCs
In 1
u 1

SP: Soft tissue, left anterior abdominal wall, resection ’

Sect. Site PCs
u 2

SP: Ureter, left, excisilon,

Sect. Site PCs
de 1
m 1
pe 1

SP: Ureter, right, excision

Sect. Site PCs
dm 1
pm 1
ss 3

 

Page 6 of 6

END OF REPORT

