 

Ivao—s 8 0’3
Cmcw‘ Mow, M05 13 ’0‘)”
5.41, Cm : elm, Na; c 67:9 /

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med_ Rac_ #: Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: 67) Location: Date of Receipt

Gender: F Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATlENT

Additional Copy to:
Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & History:

Bladder cancer.

Specimens Submitted:
1: SP: Lymph nodes, right common iliac, dissection

2: SP: Lymph nodes, left common iliac, dissection

3: SP: Lymph nodes, right distal pelvic, dissection

4: SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic , dissection

5: SP: Bladder, uterus, cervix, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral fallopian tubes adn ovaries, perivesical lymph nodes. urethra, radical
cystotectomy and hysterectomy

6: SP: Lymph nodes. presacral, dissection

7: SP: Left distal ureter, excision

8: SP: Right distal ureter, excision

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. SP: Lymph nodes, right common lilac, dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:

Metastatic urothelial carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 8
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor. 0.25cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.18 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

2. SP: Lymph nodes, left common Iliac, dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

 

UUID: EggFABZSE- -9A624- -4F01- -B%7A-R9E223D813Eie1da cted
3' SP: Lymph "°d“- "9'“ d'Stal pelvic. dissection:

m o e IiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIII
Ly “emaigumtﬁe'ia'mm |Hllu‘Ii'I‘I'I‘I‘I'‘I'I'IlI'lIllIi'I'I'I‘I‘I'I‘Iii‘I‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

5333333233 233:: iiimr‘nl‘ié‘ééucdseasa 1 I“IiiiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.2cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.1 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

4. SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic . dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 8

 

 

 

Page 1 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

5. SP: Bladder, uterus, cervix, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral fallopian tubes adn ovaries, perlveslcal lymph nodes,
urethra, radical cystotectomy and hysterectomy:

Tumor Type:
invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS

Histologic Grade:
High grade

Pattern of growth of the Non-invasive component:
Flat (in situ carcinoma)

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
inﬁltrating

Tumor Multicentricity:
identified
The invasive tumor is primarily in the trigone and bladder neck area.

Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesical soft tissues
Tumor involves the vesicle-vaginal soft tissue

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Right ureter involved
Left ureter involved

Vascular Invasion:
Identified

‘ Perineural Invasion:

identified

Surgical Margins:
Tumor present at right ureteral margin
Tumor present at left ureteral margin
See part 7 and 8

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting chronic cystitis
Exhibiting erosive cystitis

Female Genital Organs:
Show no pathologic abnormalities

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT3 (Invasion of perivesicie soft tissue)

 

6. SP: Lymph nodes, presacral, dissection:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3

 

7. SP: Left distal ureter. excision:
' Ureter involved with urothelial carcinoma in situ.

 

Page 2 of 6

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Margin is involved with carcinoma.
8. SP: Right distal ureter, excision:

Ureter involved with urothelial carcinoma in situ.
Margin is involved with carcinoma.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (ANDJOR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*"* Report Electronically Signed Out '*

 

Gross Description:

\1

1). The specimen is received , fresh labeled "right common iliac lymph nodes“ and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.2 to 1.1 to cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN - lymph nodes

BLN - bisected lymph nodes
FAT - remainder of the specimen

~«r'

2).The specimen is received fresh, labeled "left common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of 2 pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes 0.4 and 1.2
cm. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
BLN - bisected lymph nodes
FAT - remainder of the specimen

3). The specimen is received fresh. labeled "right distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.2 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

4). The specimen is received fresh in, labeled "left distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes
ranging from 0.3 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected lymph nodes

5). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "bladder, uterus, cervix, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries.
penvesicular lymph nodes, urethra". it consists of a bladder with uterus and a portion of vagina measuring 13 cm from superior to
interior, 11 cm laterally and 3.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The bladder measures 8 x 5 x 4 cm. the uterus measures 6 x 3.5 x
1.5 cm, the right ovary measures 2 x 1 x 0.3 cm, the right fallopian tube measures 4.5 cm. the left ovary measures 2 x 1 x 0.6 cm,
and the left fallopian tube measures 5 cm. The portion of vaginal cuff measures 4.5 x 2.5 cm. The distal urethra and the vaginal
cuff margin are shaved and submitted. The ureteric stumps measure 3.5 cm and show no abnormalities. The specimen is inked
blue anteriorly and black postericrly, and the bladder Is opened anteriorly to reveal a tumor measuring 2.2 x 2.2 x 0.3 cm. The
lesion is located in the trigone area. The distance from the left and the right ureteric oriﬁces are 0.3 cm and 0.8 cm respectively. On
sectioning, the tumor extends to a depth of 1.1 cm and extends Into the perivesical fat grossly. The remaining bladder mucosa is

 

Page 3 of 6

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

unremarkable. Discrete perivesical lymph nodes are not identiﬁed. The uterus is bivalved to reveal unremarkable endometrial
cavity; endometrium appears to be atrophic. Tissue is submitted for TPS. Gross photographs are taken. Representative sections
are submitted.

Summary of sections:
UTHM - distal urethra
RUM - right ureter margin
LUM - left ureter margin

L - lesion

RUO - right ureteric oriﬁce
LUO - left ureteric oriﬁce
PL - left posterior wall

LA - left anterior wall

RP- right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall

TRI - trigone

DOME - dome

F — perivesical fat

EMM - endomyometnum
CX - cervix

DVM - distal vaginal margin
RTO - right tube and ovary
LTO - left tube and ovary

E.

6). The specimen is received fresh, labeled "presacral lymph nodes" and consists of two pink tan ﬁrm lymph nodes measuring 0.2
and 0.3 cm. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes
FAT - remainder of the specimen

7). The specimen is received in formalin labeled " Left distal ureter, (unclipped end is the margin)" it consists of a segment of
ureter measuring 2.0 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. There is a clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially
sectioned from the tip with the clip to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:

TC-tip with clip

SS-serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end
TWC-Tip without clip

8). The specimen is received in formalin labeled “ Right distal ureter, unclipped end is the margin." It consists of a segment of
ureter measuring 2.0 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. There is a clip on one end of the specimen. The specimen is serially
sectioned from the tip with the clip to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

Summary of sections:

TC-tip with clip

SS-serial sections from clipped to non-clipped end
TWC-Tip without clip

ngmag of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Lymph nodes, right common Iliac, dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 BLN 3
1 FAT 2
1 LN 2

 

Page 4 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

. Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, left common lilac, dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 BLN 3
1 FAT 2

Part 3: SP: Lymph nodes, right distal pelvic, dissection

Block Sect. Site P05
3 BLN 4
1 LN 2

Part 4: SP: Lymph nodes, left distal pelvic , dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
5 BLN 6
1 LN 2

Part 5: SP: Bladder, uterus, cervix, anterior vaginal wall, bilateral fallopian tubes adn ovaries, perivesical lymph nodes,
urethra, radical cystotectomy and hysterectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
CX
DOM
DVM
EMM
F

L

LA
LTO
LUM
LUO
PL

RA
RP
RTO
RUM
RUO
TRI
UTHM

AM-a—x—sNNN—x—saMANN-aN—a
mwnnmwwmmwnwwwwnwm

Part 6: SP: Lymph nodes, presacral, dissection

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 FAT 2
1 LN 2

Part 7: SP: Left distal ureter, excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 ss 1
1 to 1
1 two 1

Part 8: SP: Right distal ureter, excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 ss 1
1 to 1

. 1 tvvc 1

Page 5 of 6

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

    
    

EIPM

Reviewer

 

Page 6 of 6

END OF REPORT

