 

Order Test Code Order Test Name

 

SPF SPFWALREPORT Ummi

 

 

 

 

SP FiNAL REPORT Source:

.TCGA—Dﬂ—5624

with squamous cell carcinoma of the right floor of mouth and right
lateral tongue extending into the anterior tongue

 

HISTORY:

GROSS:

1. “Right tonsillary biopsy‘. Received in a small Container is a 0.3 cm bit.
Bisected. '

Frozen section control. _

2. ”Deep baSe of tongue biopsy”. Received in a small container is a 0.1 cm red
bit. -

Frozen section control.

3. "Left genial glossas'. Received in a small container is a 0.1 cm red bit.

Frozen Section control.

4. 1’Right lingual nerve". Received in a small container is a 0.2 cm white
nerve bit.

Frozen section control.

5. “Right roximal margin“. Received fresh in a small
container is a 0.1 cm white bit.

Frozen section control.

6. “Left floor of mouth". Received in a small container is a 0.2 cm strip of
mucosa.

Frozen section control.

7. “Mid line base of tongue". Received in a small container is a 0.3 cm strip
of mucosa.

Frozen section control.

8. "Re resection posterior lateral margin soft tissue deep to palatal
glosses". Received in a small container is a 0.2 cm fatty yellow bit,

Frozen section control.

9. “Glossotonsillar sulcus". Received fresh in a small container is a 0.2 cm
mucosal bit.

Frozen section control. -

10. Hyoglossus deep margin“. Received in a small container is a 0.5 cm red
muscle bit.

Frozen section control. - .

11. "Genioglossus deep margin”. Received in-a small container is a 0.5 cm red
muscle bit.

Frozen section control.

12. “Intra tongue metastasis“. Received fresh in a small container is a 0.3 cm
yellow—tan bit.

Frozen section control.

13. "Level I facial node“.'Received in a small container is a 1.2 cm lymph
node with a 0.4 cm white nodular area. Sectioned.

13A and B. Frozen section control. (

14. “Level I submental node”. Received fresh in a small container is a 0.7 cm
lymph node with fibroadipose tissue. Bisected.

Frozen section control. _(-

15. "Level III retrojugular chain biopsy“. Received fresh in a small container
is a 0.2 cm bit.

Frozen section control. - . .
16. "Re—reSection palatal glosses“. Received in formalin in a small container

is an unoriented 2.5 x 1.2 x 0.8 Cm segment of tan soft tissue with a single
0.5 x 0.2 cm patch of possible mucosa. Inked black and serially sectioned.
16A and B.

17. “1 cm intra tongue metastasis bisected". Received in formalin in a small
container is an unoriented 1.2 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm segment of yellow soft'tissue

 

   

 

 

with central pallor and firmness. One portion of the specimen appears to be
eXpOSed and may not represent true margin; this surface is inked red. The
remainder of specimen is inked black and specimen is serially sectioned

perpendicular to the red surface.
m- -

18. lRight neck level I". Recaived in formalin in a small container is a 4.3 x
3. 2 x 2.1 cm portion of yellow adipose and submandibular gland. The gland
measures 3.2 x 2. 6 x 1.3 cm The cut surface is unremarkable. Seven possible

lymph nodes are identified ranging up to 1.1 cm.
18A. Submandibular gland.

18B and C. Possible lymph nodes.
19. “Right neck level II“. Received 1n formalin in a small container is a 3.6

x 3. 2 x 2.1 cm portion of yellow adipose. Two possible lymph nodes are

identified ranging up to 0. 7 cm.

19A. Two possible lymph nodes.
20. “Right neck level III“. Received in formalin in a small container is a 4.6

x 3.7 x 2.2 cm irregular portion of yellow adipose. Three possible lymph nodes
are identified ranging up to 1.5 cm. Two to three possible lymph nodes.

21. "Right neck level IV". Received in formalin in a small container is a 4.5
x 3.2 x 2.3 cm-portion of yellow adipose. Multiple possible lymph nodes are

identified ranging up to 3.2 om.

21A. Multiple possible lymph nodes. {-
218. One trisected lymph node.

21C. One bisected lymph node.

21D and E. Largest lymph node. Fat retained.
22. "Right hemiﬁglossectomy“. Received in formalin in a medium container is a

7.2 x 4.8 x 3.4 cm right lateral tongue with attached right lateral and
anterior floor of mouth. Mucosa is tan and focally granular.-It is remarkable
for a 1.8 X 1.1 cm red—tan ulcer at the right lateral floor of mouth extending
into the right lateral tongue that is 1.3 cm away from the anterior margin,
1.3 cm away from the lateral margin. Near the right tonsil and base of tongue
on the lateral aspect there is a 1.5 x 1.1 x 1.3 cm cavity that is lined with
a red—brown fibromuscular tiSSue. No hemorrhage or granulation tissue are
noted. Specimen inked as follows: Medial blue, inferior green, lateral black.
The tumor has a maximum depth of 1.0 cm. It is less than 0.1 cm from the
superior medial margin. The inferior margin of the tongue has an underlying
gland, 1.3 x 1.3 cm. The tumor extends to the gland. The remaining cut surface
is a red—brown muscular tissue.

22A. Anterior floor of mouth to sublingual gland. -)

22B. Tumor to medial margin.

22C and D. rrumor to medial and inferior sublingual gland. -

22E. Posterior lateral inferior margin. -}

22F, Posterior cavity to lateral and medial margin. -

22G. Base of tongue margin

FROZEN SECTION REPORT

1—8,V10~11, 14. Negative for carcinoma.
9. Squamous dysplasia mild to moderate.
l2u Negative for squamous cell carcinoma. Minor salivary gland tissue.

13. Positive for squamous cell carcinoma-
14. Negative for carcinoma.
15. Negative for carcinoma.

- l — -,I the signing staff pathologist, have personally

examined and interpreted the slides from this case.

 

Permanent sections confirm frozen section reports for specimens 1—15,

however do not confirm for #12. Although specimen #12 (Intra tongue
metastasis)'does not contain squamous cell carcinoma, the minor salivary gland
tissue contains a mucoepidermoid carcinoma. See COMMENT.

 

 

 

 

h—

MICROSCOPIC:
SQUAMOUS LESIONS OF HEAD 6': NECK: RESECTION

Site: ‘ Right tongue

Findings:

Squamous carcinoma. ‘ Differentiation: Moderately differentiated
Subtype: N/A
Gross: Ulcerating Size 1.5 cm (largest dimension)
InVaSion: Present‘ If present: depth 1.3 cm.

Tumor border: Infiltrative

Perineural invasion: Present

Vascular invasion: Absent

Bone/Cartilage invasion: N/A

Lymphocyte infiltration:‘ Present If present: Mild

Margins: Negative

SQUAMOUS LESIONS OF HEAD & NECK: LYMPH NODE_DISSECTIONS

 

 

 

 

 

RIGHT

LEVEL Extra—capsular
(or Site} #Positive #Negative extension

I l i 6 Yes

II 0 ‘ ‘ 2 - - _

III I 0 3 _

IV 0 l2 , H

TOTAL 1 23 Yes

MICROSCOPIC DIAGNOSIS:
1—8, 10—11. Surgical margins as specified above, biopsies: Negative for

Carcinoma .

9. Glossotonsillar sulcus, biopsy: Moderate squamous dysplasia. Negative for
carcinoma ,

 

 

 

 

12&17. “Intrautongue metastasis“, biopsies: Well to moderately differentiated
mucoepidermoid carcinoma. Peripheral margins of specimen 17 negative for

neoplasm. _ See COMMENT.

l3. Lymph node, level I facial region, excision: Metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma involving one lymph node. Extranodal extension is identified.

14. Lymph node, level I submental region, excision: One benign lymph node.

15. Soft tissue, level III retrojugular chain region, biopsy: Fat necrosis. No
lymphoid tissue identified.

16. “Re resection palatal glossus‘, excision. Benign squamous mucosa, skeletal
muscle, and salivary gland tissue. Negative for carcinoma. '

18. Lymph nodes, right neck level I, excision: Five benign lymph nodes. Benign
salivary'gland.

19. Lymph nodes, right neck level II, excision: Two benign lymph nodes.

20. Lymph nodes, right neck level III, excision: Three benign lymph nodes.
21. Lymph nodes, right neck level IV, excision: Twelve benign lymph nodes.
22. Right tongue, hemiglossectomy: Invasive, moderately—differentiated
squamous cell carcinoma. Tumor invades 1.3 cm deep and comes to within less

than 0.2 cm of the medial margin. Perineural invasion is identified. All
margins negative for carcinoma. Please see template for details.

 

 
  

- the signing staff pathologist, have personally examined
and interpreted the slides from this case.

 

  

Code:r'

haul-u

—signature)

 

F—

 

 

 

