. uuru. sraeasr4- 5:91- 4A1a- 3533- -127E39EF8554d
.Pnnt . TCGA- A:- new 01A- PR Page 1 of4

||||||||||ll|||||||llllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllellllllcllled
l llllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllll
lIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I

Back :9 Us;

. TEST: Surglcal Patholoav
Date 8: Time: a .7

 

 

REPORT STATUS: Flnal

 

 

 

 

FACILITY:

 

 

 

Patientf

Surgical Pathology -
SURGICAL PATROLVGY REPORT

See Addendum

MD a 3
Patient Name: 1
Accession ll CW mﬂ/MWfMA/ﬂj 9500/3
Med. Rec. #: ”5/
Billing Type: Inpatient 51ft . W N“ 650-7 37/”
Location:
DOB: - .Mge:
Service: Surgery
Gender: F
‘Billing M
Takeﬁ W, Received I Reported:
Physician(s): "’u
Specimenls) Received
A: Left sentinel nodes
B: Left sentinel node #2
C: Left breast tissue
D: Left axillary contents
Pathologic Diagnosis
"A“ - Left sentinel node: Metastatic carcinoma in one

(of one) lymph node. Two fooi of metastatic tumor are present,
the larger measuring 0.3 cm. The metastatic tumor is confined to
the lymph node. '
"B" - Left sentinel lymph node #2: One lymph node negative
for malignancy

C. 'ﬁﬂ'ﬁi‘east tiuunw V M
Histologic Type: :=InVasive doctal carcinoma (NO!)
Modified 8- -R Grade. 3
Tubular score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitosis score: 3

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 1.5 X
Regional Lymph Nodes: Number of lymph nodes examined: 13

Number of lymph nodes involved: 1

Metastasis dectected by light microscopy
Margins of Invasive Carcinoma: Negative

Invasive carcinoma is located: 3 cm

away from the deep margin

Lymphovascular Invasion: ' Absent
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ: Absent
Paget‘s Disease: Absent

Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

 

 

‘Print .

Page 2 of 4

Microcalcifications: Absent
Additional Pathologic Findings: Fibroadenomas
Specimen Type: Mastectomy
Specimen Size: Greatest dimension: 28 cm.
Tumor Laterality: Left
Tumor Site: Upper inner quadrant
Lower inner quadrant
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes and axillary
dissection
Comment: In Part "C", one contiguous lymph node is negative

for malignancy. H&E and cytokeratin stains examined.
pT2 lea pMX

"D" ~ Left axillary contents: Ten lymph nodes negative for
malignancy. ‘
. Left axillary contents:
ESTROGEN AND PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR SYNOPSIS
Estrogen and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry stains
are performed utilizing the 6f11 (ER) and 1A6 clones (PR) along
with the iview detection kit. The stains are performed on
formalin-fixed paraffineembedded sections. Both special stains
have adequate controls.

ESTROGEN RECEPTORS:

Infiltrating malignant cells showing positive staining:
60 %

PROGESTERONE RECEPTORS:

Infiltrating malignant cells showing positive staining:

10 %
ESTROGEN RECEPTOR RESULTS: Positive.
PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR RESULTS: Positive.
Note: Consensus
Statement on Adjuvant Therapy for Breast Cancer:
Any positive nuclear ER immunostaining is considered a positive
result. These immunohistochemistry reaction patterns were
developed and their performance characteristics determined by
. They have not been cleared or
approved by the 0.5. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is
certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of
1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.’
Primary Pathologist:
Electronically Signed Out by:

Addendum
Results from
HERZ by FISH: 1.4/Not Amplified

Electronically Signed Out by
Clinical History
Left breast cancer.

Intraoperative Consultation

A - Left sentinel node: Metastatic cancer. (Microscopic frozen
section).

 

Page 3 of 4

B - Left sentinel node #2: Negative. (Microscopic frozen
section).

Gross Description

A ~ The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"left sentinel node." The specimen consists of a pink-tan lymph
node measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.9 cm. The specimen is bisected and
entirely frozen in cassette "FS—Al."

B - The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"left sentinel node." The specimen consists of a pink~tan lymph
node measuring 3 x 2 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is bisected and
entirely frozen in cassette "FS~BI."

C - The specimen is received in formalin and labeled "left breast
suture at 6 o'clock." The specimen consists of a mastectomy
specimen without axillary tissue measuring 28 x 23.5 x 50 cm and
weighing 1559 gm. There is an overlying tan ellipse of skin
measuring 22 x 7 cm and showing an eccentric wrinkled brown
areola measuring 4.5 x 4.5 cm. Within the center of the areola
there is an inverted soft brown nipple measuring 1.1 x 1.1 x 0.9
cm. There are grossly no healed incisions or biopsy sites on the
skin surface however the medial edge of the areola is partially
stained with blue dye. Attached suture marks the 6 o'clock
margin. The deep margin is inked black and the specimen is
serially sectioned to reveal an irregular firm tumor between the
upper-inner and lower—inner quadrants approximately 1 cm from the
nipple measuring 2.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The tumor comes to within 3
cm of the deep margin and within 2 cm of the superficial margin'
(inked blue). Further sectioning reveals a well~circumscribed
nodule within the lower—outer quadrant 3.5 cm from the nipple
measuring 1.5 x 1 x 1 cm. This nodule comes to within 3 cm of
the deep margin. The remaining specimen consists of lobulated
fat interspersed with a large amount of tan-white
irregularly-indurated tissue with scattered cysts filled with
clear fluid measuring up to 0.4 cm in diameter. A lymph node is
identified at the axillary margin measuring 1 x 1 x 0.7 cm.
Representative sections are submitted in 12 cassettes.

Block summary: "1" - vertical section of nipple, "2" -
cross-section of nipple, "3-4” — tumor, "5" - superficial and
deep margin nearest to tumor, "6" - nodule within the lower-outer
quadrant, "7" - upper—inner quadrant, "8" — lower—inner quadrant,
"9" ~ lower-outer quadrant, "10" - upper-outer quadrant, "11" -
tissue underlying the nipple stained with blue dye, "12" -
bisected lymph node at the axillary margin.

D - The specimen is received in formalin and labeled "left
axillary contents." The specimen consists of a tan—yellow portion
of axillary fatty tissue measuring 8 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm and weighing
53 gm. Sectioning reveals 11 potential lymph nodes ranging from
0.4 to 2.3 cm in greatest dimensions. The lymph nodes are
totally submitted in 4 cassettes.

Block summary: "1" - 7 lymph nodes 1 of which is bisected, "2" -
2 bisected lymph nodes, "3" ~ 1 bisected lymph node, "4" - 1
bisected lymph node.

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic

 

