 

 

   

 

 

  

 
  

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

     
  
 

" . ‘ . . oracnosre,» ~-
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Omenium,exolsion: Criteria
Malignancy not identiﬁed. WW—

Prlmary lumor site Dlsaepancv A
HIPAA Discrepancy
Prior Malllnmcy leiory .

       

B. Uterus. bilateral adnexa. hysterectomy with bilateral salphgcoophorectomy

 

Tumor Characteristics:
1. Hietoiogiclype' Papillary serous carcinoma. “-
2. Hietologic grade: Highgrade.
3. Tumor site: Endometrlum.
4
5

 

. Tumor size: 4.5 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm.

6. involvement of wrvix Tumor focally present within endooervlcal glands as well as cervical simma.
7. Extent of involvement of other organs: Small locus of tumor is present in one every measuring approximately 0.1 cm in maximal dimension.
8. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not deﬁnitively seen.
Surgical Margin satire:
1. Margins uninvolved: bilateral parametrie, cervix. uterine seroea.
2. Margins involved: no deﬁnitive margins are involved.
Lymph Node seams:
See belmv.
Other:
1. Other signiﬁcant llrlrﬁnge: Bilateral adnexal structure: without other signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality except for the isolated tumor mars stated
above.
2. pTNM 818w PT3aN2 (FIGO: IIICZ).

‘ / r: A — :2 ~ 5 ..
c. Leltpelviclympllnooee,excision: - MM if (,0 -
Onaarninelympnnodeaposmverormommccuunoma. WW emu-lime, P‘f’vm 8 4 I V /3
D. Len periaoriidoommon lymph nodes, exdaion: S if; .‘ ,Z1WW “’5 ' /“
One or eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma. M/alfl II

E. Right peneoriic lymph node. excision:
One of one lymph node positive for metastatic carcinoma.

F. Right pelvic lymph nodes. excision:
Two of eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma.

Electronic Signature:

COMMENTS:
Appropriately controlled immunohistochemical stain: for p53 and WT-1 performed on block 310 show positivity for p53 and negativity for WM, consistent
with same carcinoma of endometnai origin.

 

UUID:BB7ca7cs-8685-41EA-A6cs-FC496C311888
TCGA-AJ-ABBD-elA-PR Redacted
“II ”II"
III

III II|||||||||Il|||||||||||||||l|||||||||||||||||||l|||||
IlllllHllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llll

 

IlllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

   

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: year old female endometrial biopsy with papillary serous cancer.
Postoperative Diagnosis:

symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A- Omentum

B. Uterus, cervix. 880

C. Len pelvic lymph node

D. Len perlaortidcommon lymph node
E. Right penaortic lymph node

F. Right pelvic lymph node

   

' ‘ SPECIMEN DATA».
GROSS DESCRIPTTON:
The specimen is received in six formalin filled containers labeled with lhe patients name

A. Container A is additionally labeled '1' and contains a 23.5 x 18.5 x 1.5 cm yellow-tan ﬁnely tabulated ﬁbrofatty soft tissue. The specimen is most
consistent with omenturn. 0n section and palpation, no discrete lesions are identiﬁed Representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 through 4
labeled ' f/

8. Container B is additionally labeled '2' and contains a 55.5 g uterus with attached cervix received with detached bilateral adnexa. The 4.5 cm in length
x 4.5 x 3.0 cm uterine corpus is surfawd by pink-tan serosa. The 3.7 cm in length x 3.5 x 3.5 cm uterine cervix is partially surfaced by pink-ten glistening
ectocervicel mucosa and features a central 0.9 cm patent as. The parametrlal soft tissues are inked and taken on face. The endocervicel canal is yellow-
tan, focally cystic and mucold with the usual folds The triangular endometrlum is remarkable for a 4.5 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm pink-tan granular lesion that
involves the entire endometrlum. Normal appearing endometrium is not identiﬁed. On section. this lesion invades 0.5 cm into a 1.2 cm thick pink-tan
focally cystic and ﬁbrous myometrium. No additional myometriai nodqu or lesions are identiﬁed.

The first linbriated fallopian tube is received in two pieces and when reconstructed is appmidmately 3.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.6 cm in
diameter. The attached yellow—tan lobulated ovary is 2.4 x 2.0 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bivalved to reveal a yellow-tan ﬁbrous cut surface with no
discrete lesions.

The second frmbriated fallopian tube is received in two pieces that when reconstructed '3 approximately 4.5 cm in length and ranges from 0.4 to 0.6 an
in diameter. The attached 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.7 cm yellow—tan Iobulated ovary is bivalved to reveal a vellow—tan ﬁbrous cut surface with numerous gray-white
corpora albicentie. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 81 through 14 labeled designated as follows: 1 ) right
pammetrlum. en face; 2) left paramotnum. on face: 3) anterior endoectocervix. 4) posterior enuueuooervnr, o) anterior lower uterine segment: 8)
posterior lower uterine sequent: 7 and 8) full thickness anterior endomyometritnn; 11) ﬁrst fallopian tube; 12) ﬁrst ovary. 13) second fallopian tube; 14)
second ovary,

Additionally. a yellow. green. and blue cassette are submitted for genomlce research each labeled:

0. Container 0 is additionally labeled ’left pelvic lymph node‘ and contains a 8.5 x 4.5 x 2.5 an aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty sol! tissue. 0n
palpation, multiple ﬁrm. fatty possble lvmnh nodes are identiﬁed ranging from 0.5 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dhnension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes C1 through 7 labeled Iesignated as follows: Ct and 2) three whole possible lymph nodes in each cassette. 03) one whole
possibleblsected lymph node, Leann 5) onewholepossblebisectedlymph node: Geandnonewholepossibieblsectedlymph node.

D. Container D is additionally labeled ’Ieﬂ periaortic and common' and contains a 5.0 x 4.3 x 1.5 cm aggmgate of yellow-ten ﬂbrofatty solt tissue. On
palpation. multiple ﬁrm fatty posaihie lvmnh nodes are identified ranging from 0.5 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dinension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes Di through 4 labeled I“ designated as follows: Di) thme whole possible lymph nodes; 02) four whole possible lymph nodes; 03
and 4) one whole possible bisected lymph node.

E. Container E is additionally labeled 'right perieortlc lymph node‘ and contains a 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow—tan fibrofatty sol! tissue. On
palpation. a 3.0 cm vellovHan firm fatty nodule is identiﬁed consistent with poaible lymph node. It is blooded and entirely submitted in cassettes E1
through 3 labeled ’

F. Container F is additionally labeled 'right pelvic lymph node' and contains an 8.0 x 4.8 x 2.5 cm aggregate of yellow-tan ﬁbrofatty soil tissue. On
palpation. multiple firm fatty possible lvmoh nodes are Identified ranging from 0.6 up to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in
cassettes F1 through 5 labeled sslgnated as follows: F1) three whole possible lymph nodes; F2) two whole possible lymph nodes; F3)
two whole possible bisected lymph nooe tone united); F4 and 5) one whole possible blooded lymph node.

 

 

 

