/

uonection Date:—

Hospital of Origin:
Copy to: '

QC Pathoiogist:

FINAL PATHOLOGlC DIAGNOSIS:

A. Omentai implant; excision:

Benign ﬁbroconnective and fibroadipose tissue, no evidence
of carcinoma.

intra—operative consultation corroborated.

B. Gaiibiadder; cholecystectomy:

Chronic cholecystitis.

Choleiithiasis.

No tumor identiﬁed.

C. Gastroepiploic lymph node; excision: ~

Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue with acute inflammation and fat
necrosis, no lymph node identiﬁed.

D. Celiac lymph node; excision:

Peripheral nerve and fibroconnective tissue. no lymph node

idenﬁﬁed.

intrauoperative consultation corroborated.

E. Lower pancreatic neck; ex ' ‘ :

Fibrotic stroma with entrapped pancreatic ductal structure
i malignancy.

F. Upper pancreatic nec ; excision:

Atypical giandular epithelium suspicious for invasive welt

differentiated adenocarcinoma.

G. Duodenum, pancreas; full resection:

Tumor Characteristics:

1. Histologic type: ﬁQQPPEQFCiUOTDE arising in the

background of intraductal papillary muoinous neoplasm.

2. Histologic'gradef"Weli"diﬁ§F§ﬁtiated.

3. Tumor site: Pancreatic head.

4. Tumor size: At least 4.5 cm.

5. Microscopic extent of tumor: Tumor extends into the

duodenal wall.

6. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed in the

sections submitted. see lymph node status below.

7. Perineural invasion: Focally present.

8. Treatmenteffect: Not identiﬁed.

Surgical Margin Status:

See comment for discussion of margins.

Lymph Node Status:

1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: Nine.

 

 
 
 
     
 

‘J .
£-
...

1v.

"‘1“ch n » mean so.

1|.

 

2. total number of lymph noder *itaining metastatic
carcinoma: One (1/9).

Other: ' Zi'if‘fs; t~ I: "

1. Accessory spleen with no signiﬁcant histopathologic ' .. _-'- -

abnormality. - __ _ _ n 5
119,9 iii “has“:

2. pTNM stage: pT3 Ni.
3. Expert consultation pending, results to be reported as
an addendum.

COMMENTS:

Histologic sections show a large mucinous neoplasm within
the main pancreatic duct. The iesion produced abundant mucin
which extravasated into the surrounding parenchyma. in
addition there are areas which show cytologically bland but
invasive glands within the pancreatic stroma. Focal areas
are suspicious for perineural invasion. One lymph node also
shows small cytotogically bland glands consistent with
tumor. These findings are supportive of a diagnosis of
invasive carcinoma within the background of an iPMN.
Specimens E and F represent the pancreatic neck margin
according to Dr. Specimen F shows atypical glands
suspicious for well differentiated adenocarcinoma. However
the pancreatic neck margin (Gt )shaved from the main
resection shows fibrotic iobules without definitive

carcinoma. Sections from the common bile duct (G4) and
uncinate (C52) examined at frozen also show atypical glands.
The proximal and distal duodenai margins are negative for
tumor. The soft tissue pancreatic margins are also negative
but are ctose (within 1 mm) of the superior, inferior,

posterior and anterior. Because of the nature of the case,

it will be sent to the .linic for expert consultation.

Results will be reported as an addendum.
These ﬁndings were discussed with Dr. on-

CLlNlCAL HISTORY: .
Preoperative Diagnosis: .year old - male,
intraductai papillary mucinous tumor.

Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPEClMENS:

Omental implant, rule out cancer, with frozen section
Gailbladder

Gastroepiploic lymph node

Celiac iymph node with frozen section

Lower pancreatic neck with frozen section

Upper pancreatic neck with frozen section

. Duodenum, pancreas

onmpom>

 

 

 

 

 

PROCEDURAL W
Date of Procedur
Accession Datefi‘imez—

GROSS DESCRlPTlON:

The specimen is received in seven containers labeted with
the patient's name

Container A Is additionally labeled omentai implant, " and
contains a 1.0 cm yellow~tan tibrofatty soft tissue. The
specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section, with the
residue! entirely'resubmitted for permanent section in
cassette A, iabeled

Container 8 is additionally labeled' “gallbiadder" and
contains an 8 5 x 4. 8 x 4.0 cm intact gallbladder. The
across is purple—pink and glistening. The iumen contains
yellow—tan viscid bite along with muitiple gray—green,
multifaceted choleliths aggregating to 6.0 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm.
The wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The mucosa is
yellow-tan, smooth to roughened, with no excrescences or
exophytic lesions. Representative sections are submitted in
cassette B, labeled

Container C is additionally iabeled "gastroepiploic lymph
node," and contains a 4.5 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm, yellow—tan,
fibrofatty soft tissue. On sectioning and palpation, suture
material is identified. however, a discrete lymph node is
not paipated. The specimen is entirelv submitted in
cassettes (31-3, labeled , for possible lymph
node capture.

Container D is additionally labeled "ceiiac lymph node,"
and contains a 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm, yeiiow~gray, rubbery soft
tissue entirely submitted for frozen section, with the
residual entirely resubmitted for permanent section in
cassette D, labeled

Container E is additionally labeled "lower pancreatic

neck," and contains a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm, yeitow—tan, soft
tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section with the residual entirely resubmitted for permanent
section in cassette E labeled

Container F Is additionally labeled. ”upper pancreatic
neck," and contains a 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm, gray—white,
rubbery soft tissue entirety submitted for frozen section
with the residual entirely resubmitted for permanent section
in cassette F, iabeleo’

Container (3 is additionally labeled, "duodenum, pancreas,”
and contains a Whipple resection specimen comprised of
duodenum (16.5 cm in lengt_h and ranging from 3.5 up to 5.0

 

 

en- H1 hast

1r.

 

a u; ...u-u A .nu- L‘uauuo‘f—xjﬁgﬁcu . “m5,

 

cnﬁrIbiar—nEt—e—r-l:pahcreatichea' :5 x 6.0 x 6.0 cm), and
common bile duct (1.0 cm in long . by 0.5 cm in diameter). - . ‘-

E'I"

The duodenal serosa is tan—gray and shaggy, with scant ' ' 3"‘33; 1" ‘ r7 "

amounts of adherent yellow-tan mesenteric fat. On opening. - . .

the wall averages 0.9 cm in thickness. Two ampulla are 114%“ m: _ 1359‘
y 1

identified. Surrounding the pancreatic ampulla is a 4.5 x

4.0 x 2.0 cm, pink—tan, papillary mucoid mass that
approaches to within 2.0 cm of the inked proximal duodenal
margin. Oh sectioning, pink tan mucoid and papillary tumor
is present within the main pancreatic duct and approaches to
within 0.2 cm of the pancreatic neck margin. Additionally,
this mass approaches to within 0.1 cm of the inked -
pancreatic margin at the superior, inferior, anterior and
posterior surfaces. The second ampulla is located 1.0 cm
from the ﬁrst. it is dilated to 1.5 cm in diameter and

extrudes mucold debris upon compression. This communicates
with the common bile duct which contains abundant mucoid
debris on sectioning. The remainder of the pancreatic
parenchyma is gray—white, firm and fibrous. No
normal—appearing pancreatic parenchyma is identified. On
sectioning and palpation, multiple ill-defined firm nodules

are identified along the periphery of the pancreas. These

are possibly consistent with lymph nodes. They range from
0.2 up to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Representative
sections are submitted for frozen section, with the residual
entirely submitted for permanent section in cassettes (31—4,
labeled designated as follows: (31,
pancreatic neck, preVlOUSIy designated F861; (32, uncinate,
previously designated F862; G3, duodenum, previously
designated FSG3; 4, common duct, previously designated F864.
Additional representative sections are submitted in

cassettes (35-20, designated as follows: GS, proximal
duodenum and pancreas, perpendicular; GS, pancreatic
ampulla; C3749, protruding duodenal mass; Git), mass to inked
superior pancreatic margin; Gt 1, mass to inked interior
pancreatic margin, perpendicular; (312, mass to inked
anterior pancreatic margin, perpendicular; 613, mass to
inked posterior pancreatic margin, perpendicular; G14,
common bile duct ampulla; G15, distal duodenum, en face;
616, live whole possible lymph nodes; (317-18, six whole
possible lymph nodes in each cassette; (319—20, one whole
possible bisected lymph node. Additionally, a yellow and a

ireen cassette are submitted for genomics research labeled

lNTRA—PROCEDURE CONSULTATlON:
FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSES:
FSA. "Negative for malignanc , benign fibroadipose tissue
with fibrosis. Results given to“after positive
patient iD,” per Dr. ‘
i—SB. "Neural tissue, no tumor seen. Results in m
. after positive patent iD " geri ”44%-,” ﬂ . """"" '

,_ .___....__.._..____._.._ H_M—~

1i.

 

FSE. "Extensive fibrosis. Resul’ ”1 Dr. liter
positive patient lD," per Dr. - _
2% “Is? : :-
FSF Téxtensive ﬁbrosis, no evidence of iPlVlT. Results to
fter positive patient iD, " per Drs. ‘ . r

T cc rt suit-- sari
FSGi. "Pancreatic neck, fibrosis tumor not oerinitiveiy
seen. Results to Dr.

. 30.
i—SGZ. "Lincinate, fibrosis, tumor not deﬁnitively seen.
Results to Dr. after positive patient lD," per
FSGB. "Duodenum, negative. Results to Dr, after

positive patient ID," per Dr

FSGti. "Common duct, fibrosis, tumor not definitively seen.
Results to Dr after positive patient lD," per Dr. _ ._ _. a

 

"'"X‘ié Cilé'si - 'e/i'én‘ti'iarerar
Routine Exam

 

EXAMINATlON: CHEST—PA & LATERAL

  

FULL RESULT:
indication: Presurgical testing.

Two views of the chest were obtained.
Findings:

Heart size is normal. The lungs are hyperinflated consistent COPD. No
infiltrates or effusions are identified.

lMPRESSlON:
Moderate COPD.

 

 

