 

 

I|||||H||||||||||||||||||||
ll Illlllllllllillllllll | || l||l|||l||ll||||||

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:
Med. Rec.#: Visit #: Service Date:
DOB: Sex: Male Received:
Soc. Sec. #: Location: Client:
Physician(s):

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Prostate and seminal vesicles, prostatectomy: Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason
scare 3+4=7, bilateral involvement, present at surgical margins; see comment.

B. "Left posterior apical margin," biopsy: ram: {:05 3,4013

1. No tumor. '
2. Fibromuscular tissue. 5412’,WH05 ¢@l«‘i

get) I/zeall‘i
"Left anterior apical margin," biopsy:

No tumor.

Benign prostate tissue.

Right pelvic lymph node, biopsy:
No tumor.
Fibrofatty tissue.

Pro Pro

E. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/7).

COMMENT:
Synoptic Comment for Prostate Tumors

- Type of tumor: Adenocarcinoma.

- Location of tumor: Left apex (slides A2 and A3), left posterior mid gland (slides AS and A6), left
anterior mid gland (slides A9-A12), left base (slide A16 and A18), right anterior apex (slides A1
and A2), right anterior midgland.

- Estimated volume of tumor: 6.2 cubic centimeters.

- Gleason score: 3+4=7.

- Estimated volume > Gleason pattern 3: 30%.

- Involvement of capsule: Tumor invades capsule (slides A1 and A3).

~ Extraprostatic extension: Extraprostatic extension ls present, extensive (slide A6 and A11).

 

 

  
     

- . Min. My“... .

- Margin status for tumor: Tumor extends to Inked excision margins at apex, left lateral and base of
main specimen, slides A2, A6, and A13. Separately submitted margins are negative for tumor.

- Margin status for benign glands: Benign glands present at inked extension margins; slide A2.

- Involvement of seminal vesicle: None.

- Perineural inﬁltration: Present (slide A5).

- Prostatic intraepitheiial neoplasia (PIN): Absent.

- AJCC/UICC stage: pTBaNDMX.

Specimen(s) Received

A:Prostate and seminal vesicles (fresh)
B:Left posterior apical margin

CzLeft anterior apical margin

Dleght pelvic lymph node

EzLeft pelvic lymph node

Clinical History

Review of the electronic medical record indicates the patient is a —man
with a history of prostate cancer by core biopsy, Gleason's grade from 3+3 (6) to 3+4 (7). He now
undergoes a radical robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymph node
dissection.

Gross Description
The specimen is received in ﬁve parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number.
Part A is received fresh, while Parts B-E are received in formalin.

Part A is additionally labeled "prostate and seminal vesicles." It consists of a large, intact prostate
gland with attached seminal vesicle/vas deferens bundles, weighing 44 gm and measuring 3.8 cm from
apex to base, 6 cm from medial to lateral, and 3.3 cm from anterior to posterior. The exterior of the
specimen is roughened, red-tan, and glistening. A single line of small, silver-gray laparoscopic staples
closes the dorsal vein complex. The bladder margin demonstrates extensive cautery markings. The
seminal vesicle/yes deferens bundles are small, soft, and whoried, without obvious mass or lesion. The
right anterior and lateral aspect of the mid gland through base is somewhat soft to palpation. The left
lateral aspect from apex through mid gland is firm to palpation. The right anterior surface of the-gland
is inked in green, the left anterior surface is inked in blue, and the posterior surface is inked in black.
The specimen is then partially bisected at the mid gland, perpendicular to the urethral channel, and
fresh tissue is banked from the left posterior aspect of the apex through mid gland for tissue
banking/research purposes. The incision is then glued shut, and the specimen is fixed prior to further
sectioning. Following formalin fixation, the bladder margin is removed, and the remainder of the gland
is serially sectioned, from apex to base, perpendicular to the urethral channel, Into seven serial slices.
The serial slices reveal a large, solid, white, lobular mass dominating the left central and peripheral
zones, noted in the apical margin through serial slice 4. The tumor continues along the posterior aspect
into serial slice 7. This lesion measures 3 cm in greatest dimension and grossly abuts the anterior,
lateral, and posterior prostatic capsule in serial slices 1-4. The left anterior lateral and posterior aspect
of the left lobe is dominated by an area of polycystic tissue. The apical and bladder margins as well as
representative sections of the prostate and seminal vesicles are submitted as follows:

Apical margin

Cassette A1: Right apex
Cassette A2: Central apex.
Cassette A3: Left apex.
Serial slice 2
Cassette A4: Right lateral aspect.
Cassette A5: Central aspect.
Wm, Cassette A6: Left lateral aspect.
KM} Serial slice 4
Cassette A7: Right lateral aspect.
Cassette A8: Right central aspect.
Cassette A9: Left central aspect.

 

_____ Page 20f3

:. ’ WW Wwwnn

y

t

Cassette A10: Left lateral aspect.

Cassette A11: Anterior margin.
Serial slice 6
Cassette A12: Left posterior quadrant

Bladder margin

Cassettes A13-A16: Sequentially submitted from right to left.
Prostatic/Seminal vesicle junction

Cassette A17: Right seminal vesicle and cross-section of vas deferens.
Cassette A18: Left seminal vesicle and cross-section of vas deferens.

Part B, additionally labeled "1 - left posterior apical margin ink - margin side," consists of one pink—tan,
oriented, ﬁrm, fibrous tissue fragment measuring 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. One side of the specimen has
been pre-inked black and is designated as margin by the submitting surgeon. The specimen is trisected
and entirely submitted In cassette Bl. ’

Part C, additionally labeled "2 - left anterior apical margin Ink in true margin," consists of one pink-tan,
oriented, firm, ﬁbrous tissue fragment measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm. One side has been pre-inked
black and is designated the margin by the submitting surgeon. The specimen is trisected and entirely
submitted in cassette C1.

Part D, additionally labeled "3 - right pelvic lymph nodes," consists of one soft, yellow-brown, irregular,
unoriented, fibroadipose tissue fragment, including multiple lymph node candidates. The specimen
measures 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted, intact, In cassette 01.

Part E, additionally labeled "4 - left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of one soft, yellow-brown, irregular,
unoriented, fibroadlpose tissue fragment measuring 6.5 x 2.8 x 0.6 cm. It grossly appears to contain
multiple lymph node candidates that range from 0.3 to 2.8 cm in greatest diameter. The lymph node
candidates are submitted as follows:

Cassette El: Intact lymph node candidates.
Cassette E2: Intact lymph node candidates.
Cassettes E3-E4: Single, sectioned lymph node candidate, submitted in two cassettes.

The remaining tissue Is returned to the container.
Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

Electronically signed out

Criteria

1’
HIPM

 

case is

Reviewer Initials

 

