  

CGA—A6—381B

 

SPECIMEN

A. sigmoid colon — stitch on distal and staple line at proximal end
B. Proximal margin of sigmoid colon

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Left colon cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received unfixed, labeled "sigmoid
colon", and consists of a segment of large bowel,
measuring
20 cm. in length and 2.8 cm. in diameter. There is abundant
pericolonic fat and the entire specimen is up to 10 cm. in
diameter.
There is a suture at the open end of the specimen, the opposite end
is stapled. There is an area of narrowing where an appendix
epiploioa is adherent to the serosal surface of the colon. This
area is 6 cm. from the open end. The bowel is opened with a
single
incision on the antimesenteric surface. There is a napkin ring—
like
fungating mucosal tumor, measuring 6 cm. in length and 1.2 cm. in
depth. The tumor is circumferential. It is 6 cm. from the distal
margin of resection and approximately 11 cm. from the proximal
margin. Sections after fixation and clearing. A portion of the
specimen is taken for research purposes. The fat is dissected off
the colon and there is an area that probably represents pericolonic
abscess immediately adjacent to the tumor. This area might be
associated with diverticulum. MLMzmen
Block summary: 1, 2 margins of resection; 3 ~ 7 tumor; A. 10—22
pericolonic lymph nodes.
B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "proximal
margin of sigmoid colon“ and consists of a piece of white-
and yellow soft tissue with stapes in it. The specimen measures 4

l x 0.4 cm. RS—l.

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A.

Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma
Tumor grade: 2 out of 3
Tumor size: 6 cm
Distance to nearest margin: 6 cm
Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates into
pericolonic fat.
Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy
Vascular invasion: Absent

Host response: Marked acute and chronic inflammation. One
area resembles a diverticulum with pericolonic abscess,
' diverticulum destruction and carcinoma
(block A?)
Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy
in any of 30 lymph nodes.
Nonwlymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent
pTNM Stage: T3 N0

B. Negative for malignancy
5, 3
DIAGNOSIS
A. Sigmoid colon, segmental resection:
Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma
Note: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into

pericolonic soft tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy
in any of 30 pericolonic lymph nodes.‘

B. Sigmoid colon, proximal margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy

 

