 

UUIDiBAGEABSB-FDBZ-4E63-AD3E-E60236ABA7F7
TCGA-ZF-ABRN-OlA-PR Rﬁﬁmtﬁ'ted ' ' ‘

IllIIII|||||||ll||||ll|||||ll|Illllllllllllllllllllllllll
I III Ill
llIllll'lllll'llllllll'llllllllllllll'l'il'llllu'llllmm W

SPECIMEN

l Bladder, uterus, ovaries and cervix.
2 Left ureteric resection margin

3 Right ureteric resection margin
CLINICAL DETAILS

Cystectomy for bladder cancer.
MACROSCOPY

1 - Radical cystectomy specimen with attached uterus, ovaries and anterior

vaginal wall.

The bladder is approximately 90 mm diameter and has associated adipose tissue
around it. On the attached peritoneal surface there is an irregular

haemorrhagic mass approximately 15 mm diameter, suggesting extension of tumour.
Opening the bladder reveals a fungating mass arising from the posterior wall and
with extensive surface necrosis. The tumour is approximately 70 mm diameter and
is attached by a broad base. In addition, the background mucosa has a 20 mm
separate mass and also two further 4 mm ﬂattish nodules. Section through the
mass shows extension through the bladder wall to come close to the peritoneal
surface. Overall tumour thickness is approximately 40 mm. Away from the main
and smaller tumour nodules the bladder mucosa appears normal, though there is
marked trabeculation of the bladder. The urethra measures 25 mm and has normal
surface mucosa, but there is 5 mm nodule between the midpoint of the urethra and
the anterior vaginal wall.

The uterus measures 60 mm supero-inferiorly, and there is no apparent
abnormality of cervix, endometrium or myometrium. The leﬁ ovary measures 20
mm, the right 18 mm, and both show senile atrophy with no further abnormality of
them or of the fallopian tubes.

2 - This is 5 mm of ureter.

3 - This is 9 mm of ureter.

 

Block designation:

Specimen l

A = tumour peritoneum J = background mucosa anterior
B = haemorrhagic area on peritoneum K = background mucosa
C = tumour and adjacent normal L = urethra midpoint
D-E = composite full depth of tumour M = urethra margin
F = tumour & background mucosa N = cervix

G = tumour left lateral with invasion of fat 0 = endometrium
H = 20 mm separate nodule tumour P = left ovary and tube
I = 5 mm nodules of tumour Q = right ovary and tube
MICROSCOPY

l - The tumour is composed of extensive sheets of undifferentiated carcinoma

cells with small areas of necrosis. In addition, some areas show squamous 591A) I35, MI?" SWWL
differentiation with keratinisation. These features would be consistent with

transitional cell carcinoma, grade 3, with squamous differentiation. Similar

tumour is seen in the main mass and in the separate nodules.

The tumour invades right through the bladder wall to reach adipose tissue, and

there is also extravesical lymphovascular invasion. The haemorrhagic tissue on

the peritoneal surface is further tumour. In general the tumour seems 2 or 3 mm

clear of the peritoneal surface, but this peritoneal deposit of tumour suggests

there may be a focus with invasion, or local lymphatic spread to the surface.

In addition, there is a nodule of tumour in the septum between midpoint urethra
and anterior vaginal wall.

Two tiny lymph nodes in perivesical adipose tissue show reactive changes without
tumour. The usual regional lymph nodes have not been supplied.

AWay from the tumour, the bladder epithelium is either normal, or shows a minor
degree of glandular differentiation. The urethra mucosa and resection margin is
normal.

The uterus shows no histological abnormality apart from atrophy, and the same
applies to the ovaries.

2 & 3 - These samples show normal ureters.

SUMMARY

Radical cystectomy with hysterectomy; transitional cell carcinoma of bladder,
WHO 1973 Grade 3, pT3b, pNx with positive peritoneal surface.

Pathologists -

 

 

