 

 

UUID:5749AEBS-OBED-433E-8CDA-3044156FFE66
TCGA-FX-A3NK-01A-PR Redacted
lllllllllll

- - Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllll
surgma' Pat“°'°9y Rem Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Wampum l||lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
W

   

Result type: Surgical Pathology Report
Result dale:

Result status: Modiﬁed

Result title: Surgical Pathology Report
Performed by:

Veriﬁed by:

Encounter info:

* Final Report *

Ordering Provider

Ordering Physician:

Clinical History

Gastric mass; reported GIST (no recent biopsy at l ; prior reactive
myofibroblastic proliferation with oastric ulceration in We"), previously
reviewed at . ); ioft nephrectomy in a for

xanthogranulomatous inflammation

lab» or} 9 /
S eclmen , . T 05W 353’ 3
it? Omental nodule diva/f‘l’yﬂﬁ‘ﬁ‘ ﬂ?
#2 Subtotal gastrectomy Sikh: 549M) UIJS C/b-q
#3 Gastric margin (stitch in margin) /AJ
#4 Proximal stomach [/7/1}
#5 Omentum

Gross Examination

#1 Labeled "omental nodule", is a 1.9 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm fragment of adipose tissue
which is inked and sectioned to reveal a 0.7 cm in diameter firm, tan yellow
mottled nodule. It is completely submitted in "lA,lB". '" ' “

#2 Portion of stomach: Received in the fresh state is a portion of stomach
roughly 25.8 cm in length (along the lesser curvature and roughly 14.5 cm in
length along the lesser curvature. The specimen is oriented intraoperatively
courtesy of Drs. and . Along the proximal portion of the stomach is a
row of metallic sutures rougniy 16 cm in length. It is understood that the most
cephalad portion of the-specimen represents the area of the proximal gastric
resection margin. The serosal surface contains scattered adhesions but is
otherwise unremarkable. Near the area of the cephalad sutures is a mucosal
based polypoid tumor roughly 8.5 x 5.5 x 5.0 cm. The polyp is attached to the
underlying mucosa by a thin band of soft pink tissue roughly 2.5 cm in length x
2.0 cm width and 0.5 cm in thickness. Roughly 4 cm distal to the large polyp is
a smaller sessile polypoid area roughly 1.2 x 1.0 cm in diameter and averaging
0.3 cm in thickness. A small amount of perigastric adipose tissue is present
along the greater curvature. A few small lymph node candidates are identified.
The specimen is re-evaiuated following overnight fixation in

Printed by: - Page 1 of 3
Printed on: (Continued)

 

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

* Final Report “

Sampled in sixteen cassettes. Block summary: "A", distal (duodenal resection
margin) perpendicular resection; "B", proximal gastric resection margin
(tangential section); "C", stalk of mucosal polypoid tumor; "D—H", mucosal
polypoid tumor; "1,3". gastric wall adjacent to polyp; "K,L", distal polypoid
area; "M", random gastric section; "N-P", perigastric lvmnh ends nandidarpq:
"0—? Additional periqastric lymph node candidates

l

#3 Labeled "gastric margin, stitch in margin", is a 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm fragment
of gastric mucosa. Half of the fragment has underlying gastric wall. There is a
3.0 cm long staple line which is removed and retained in formalin. The
underlying mucosa is representative perpendicular sections "3A,3B”.

#4 Labeled with the patient' 8 name and "proximal stomach", is a 7.0 x 3.5 x
3.0 cm segment of stomach which has been previously partially opened. There is
a 3.4 cm long staple lined and 7.0 cm long staple line. The remainder of the
specimen is opened. There are no mucosal lesions identified. There are diffuse
dark brown areas. Dr. has reviewed the gross pathology. Block summary:
"4A,4B", representative sections abutting each staple line; "ac-4F",
representative central sections.

#5 Labeled with the patient' 3 name and omentum, is a 2l.0 x 11.0 x up to
3.0 cm fragment of omentum which is sectioned in 0.4 cm increments. There are
no nodules identified. On the surface there is a light tan nodule 0.2 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in "5A,SB", the
described nodule is submitted in "SA". '

Microscopic Examination

#l-S Microscopic examination performed. Sections from the large pedunculated
gastric polyp show a bland spindle cell proliferation with entrapped collagen
fibers and scattered foci of eosinophils, lymphocytes and plasma cells. The
process extends to the mucosal surface and envelopes benign gastric glands.
There is no necrosis and there are no atypical mitotic figures. Immunostains
are evaluated. The spindle cells show the following findings: SMA(+), c—kit(-),
C034{-). S~100(‘), CD68(patchy +).

Comment

The stomach resection contains two polypoid lesions. One is a large
pedunculated polyp comprising a bland spindle cell process similar to that “can
in the prior gastric resection in , which was reviewed at the -

The second polyp is sessile and contains a less cellular fibroblastic
proliferation. The pertinent slides from the current case will be sent to
for consultation. Upon receipt of the consultant' 5 diagnosis, an amended

report will be issued. Urs. and have also reviewed the case.
Hart #2 was reviewed by Dr. at ( . The
Printed by: Page 2 of 3

Printed on: (Continued)

 

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report

* Final Report '

smaller, sessile gastric polyp consists of an atypical lipomatous proliferation,
consistent with a well—differentiated liposarcoma. The larger, pedunculated
polyp contains a bland spindle cell proliferation. Taken in the context of the
lipomatous tumor, the spindle cell process is consistent with deedifferentiated
liposarcoma. The report indicates that FISH studies Show CFM gene
amplification, further supporting the diagnosis of iiposarcoma. The final
diagnosis was phoned to the office of Dr. on , The report is
amended to include the external consultant' s diagnosis.

This report is amended to correct the date entered for the Amended Final
Diagnosis from ‘ The diagnosis itself is not changed.

Signature Line
Signed by:
ELECTRONIC S IGNA’I‘URE

Final Diagnosis

#1 SOFT TISSUE, OMENTUM, EXCISION: FAT NECROSIS.

#2 STOMACH, SUBTOTAL GASTRECTOMY: PENDING EXTERNAL CONSULTATION. (SEE
COMMENT)

#3 STOMACH MARGIN, FURTHER EXCISION: SEGMENT OF BENIGN STOMACH.

#4 STOMACH, PROXIMAL, RESECTION: SEGMENT OF BENIGN STOMACH.

#5 SOFT TISSUE, OMENTUM, EXCISION: BENIGN'ADIPOSE TISSUE.

AMENDED FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
#2 STOMACH, SUBTOTAL GASTRECTOMY:
LIPOSARCOMA WITH DE—DIFFERENTIATION, FORMING TWO POLYPOID MASSES
WITHIN
THE STOMACH (8.5 CM AND 1.2 CM)’
MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE. (SEE COMMENT OF

Printed by: Page 3 of 3
Printed on: (End of Report)

 

