  

TCGA - 66—2795

 

Material examined:

Mediastinal squamous epithelium

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma left upper lobe, attempted angioplasty upper lobe, discontinuation with central tumor in

REPORT ON FINDINGS

Macroscopy

l.) Mediastinal squamous epithelium: 0.6 cm hard pale brownish specimen. Inﬂated, ﬁxed left lung measuring
1? x 12 cm at the base and up to 27 cm high, central bronchus resection plane located 3 cm proximal to the
bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus. A staple suture line runs from the hilus in a ventrocaudal direction over
the upper and lower lobes for 7.5 cm in each case and dorsal over S2 and 6 for 6.5 cm in each case, evidently
correSponding staple suture lines. Main bronchus largely skeletonized. At the hilus four partly lesioned, mobile
blackish nodes between 0.4 and 0.8 cm. Resection margin of pulmonary artery‘shows high-grade lesion. Apical
and lateral region over Si, 2 and 3 shows a 16 x 14.5 cm area of parietal pleura that shows predominantly
extensive adhesion and marginally loose attachment in parts. Ostium of upper lobe bronchus constricted by a
central moderately ﬁrm, pale brown to whitish tumor, max. 4.9 cm in size, in the upper lobe, with a
predominantly relatively clear and arcuate demarcation and patchy grayish—black pigmentation in parts.
Extension of tumor right up to liilar resection surface, where 1.5 cm is questionably part of the pericardial sac,
which is not macroscopically inﬁltrated. Involvement of some grayish-black nodes up to 1.5 cm in size by the
tumor. Narrowing of numerous blood vessels and questionable wall inﬁltration of an already patent pulmonary
artery branch of the upper lobe, with not tumor tissue discernible in the lumen. In S3 at the junction with S3
laterally below the section of parietal pleura is a 3.5 cm hemorrhagic zone, partly with a clear demarcation,
extending to the pleura. Peripheral bronchi of the upper lobe in parts slightly dilated and ﬁlled with thick
mucus, rest of parenchyma of the upper and lower lobes inconspicuous. From the bifurcation of the bronchus
into the basal lower lobe bronchi, three blackish nodes between 0.4 and 0.7 cm. In the subpleural region in 86 at
the junction with SS a 0.3 cm ﬂat blackish node.

3.) Repeat resection material from pulmonary artery: irregular portion of puhnonary artery measuring 3.7 x max
1.3 cm

4.) lnteriobar LN (station ll): 0.7 cm lesioned node

5.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9): 0.6 cm node with surrounding tissue.

6.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8): 0.6 cm node with surrounding tissue.

7.) Paraaortic LN (station 6): two lesioned grayish—black nodes or node parts , 0.8 and 0.4 cm.

8.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: 1 cm node with surrounding tissue.

9.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 0.4 cm node.

 

Examined:

Re 1.) Rapid section remains,

Re 2.) a: Tumor with rest of parenchyma, b: tumor with ostium of upper lobe bronchus and involved nodes as
well as central blood vessels, c: tumor with puhnonary artery upper lobe branch, d: tumor with hilar resection
surface (color-marked), e: tumor with questionable portion of pericardial sac (resection margin color-marked),
f: hemorrhagic zone, g: pleural adhesion zone in Si, h: central bronchus resection plane and resection margin
pulmonary artery, i: mobile hilar nodes and resection margin pulmonary veins, j: node subpleural and at the
bronchus bifurcation of the lower lobe,

Re 3.)—9.) All material (in 3. preparation lamellated),

16 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS.

Microscopy
Re 1.) Immediate intraoperative evaluation -): squamous cell carcinoma.
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Locally advanced, central, bronchopulmonaiy, histologically poorly differentiated, large-cell and
polymorphcceliular, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe of the lung (G3). Tumor
classification according to this picture pT4 le V1 RX(R1?), stage 1113 C34.M8070/3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Tumor necroses. Active resorptive alveolar and lymphofollicular interstitial inﬂammation in the lung
parenchyma adjacent to the tumor. Lung tissue necrosis with marginal organizing and ﬁbrous remodeling
process under the pleural adhesion area in 81. Fresh hemorrhagic pulmonary infarction in the boundary region
of 81/83. Fibrinous pleuritis and pleural adhesions. Moderate anthracotic pigment deposits in the lung
parenchyma and varying degrees of partly mixed dust pigment deposits in the lymph nodes with reactive
accumulation of macrophages.

Remark/addendum:

The carcinoma shows partially endobronchial growth as far as the ostium of the upper lobe, continuously
metastasized to local bronchopulmonary lymph nodes with invasion via the mediastinal pleura into the
mediastinum, where it reaches the resection plane in places. This ﬁnding explains the pT4 classiﬁcation,
although the evidently co-resected layer of parietal pericardium is not reached or inﬁltrated by the tumor. The
precondition is thus also met for the R1 category. If this area is directly followed by the preparation registered
under 1.), which is likewise marginally occupied by tumor, a category of R0 may also be diagnosed. Large
pulmonary vessels are only surrounded, but not invaded by tumor. The resection margins of the main bronchus,
the large pulmonary vessels, the lower lobe of the lung and all other lymph nodes are tumor—free.

 

