 

' ' "a nosis & Histo :
with right renal mass.
Sgecimens Submitted:
1: SP: Kidney, right, nephrectomy _

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Kidney, right, nephrectomy_
Tumor Type:
Renal ceii carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade IllIV

\

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 4.5 cm.

Lccat Envasion (for renal cortical types):
Not identiﬁed

Renal Vein Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremarkable

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomaloncocytoma:
th Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

 

F
—

Page 1 of 2

 

 

Gross Description:

 

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis, labeled, "Right kidney“. It consists of a 26.0 x 12.0 x 6.5 cm
nephrectomy specimen with abUndant attached perinephric fat. The specimen is bivalved revealing a 10.0 x 6.0 x 5.0 cm kidney
with a 4.5 x 4.5 x 3.5 cm circumscribed yellow mass within the renal cortex mld-pole and extending into the adjacent perinephric
fat. Gross hemorrhage is identiﬁed. The mass does not extend into the pelvi-calyceal system. The renal vein is grossly
uninvolved by tumor. The adrenai gland is not present within the specimen. The specimen is serially sectioned for lymph node
identiﬁcation and no lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed. The remaining renal parenchyma is serially sectioned at 0.5 cm intervals
and does not reveal any other grossiy obvious lesions. TPS and photographs are taken.

Summary of Sections:

FSC ~ frozen section control

MARG - vascular and ureteral margins
NL — representative normal

MASS ~ mutiipie sections of mass

Summary of Sections:
. Part 1: SP: Kidney, right, nephrectomy (is) (pjmllmg)

Block Sect. Site P05
1 fsc ‘ .‘I
1 marg i
6 mass 6
1 hi i

Intraopcrative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the
tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consuitalion.
1) FROZEN SECTION DiAGNOStS: RENAL CELL CARCINOMA. CONVENTIONAL-

PERMANENT DIAGNOSISSAME

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

