UUID:C1ABCD83-40EA-4FF7-BE36-69679589EBE7

m“c'“illﬁii'li‘lii'iﬁllullInIuI'ililil’liﬁlted
iiilliii'iiliillil'lii'liiiiillllllliillluluuuuln“mull

Ill llll ii i ll i ll Illlllilllll l lllll ||I|||| ll Illl ll Illllll Ill

1

       

 
 
      
   
   

     

Collectedi‘ Accession ii:
Received: ' Acct I Reg #:
W‘
SURGlCA'L PATHOLOGY REEB'RT“””‘

  

DIAGNOSIS: ,
A. Left breast a xiliary contents. radical mastectomy:
Tumor haracteristlcs:

1 . Histologic typei;inyseii}e'iobtiiI”5r carcinoma”?
2. Size: 2.1 cm linear measurement as measured on slide A3.
3. Elston modulation of Bloom-Richardson grade:
a. Architectural Score:3l3.
b. Nuclear Score: 313. I ‘ A; i"
C. Mitotic Score: 1/3. .
d. Total score: 7/9=Grade: 2. MA , 5/ 3 I
Lymphovaswiar space invasion. No. cam/WW W; \ {’AALiéh/j / 5 Z , NU 35? 0/3

 

 

v
u. I
l‘ n

Skin involvement: No.

Are mlcroceiciftcatlone identiﬁed in association with tumor: No.

lnsiiucomponentzAbeent . ' 51%;: W N05 650 '9
Surgical Margin Status:

#99.“

6// a///

is tumor transected: No.

Tumor distance to closest margin: 0.7 cm from deep margin
Lymph Node Statue:

Total number of lymph nodes examined within specimen A: Ten.
Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma by gross exam or light microscopy: One.
Size of largest metastasis: 0.26 cm.

Extra-capsular extension of tumor: Yes.
Other:

1 . Other signiﬁwnt ﬁndings: Focus of ﬁbrosis and hemorrhage compatible with prior biopsy site: mild ﬁbrocystic change featuring apocrlne metapiaels;
focal ﬂorid ductai hyperpiasia.

[9.x

959.”?

B. Lymph node. left axillary. excision:
isolated single cell micrometestasee identiﬁed with immunohistochemlstry (pancytoiteralln). not Identiﬁed on H&E.

Electronic Signature: -
comments: '

This case has been reviewed by”

Breast carcinoma prognostic indicator analysis was performed on the biopsy specimen . A repeat of this analysis on the present specimen
will not be obtained unless requested by the primary clinician. '2
No deﬁnite tumor is identiﬁed with the HE stained slide of the permanent control of the frozen section material (Specimen B - Left axillary node). ' ‘

pTNM: T2N1MX. l

 

CLINICAL INFORl‘iATlON

 

 

 

 

’L

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologlc Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Leﬁ breast and axillary contents
B. Axillary node (left)

SPECIMEN DAIA

G 8 DESCRIPTION:
#‘t labeled left breast and aidllary mutants is a 581 gram left modiﬁed radical mastectomy specimen. 23.8 x 11.5 x 3.5 cm. The specimen Is
3 al y covered by a 21.1 x 9.9 cm ellipse of ten skin. Eccentitcaiiy located is a non-retracted nipple surrounded by areois complex, 2.8 cm in diameter.
The specimen is inked and sectioned to display a circumscribed tan white ﬁbrous appearing nodule. 2.9 x 2.8 x 2.7 cm. The lesion is 0.7 cm from the
deep inked margin.

The remainder of the cut surface displays at least 50% Interspersed blue-pink ﬁbrous tissue. Additional lesions are notiﬁentiﬁed.

The axillary contents measure 8.2 x 5.5 x 1.7 cm. On sectioning and palpation. nine lymph nodes are ldenuried ranging from 0.3 to 1.4 cm In greatest
dimension.

Representative sections are submitted as follows: 1--nipple; 2~lesion to Inked margin: 3 and 4—addltlonai sections of lesion; 6--unlnvolved tissue lower

outer quadrant; e—upper outer quadrant; 7»upper Inner quadrant: aniower Inner quadrant: 9 and 10-indlvldual nodes In each cassette: ii-one node

bisected; 12—two whole nodes. Two cassettes for research ‘ .

Plebeied axillary node left Is a previously bisected tan yellow lymph node received for frozen. 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm. entirely resubmitted In one
sseite

MBImaD

INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION: -

FSB: 'No definite tumor ldentlﬁed‘ per ‘

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: .

Microscopic examination performed.

 

 

 

