UUID: 5980F031- 6C96- H4500 8324- 5D77794R20391a

TCGA- xo- AAUG- an-Pn lCiD'b <3

Illllllﬂ ||l|||||||||| ||||||||||||l||||||||||||cl|ecI 5001
III lllll I llllll W M MAS 3’ 3
Illl "EIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll NIH“ IlllIllllllllllllllllllllllIlll 6“! m l / 455‘,

ll||I|
Collected date and time:
Wm mea Q $1557
Clinical Information q 5 3 5 )621/ [4,}

Unspeciﬁed disease of pancreas

 

 

 

 

Surg Path Addendum

This addendum is to correct the tumor location from pancreatic neck to distal pancreas in Pathology
Synoptic Report as follows:

Tumor location: distal pancreas by history

Per conversation with the metastatic pancreatic carcinoma infiltrates the posterior cervix
rather than the anterior cervix. Therefore, the diagnosis of specimen C is amended as follows:

C.‘ UTERUS, TUBES, OVARIES, HYSTERECTOMY AND BlLATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

— Metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma diffusely inﬁltrating posterior cervical wall
- Atrophic endometrium with a benign endometrial polyp

- Uterine leiomyoma with hyalinizing degeneration

— Benign serous cyst of right ovary

- Paratubal cyst of left fallopian tube

— Left ovary and right fallopian tube, no speciﬁc pathologic changes

There are no changes to the remainder of the diagnosis and pathology synoptic.

Original report verified

---------------------- end of addendum----———-----------—-—-
Diagnosis
A. PANCREAS, NEAR TOTAL PANCREATECTOMY:

— Ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas, moderately to poorly differentiated, approximate tumor size 3.2 x
2.4 cm

— Tumor focally extending to peripancreatic fat

— Extensive perineural invasion by carcinoma identified

— Focally suspicious for lymphatic space invasion

- Stabled pancreatic margin containing pancreatic duct, negative for invasive carcinoma (see comment)

- Carcinoma focally extending to less than 1 mm of inked peripancreatic soft tissue margin
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving one out of twelve peripancreatic lymph nodes (1/12)
— Marked dilatation of pancreatic duct with focal Pancreatic lntraepithelial Neoplasia 2 (PanlN-Z)

B. SPLEEN, SPLENECTOMY:
— Congestion of splenic red pulp, negative for tumor

C. UTERUS, TUBES, OVARIES, HYSTERECTOMY AND BlLATERAL SALPlNGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

— Metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma involving anterior cervical wall
— Atrophic endometrium with a benign endometrial polyp

— Uterine leiomyoma with hyalinizing degeneration

- Benign serous cyst of right ovary

- Paratubal cyst of left fallopian tube

- Left ovary’and right fallopian tube, no speciﬁc pathologic changes

Comment: The stapled pancreatic parenchymal margin containing pancreatic duct is free of invasive

carcinoma; there is Pancreatic lntraepithelial Neoplasia lB (PanlN-lB) involving the pancreatic ductal
margin.

This case was reviewed at the

Pathology Synoptic
Specimen type: Near total pancreatectomy, splenectomy, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy
Tumor location: Pancreatic neck per history
Histologic type: Ductal adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated
Tumor size: 3.2 x 2.4 cm
Invasion of:
Tumor extends beyond the pancreas, but without involvement of celiac axis or SMA
Lymphatic invasion: Suspicious
Large vessel invasion: Not identified
Margins:
Common bile duct: NA
Proximal duodenal or gastric margin: N/A
Distal duodenal margin: N/A
Proximal pancreatic margin: Negative for invasive carcinoma; the pancreatic duct margin shows
PanlN-lB
Peripancreatic soft tissue margin: Negative; carcinoma focally extends to less than 1 mm of
peripancreatic soft tissue margin (cytokeratin stain highlights cancer glands)
Total regional lymph nodes: 12 Number positive: 1
AJCC Pathologic Stage: pT3, N1, M1

Dictated and authenticated by:

Performing Location:

Gross Description

A. PANCREAS

Received fresh labeled with the patient name

Description: Unoriented 46 g, 9.2 x 3.5 x 2.8 cm segment of pancreas with the tenuously attached 12 x
10 x 1.5 cm portion of omental apron. Duodenum and bile ducts are not present. Prior to sectioning the
stapled margin of the pancreas is stained with green dye. As the pancreas is received without
orientation, all remaining surfaces are stained black. A poorly defined 3.2 x 2.4 x 1.7 cm tumor is found
approximately 2 cm from the stapled margin. The tumor is grossly free of all margins. Much of the
pancreas demonstrates dilated pancreatic ducts, fat necrosis and ﬁbrosis. There is no gross appearance
of tumor involving the omentum. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes.

SECTIONS:

A1. Stapled margin en face

A2—5. All of the tumor

A6-11 sequential sections of the adjacent fibrosed pancreas
A12-14. 9 representative sections of the omentum

A15. 4 lymph nodes

A16. One lymph node trisected and all submitted

B. SPLEEN:
Received in formalin labeled with the patient name
Description: 98 g, 6.2 x 5.2 x 4.9 cm partially disrupted spleen. Hilar fat reveals no gross lymph nodes or

accessory spleen. The cut surfaces are homogeneous, white pulp is well delineated, no gross
appearance of tumor.

SECTIONS:
B1—2. Representative sections

C. UTERUS, TUBES, OVARIES

Received in formalin labeled with the patient name

Specimen received: Uterus with attached right fallopian tube and ovary, left fallopian tube and
separately submitted left ovary

Integrity: Received disrupted

Weight and size of uterus with cervix: 45 g, 6.8 x 5.7 x 4.9 cm

Serosa: Posterior serosa is roughened

Endometrial cavity: 4.3 x 1.4 cm, endometrium averages 0.1 cm in thickness, 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm posterior
fundic endometrial polyp

Myometrium: Myometrial wall averages 1 cm in thickness, 0.6 cm anterior intramural myoma
Cervix: 1.8 cm in diameter, exocervix congested and roughened

Right ovary: 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm containing a 0.9 cm serous cyst

Right fallopian tube: 4.2 x 0.6 cm, no gross abnormality
Left ovary: 1.1 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm, roughened serosa
Left fallopian tube: 4.3 x 0.6 cm, no gross abnormality

SECTIONS:

C1. Posterior cervix

C2. AnteriorPosterior cervix

C3. 2 futhickness sections of the anterior uterine wall with all of the myoma

04—5. 2 full—thickness sections of the posterior uterine wall to include all of the endometrial polyp
C6. All of the right ovary

C7. 2 cross sections of right fallopian tube and all of the right fimbriated end in longitudinal section
C8. All of the left ovary in 2 sections

C9. 2 cross sections of left fallopian tube and all of the fimbriated end in longitudinal section

Surg Path Non-Chartable Comment
Edited by:

  

. Prior Malignancy His I
Dual/Synchronous '

.‘ use is ”WM!
Reviewer lniu'als __

 

