UUID:131093C4- 54AB-43CA-BSOG-GEOMBIAMSA

mnuluﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁim” “darted
mnunummmmmmm'H'M'u'lh'h'u'h'u'l’llﬂﬂ'u'l"!“u""

INHIHHHIIHHHMIIHHHIINHHIHIHMHHIMHI”Ml

 

séRGICAL EA‘TﬂOLQVCﬁ‘f;

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

0, . ‘ .
copy TO: .—,~ WWW/013

52f“! ﬁgment”; Has 374013
8212 W dbl—‘2

Pre—Op Diagnosis 9%) 5/14/’5

Prostate cancer
Post—Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
‘rose Description:
Received in a single container labeled ”m prostate"
is a previously inked, previously sectioned moderately distorted
prostate gland with attached bilateral seminal vesicles. The
specimen is received after tissue harvest for genomic study. Within
the specimen container are three tissue cassettes labeled

The specimen in the intact state weighs 67 grams
with the prostate qland measuring 5.5 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm. This has a
lobulated fooally shaggy outer surface with prominent verumontanum
at the base. The urethra is 3.2 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm and patent with
evidence of compression by the lateral lobes. The cut surface
reveals multinodular gray ten to pink fibrotic cut surface witn,
focal nodular areas having a slight yellow discoloration. These are
scattered through both lateral lobes in the mid to groximal (basal)
regions as well as focally extending to the posterior lobes on both
sides. A single discrete gross lesion is not identified. A few of
the chalky yellow appearing regions extend focally to within 0.1 cm
of the nearest inked surfaces. The seminal vesicles together are
5.6 x 3.2 x 1.2 cm. These have lobulated ten pink outer surfaces
with areas of fragmentation. On sectioning there is a multicystic
gray tan fibrotic cut surface. No gross lesions are identified.
Representative sections are submitted as labeled as follows: A —
radial apical (distal) margin, left; 8 - radial apical (distal)
margin; right; C ~ shave vesical (proximal) margin; 0 ~ left lateral

r1

lobe distal; o — right lateral lobe distal; F ~ left posterior lobe

. MN, m m 4nm~mmwﬁmm

 

 

 

distal; G « right posterior lobe distal; H — left lateral lobe mid
region: I — right lateral lobe mid region; J - left posterior lobe
mid region; K - right posterior lobe mid region; L ~ left lateral
lobe proximal region; M * right lateral lobe proximal region; N -
left posterior lobe proximal region; Q - right posterior lobe
proximal region; P - origin of the seminal vesicles; Q -
representative left seminal vesicle; R - representative right
seminal vesicle.

Microscopic Description:

Reviewed are slides labeled“

Final Diagnosis
Prostate, prostatectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Histologio type: Adenocarcinoma.
Prostate size: 76 grams, 5.5 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm.
Tumor quantitation: Tumor involves approximately ﬁ% of total
tissue volume.
Gleason grade:
Primary pattern: 315
Secondary pattern: 4/5
Total Gleason score: 7/10
thraproetatic extension: Not identified (see comment).
Seminal vesicle involvement: Not identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
High grade PIN: Present.
Treatment effect: Not applicable.
Surgical margin status:
See comment.
Lymph node status:
Not applicable.
Other:
pTN stage: pTZc Nx PAS 9 SPC»A

Comments

Bistologic sections demonstrate adenooarcinoma extending up to the
surface of the specimen along the left posterior lobe mid region.
While definitive evidence of tumor transection is not identified,
this area is highly suspicious for extension of the neoplasm beyond
the plane of surgical resection. Further, while no extraprostatic
extension is identified in the sections examined, clinical
correlation and correlation with intraoperative findings is
recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have

been additionally reviewed ‘oy Dr. ~ who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the"

W

Tnmm Sue

   
 
 
  
 
  

  

IIHAA
o Jnor

use is
levVEV/er

 

 

