”ma allo‘olgic Diagnosis:

A. Lymph node, left level 9, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1 ).

B. Lung, left lower lobe, lobectomy:

Specimen: Left lower lobe of lung
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Left
Tumor site: Lower lobe
Specimen integrity: Intact
Tumor size: 1.8 cm (greatest dimension)
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with cribriform
architecture
Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: Absent
Tumor extension: Not applicable
Margins:
Bronchial: Negative
Vascular: Negative
Parenchymal: Negative
Parietal pleural: Not applicable
Chest wall: Not applicable

Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable
If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: >3 cm
Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Specify margin: Bronchial/vascular
Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Absent
Pathologic staging:
TNM descriptors: None
Primary tumor: pT1 a
Regional lymph nodes: pNO
Number examined: 5
Number involved: 0
Distant metastasis: pM (not applicable)
Additional pathologic findings: One hilar lymph node, negative for

malignancy (0/1), included in Synoptic Report above.

C. Lymph node, left level 5, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

D. Lymph node, left level 6, excisional biopsy:

One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

E. Lymph node, left level 7, excisional biopsy:
One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

FSB: (left lower lobe, dia nosis of mass :
Adenocarcinoma by

Elapsed time: 15 minutes

Gross Description:
Received are five formalin-filled containers labeled with the patient's name.

Part A is received additionally labeled "A) level 9 lymph node." The specimen
consists of a small fragment of tan-brown smooth to irregular soft tissue
measuring 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette A.

Part B is received additionally labeled "B) left lower lobe." The specimen is
initially received fresh. The specimen consists of a portion of lung measuring

13 x 11.5 x 4.5 cm. The pleural surface is purple-gray to tan and smooth with
mild to moderate anthracosis. Serial sectioning reveals a well circumscribed
firm tan mass measuring 1.8 x 1.4 x 1.4 cm and is located in the upper portion
of the lower lobe. The mass is >3 cm from the bronchial and vascular margins.
The remainder of the parenchyma is dark red to brown and congested. No other
masses or lesions are identified. A portion of the mass is submitted for frozen
section diagnosis. Residual frozen section tissue is submitted in cassette Bf. A
portion of the mass is also submitted to the Tissue Bank, as well as to diagnostics.
The mass measures 0.5 cm from the pleural surface. No lymph nodes are
identified.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1 : Residual frozen section tissue
B2: Bronchial margin
B3: Vascular margin
B4-8: Representative sections of mass
B9: Uninvolved lung parenchyma

Part C is received additionally labeled "0) level 5 lymph node." The specimen
consists of a small tan-brown irregular soft tissue fragment measuring 0.5 x 0.4
x 0.2 cm and is submitted in toto in cassette C.

Part D is received additionally labeled "D) level 6 lymph node." The specimen
consists of a single tan-brown irregular soft tissue fragment measuring 0.4 x

0.3 x 0.2 cm and is submitted in toto in cassette D.

Part E is received additionally labeled "E) level 7 lymph node." The specimen
consists of a single tan-brown irregular soft tissue fragment measuring 0.7 x
0.4 x 0.3 cm and is submitted in toto in cassette E.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

 

