 
  

CGA—BB-5164

 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

Kidney, right, right hand assisted laparoscopic nephrectomy
Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhnnan grade 3 of 4

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.2 cm

Extent of tumor invasion:

Capsular invasionfperirenai adipose tissue: tumor invades into capsule; perirenal (capsular) adipose tissue negative
for malignancy

Gerota' s fascia: negative for malignancy

Renal vein: negative for malignancy

Ureter: negative for malignancy

Venous (large vessel): positive for carcinoma (A1 1)

Lymphatic (small vessel): positive for carcinoma (A2)

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Perirenal adipose tissue: negative for malignancy
Gerota' s fascia: negative for malignancy

Renal vein: negative for malignancy

Renal artery: negative for malignancy

Ureter: negative for malignancy

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings:
- Mild arterial sclerosis.
- Tumor extends into perihilar fat (A1 1).

AJCC Staging:
pTBa
pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Clinical History:
The patient is with a clinical diagnosis of a right kidney mass. As per, radiology shows an enhancing mass in the
inferior pole.

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled "right kidney".

Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin
Type of specimen: Laparoscopic

Side of specimen: Right

Size and weight of specimen: 750 grams; 22.0 x 13.0 x 8.0 cm over all, kidney is 12.0 x 8.0 x 7.0 cm; the adrenal
gland is not present.

 

Orientation: The specimen has been received previously inked blue, which = perirenal fat.
Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Absent

Tumor description/site: Anatomic site: renal ceitex; lower pole; the tumor appears yellow to dark brown in color,
with variatioa across the entire greatest dimension. Focal necrosis is evident. The tumor is encapsulated.

Tumor size: 5.3 x 5.0 x 4.6 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent
Conﬁnement/non—conﬁnement to the kidney: Confined

Extent of invasion:
Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative
Gerota' s fascia: Negative
Renal vein: Negative
Ureter: Negative
‘ Other organs: N/A

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative, 1.0 cm away at closest approach
Renal vein: Negative, 2.0 cm away at closest approach

Renal altery: Negative, 2.0 cm away at closest approach

Ureter: Negative, 0.? cm away at closest approach

Description of kidney away from tumor: Tanfbrown in color with cortex measuring 0.6 cm and the average
medullary space measuring 0.7 cm. No other lesions or masses are noted.

Lymph nodes (hilar): N/A

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: No

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Yes
Digital photograph taken: No

Block Summary:

Inking: Blue/perirenal fat

Al - Ureter, vein, alteiy margin

A2 - Turner with inked perirenal fat, closest approach
A3 - Tumor with transition into normal parenchyma
A4-A8 - Tumor with capsule

A9 - Central tumor

A10 - Tumor and urothelium

A1 1 - Hilum, perpendicular section

A12 - Normal kidney and urothelium

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

 

 

