UUID: 401E4F48- SOFC- 4982-HAF71-81859F1R4A334a
TCGA-S4-ABRM-91A- PR

lHlllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IlllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllll Iminim“""'“"""“m

l lllllllllllllllllll

llllIllllllllllllllllllllllIllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllll .

Gender: Male ' ‘ NOS 8 E: i
WewW/M

Race: White SJ}, me N05 (125?)

Pathology Report: (W 6/ #1} I L)

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

Pancreaticoduodenectomy and splenectomy;

A. Liver segment:

- Hyalinized granuloma, no tumor.

B. Duodenal mass:

— Benign mesothelial cyst.

C. Gallbladder:

- Gallbladder without diagnostic abnormality.

D. Bile duct stent:

— Surgical hardware, consistent with stent.

E. Pancreatectomy:

— Invasive ductal adenocarcinoma (foamy gland type), arising from a
brand-duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (BD-IPMN). See pathologic
parameters. ‘ '

- One of nine lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/9).
F. Splenectomy:

- Spleen without diagnostic abnormality.

G. Gastric staple line:

- Portion of stomach, no tumor.

H. Omentum:

- Vascularized ﬁbroadipose tissue, no tumor.

PAN CREAS (EXOCRINE): Resection

Tumor Size
Greatest dimension: 6 cm
*Additional dimensions: 3 x 2.7 cm

Histologic Type (select all that apply)
Ductal adenocarcinoma

Intraductal papillary-mucinous carcinoma (BD-IPMN)
Invasive

Histologic Grade (ductal carcinoma only)
G3: Poorly differentiated

Margins (select all that apply)

Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1 mm
*Specify margin (if possible): Uncinate

Treatment Effect (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy)
(select all that apply)
No prior treatment

Lymph-Vascular Invasion
Present

Perineural Invasion
Present

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3, N1, MX

Primary Tumor (pT)

pT3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the
celiac axis or

the superior mesenteric artery

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)

le: Regional lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number examined: 9
Number involved: 1

Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

*Eﬁ‘ective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for pancreas exocrine of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC)
and the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Comment
The tumor invades into the duodenal wall, the serosal side of the adhesed
gastric wall. A cystic lesion (slide E15) exhibits features of a branch duct-

intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm. Therefore, the invasive carcinoma is
interpreted as arising from the IPMN.

XXX

[L MD.

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], MD

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD.

Clinical History:

The patient is a -year-old male with pancreatic cancer who undergoes Whipple
procedure.

Specimens Received:
A: Liver segment

B: Duodenal mass
C: Gallbladder

D: Bile duct stent

E: Pancreatectomy
F: Spleenectomy

G: Gastric staple line
H: Omentum

Gross Description:

The specimens are received in eight containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identified as, "1. Liver segment".

Received fresh for intraoperative diagnosis is a red black irregular soft tissue
fragment measuring 0.9 X 0.7 x 0.1 cm which is entirely frozen. The diagnosis is
"scar, no tumor" as read by Dr. D. The entire specimen is submitted it Al FS.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "2. Duodenal mass".
Received fresh for intraoperative diagnosis is a tan-yellow soft tissue fragment
measuring 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm which is entirely frozen. The diagnosis is "cyst,
benign" as read by Dr. H. The entire specimen is submitted as Bl F S.

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "3. Gallbladder".

Received fresh in a laparoscopic bag is a 7.5 x 3.8 x 2.8 cm gallbladder. The
serosa is tan-pink, glistening and cauterized along the hepatic attachment. The
specimen is opened adjacent to the bile duct revealing green-tan, velvety mucosa
with diffuse gold speckling. The mucosal wall thickness is 0.2 cm. The opened
specimen reveals multiple yellow, friable stones measuring from 0.3-0.5 cm in
greatest dimension. Grossly, the stones do not obstruct the bile duct. There is

3 ml of viscous brown bile. Representative sections of the fundus, body, and

bile duct margin are submitted in cassette Cl.

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "4. Bile duct stent".
Received is a 6.5 cm in length by 0.8 cm in diameter gray wire metal stent which

is intact. A photograph is taken. This is a gross description only.

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "5.

Pancreaticoduodenectomy including total pancreatectomy". Received fresh and
placed in formalin is a Whipple specimen that consists of a 14 cm in length
segment of duodenum with an internal circumference of 7 cm, 7.5 x 5.5 x 1.5 cm
segment of distal stomach, and 13 x 4.5 by 4 cm portion of pancreas. The
uncinate margin is inked black, the portal vein groove margin is inked blue, and
the posterior margin is inked red. The margins are trimmed, serially sectioned
and submitted. The common bile duct is dilated at the resection margin with a
diameter of 0.7 cm. Serial sectioning of the pancreas reveals a 6 x 3 x 2.7 cm
ﬁrm, white, well-circumscribed mass with focally cystic areas and is located in
the tail of the pancreas. The mass is almost entirely replaces the pancreas. The
mass is less than 0.1 cm from the uncinate margin, less than 0.1 cm to the

portal vein groove margin, and 0.3 cm from the posterior margin. The mass
entirely obliterates the pancreatic duct and encases the common bile duct,
extending to involve the ampulla of Vater. The mass does not grossly invade the
duodenum and stomach wall. The remaining pancreatic parenchyma is yellow-tan,
rubbery and lobulated. In the pancreatic tail, the mass encases the splenic vein
and artery. The stomach and duodenum reveal grossly unremarkable, tan mucosa
with a uniform 0.4 cm wall thickness. The peripancreatic adipose tissue is

extensively dissected to reveal one pink-gray ﬁbrofatty lymph node measuring up
to 2.3 cm in greatest dimension.

Block summary:

E1: Bile duct margin

E2: Portal vein groove margin

E3—E4: Uncinate margin

E5-E7: Posterior margin

E8: Stomach margin

E9: Duodenal margin

E10: Mass in relation to ampulla of Vater

E11: Mass in relation to common bile duct

E12: Mass in relation to stomach

E13: Mass in relation to duodenum

E14: Mass, pancreatic tail, encasing splenic artery and vein
E15-17: Mass, pancreatic tail, cystic areas

E18: Mass in relation to stomach and uninvolved pancreas
El9-21 : Additional sections of mass

E22: One lymph node, bisected

E23-E30: Peripancreatic adipose tissue.

F. The sixth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "6. Splenectomy".

Received fresh is a 408.8 gm spleen measuring 14.5 x 9.5 x 5.5 cm with attached
yellow lobulated adipose tissue measuring 12.5 x 12 x 3 cm. The outer capsule is
smooth, purple—gray and glistening. The spleen is serially sectioned to reveal

soft, red-brown, homogenous cut surface with no masses or lesions. The
ﬁbroadipose tissue is extensively dissected for lymph nodes; none are found. No
nodules are lesions are present in the ﬁbroadipose tissue. Representative
sections are submitted as follows:

F1-F2: Spleen

F3-F4: Fibroadipose tissue

G. The seventh container is additionally identiﬁed as, "7. Gastric staple
line". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a fragment of tan soft tissue
measuring 5.5 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. A staple line is present measuring 5 cm. The

staple line is removed and the remaining soft tissue is submitted in cassette
G 1 -G2.

H. The eighth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "8. Omentum". Received
fresh in place in formalin are multiple fragments of yellow, lobulated
ﬁbroadipose tissue weighing 546.7 g. The specimen is extensively dissected; no
nodules, lesions, or lymph nodes are identiﬁed. A representative section of the
specimen is submitted in cassette H1.

XXX
[1. MD.

 
  
  
  
 
 

 

 

NINA Discrepancy

Pribl Histcr

  

East: Is
items-we! lrnlials

Primary Tunrm,r Site Discrepanm

 

