UUID:223D6CAF-EC1D-4538-A14B-01FBBB7453A4
TCGA-IE-A4EJ-91A-PR Redacted

Operative Procedure:
Right thigh soft tissue sarcoma excision

Specimen Received:
Right thigh sarcoma; stitch is distal

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

Soft tissue, right thigh, resection:
Pleomorphic undifferentiated sarcoma (8.5 cm in greatest dimension).
See Synoptic Report and Note below.

Synoptic Report
Procedure: Resection
Tumor site: Right thigh
Tumor size: 8.5 cm (greatest dimension)
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Intramuscular
Histologic type: Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma
Mitotic rate: 5/10 high-power fields (HPF)
Necrosis: Not identified
@ Histologic grade: High grade
Margins: Sarcoma extends to peripheral margin
Pathologic staging (pTNM)
TNM descriptors: None known
Primary tumor (pT): pT2b: Tumor more than 5 cm in greatest

dimension, deep tumor
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNx Cannot be assessed
Distant metastasis (pM): pr Cannot be assessed I C!) 0 1,3

Additional pathologic findings: None S WW“. owl/411W S’ 3 J‘s-l 3
. . . c .3—
. s
Ancillary studies 3 ‘ ‘4- ‘”“3k- N” W I
Immunohistochemistrv: Not performed ,4“! »
Cytogenetics: Not performed (1)734”;
Molecular Pathology: Not performed

Preresection treatment: No known therapy
Treatment effect: Not applicable

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

 

Gross Description:
The specimen is received in a single formalin filled container labeled with the
patient name and "right thigh sarcoma, stitch is distal" and

 

consists of a portion of ovoid fibromuscular soft tissue that is 14.8 x 11.0 x %
6.0 cm. There is a black stitch marking the distal aspect. This will be
designated as 6 o‘clock. The specimen has been previously incised one peripheral
aspect. The specimen is inked as follows: the previously incised peripheral
aspect is inked black and the opposite peripheral aspect in blue. Sectioning
reveals a white-tan somewhat soft mass that is 8.5 x 6.0 x 4.5 cm. This lesion
measures 4 cm from_~,the distal aspect and 4.5 cm from the proximal aspect. The
mass does not appear to be encapsulated; however the previously incised aspect
of the specimen has an overlying fibrous band which does not appear to be
penetrated by the tumor. Otherwise, the lesion does abut the ﬁbrous band. The
lesion is approximately 1 cm from the nearest not previously incised peripheral
aspect. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

1 distal tip;

2 proximal tip;

3-10 representative sections of mass to include the black inked surface
and blue inked surface.

Microscopic Description:

The ﬁnal diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: Gender: F

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
    
 

Critiru 3- ~:’ V
Diagnosis Discrepancy

Dim—"IV 1 umor Site Discrepancy
EM Dixn-pamy — ~ '
Prior Mali . nancy ltistou y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gin Mention

591::er lnitiais

