 

 

 

 

Name: Case 1!: .
DOB: (Age: Collected: :

Gender: F , Received: ‘
MRN: - Reported:
Location: Copy To:
Physician:

 

 

Pathologic Interpretation:
A. SENTINEL NODE no.1 AXILLA CONTENT

- No malignancy seen in one lymph node (011).
- Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.

B. RIGHT BREAST (SHORT STITCH SUPERIOR LONG STITCH LATERAL):

=l====u
lea-0'3
Wle/owwa View/9
Mu W m: croa? 4M" ,étr

- Invasive Iobuiar carcinoma. intermediate nuclear grade. with formation of two dominant tumoral masses. 4 0 cm and

1.0 cm.
- The tumor invades the dermal skin.
- Lymphovascular spaces invasion is identiﬁed.
- Specimen margin is negative for tumor.
- Metastatic carcinoma to two of eight lymph nodes (I218)

C. SENTINEL NODE No. 2 AXILLA COUNT
- No malignancy seen in one lymph node (011).
- lmmunohistochemistry for keratin to follow.

Tumgr Summary:

Specimen:

- Total breast

Procedure:

- Total mastectomy

Lymph Node Sampling:

- Sentinel lymph node

- Axillary dissection
Specimen Integrity:

- Single intact specimen
Specimen Size:

- Greatest dimension: 21 cm
" Additional dimension: 16 x 4 cm.
Laterality:

- Right

Tumor Site:

- Lower outer quadrant

- Upper inner quadrant

- Lower inner quadrant
Tumor Size:

- Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 4 cm.

- Additional dimensions: 1 x 1 cm.
Tumor Focality:
- Multiple focus of invasive carcinoma.
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:
- Skin: Satellite skin foci of invasive carcinoma are present
Lobuiar Carcinoma iN Situ (LClS):
- Present
Histologic Type:
- invasive iobular carcinoma
Hiatologic Grade:
- Overall Grade: Grade 2
Margins:
- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Lymph-Vascular invasion:
- Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular invasion:

 

' 2-3E15-4105-9A1A-1326CF12BBF8
UUID.04194F5 AiIN 01 ?edacted

Iii IIIIIIIiﬁiiTIiTiiI Illiilillliliiiﬁlililliil||||| Illlil IIIlI
iii nun uuumumun
|I‘ililillii|iﬂi‘|“1lllllllulilwmlllIlilillIllillII u l unuuinnm

 

_ suaeucmmompon

- Not identiﬁed.
Lymph Nodes:
- Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined. 2
- Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel): 10
- Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>02 cm): 2
Extranodal Extension:
- Not identified
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
- Hematoxylin and eosln (H&E. one level)
- immunohistochemistry.
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor:
- Performed on another specimen: Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).
Progesterone Receptor:

- Performed on another specimen: Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).

HERZIneu

- Performed on another specimen: Results: Equlvocal (Score 2+)
CiSH for HERZ/Neu: ‘

- Perfumed on another specimen: Results: Not ampliﬁed (HER2 gene copy <4.0 or ratio <1.8)

TNM Descriptors:
- m (multiple foci of invasive carcinoma)
Primary Tumor (Invasive Carcinoma) (pT).
- pT4b
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
- pN1a
Distant Metastasis (M):
- Not applicable

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): mpT3, Nta, M-not applicable

 

 

NOTE: Saue' " ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ‘ are snug/k (Ash) " 'byelr" 7.1'haalASberIelinimllywﬂlndkumthatdommmI-m‘ “vent”
IDS-ER. FIR Ole-PR. Ads-HER), H l l-EGFR. All ire-mundane! new are and Mtlrfcneaﬂn or mlecdnrﬁud, par-ﬂirt embedded tissue. Detection Jr by 1h
W a: purulve or negative
A: the attending pathologist. l attest that I: (i) Examined the rel preparation(:)
for the spectmen(s); and (ii) Rendered the diagnosisks).
mElectronically Signed Out By'“
Procedures/Addenda
Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
Date Reported:
Addendum Dlggn gglg

SENTINEL NODE # 1 AXILLA CONTENT
- immunohistochemistry for keratin stain' is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.

C. SENTINEL NODE # 2 AXILLA COUNT
- lmmunohistochemlstry tor keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.

 

 

Page 2 of 3

 

‘_ sunemmnepon

lngaogeratlvg Consultation

 

A. Sentinel node # 1 axilla content @ frozen section: Touch prep: Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

C. Sentinel node # 2 Axilla count ind Touch prep: Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

 

     

Cl l I it :
Lobular carcinoma

tion Pe orrne
Right breast total mastectomy; Possible axillary node dissection: Sentinel node biopsy

Pr e tiv DI nosl '
Breast cancer

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Sentinel node #1 axilla content: ' " ‘ ‘

B: Right breast (short stitch superior long stitch lateral)
C: Sentinel node it 2 Axilla count

Grog Description;

A. Received fresh is an ovoid pale tan tissue fragment. 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm. Blsected and submitted in toto in one ca
frozen section.

 

  
 

 

B. Received is a right mastectomy specimen with axillary tail, 21 x 16 x 4 cm. The specimen is oriented with s rt suture-
superior margin and long suture-lateral margin. At the anterior aspect. there is a segment of skin 10 x 5.5 x 5 cm with
areola and nipple. The nipple is depressed. There is an ill defined tumor mass, 4 x 3 x 1 cm, located at both i wer inferior
quadrants (outer and inner). There is a metallic clip. At the upper inner quadrant, there is a second tumor m 58. 1 x 1 x
0.5 cm present. close to the anterior margin. The rest of the breast presents few hrnnnt stroma and abundan yellow
adipose tissue. Representative portion of tissue was taken for the 1 Ten possible lymp nodes are
grossly identiﬁed and present at the axillary tail. Representative sections are submitted in nineteen cassette as follows:
1 Nipple
2 Deep margin
3&4 Tumor. lower outer quadrant
5&6 Tumor. lower inner quadrant
7 Middle line tumor
8 Second mass, upper inner quadrant close to anterior margin
9 Upper outer quadrant
108.11 One entire lymph node, per block
12-19 One lymph node bisected, per block

C. Received is an ovoid pale tan tissue fragment, 1.2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. Bisected and submitted in toto in one cassetfe for frozen
section.

 

  
    
     
 
 

Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
HIPAA Discrepancy _’
We“ “Now
Dual/Synchronous P in

    

 

w — — Page 3 ova

 

Name: H Case it:

DOB: \ . _ Collected:
Gender: F Received:

MRN: Reported:
Location: Copy To:
Physician:

 

 

Egthoiggic interpretation:
AMMENDMENT TO PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING AND RESULTS or HERZ BY CISH (.

A. SENTINEL NODE no.1 AXILLA CONTENT
- No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- lmmunohisiochemislry for keratin to follow.

B. RIGHT BREAST (SHORT STITCH SUPERIOR LONG STITCH LATERAL):
- Invasive lobular carcinoma. intermediate nuclear grade. with formation of two dominant tumoral masses, 4.0 cm and
1.0 cm.
- The tumor invades the dermal skin.
- Lymphovascular spaces invasion is identiﬁed.
- Specimen margin is negative for tumor.
- Metastatic carcinoma to two of eight lymph nodes (12/8)

C. SENTINEL NODE NO. 2 AXILLA COUNT 605 FS:
~ No malignancy seen in one lymph node (0/1).
- lmmunohistcchemisiry for keratin to follow.

T m I )cD«O’3 > -
carom 017M, l n B Wo‘hnﬂ

S I :

ﬁrst... lower/NOS “2°13

P d :

- 'rrg‘tzaei mlagtectomy 5 Mo? bYLa§TINOS CSOIG‘

Lymph Node Sampling: ‘5)3lil Z

— Sentinel lymph node

- Axillary dissection

Specimen integrity:

- Single intact specimen

Specimen Size:

- Greatest dimension: 21 cm

' Additional dimension: 16 x 4 cm.

Lateraiity:

- Right

Tumor Site:

- Lower outer quadrant

- Upper inner quadrant

~ Lower inner quadrant

Tumor Size:

— Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion over 0.1 cm: 4 cm.
- Additional dimensions: 1 x 1 cm.

Tumor Focality:

~ Multiple focus of invasive carcinoma.

Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of tumor:

- Skin: Satellite skin foci of invasive carcinoma are present

Lobular Carcinoma iN Situ (LCIS):

- Present

Histologlc Type:

~ invasive iobular carcinoma

Histologic Grade:

- Overall Grade: Grade 2

Margins:

- Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

Lymph-Vascular Invasion:
- Present
Dermal Lymph-Vascular invasion:
- Not identiﬁed.
Lymph Nodes:
. Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 2
- Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and Nonsentinel): 10
- Number of lymph nodes with macrometaslases (>02 cm): 2
Extranodei Extension:
- Not identiﬁed
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
~ Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E. one level)

~ Immunonistoohemistry.
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor:
- Performed on another specimen: Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).
Progesterone Receptor:
- Performed on another specimen: Results: Immunoreactive tumor cells present (21%).
HERZ/neu
- Performed on another specimen: Results: Equivocal (Score 2+)
CISH for HERQINeu:
« Performed on another specimen: Results: Amplified (HER2 gene copy «to or ratio <13)
(amended.
TNM Descriptors:

- in (multiple foci of invasive carcinoma)
Primary Tumor (invasive Carcinoma) (pT).

- pT4b
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

— lea
Distant Metastasis (M):

— Not applicable

Pathologlc Staging (pTNM): mpT4b. Nla. M-nol applicable (amended

SDI I: Some immmhiinxlwmhnl antibodies at" marl) N Slh'l'mt' ~quin (ANN!) Iii/ulnar! Iiy var Irrhommr): ”mu ARR; rm: vllmmlb' mail! hummus (In! do no! man».- Iv 1M all/emu]. lime dimer we inc-«I:
[/15 - ER l’gR r136 ,. I’ll: Aw} HER). IN I " ’1th Alilnrruruiblriilm ham/cal 51mm arr lm‘nl hit/I [emu/m or ~10!“qu ﬁn‘r’, ingrown ember/«la! livwe. [Jemima it A; The result: (in NM by a
milk-hurt kl or mill/w or ix‘gmn‘e.

vi: the attending pathologist. I attest that l: (i) Emmi/red the refer-mil preparalianm
for the .rpccimenfx); and (ii) Rendered Ilia Magenta-(es).

“*Electronicalli Slined Out aim

Amendments
Amended:
Reason: RevlselUpdate Tumor Staging
Case is amended to revise Delhologic Tumor Staging and update results of Her2 by CISH.
Previous Signout Date:

ProcedureslAddenda

Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

 

—Pam 2 OH

—

Addendum Diagnosis
A. SENTlNEL NODE #1 AXlLLA CONTENT

- lmmunohistoohernistry for keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.

C. SENTlNEL NODE It 2 AXlLLA COUNT
- Immunohistochemistry tor keratin stain is negative for metastatic carcinoma to the lymph node.

lntraoperatlve Consultation

A. Sentinel node # 1 axilla content zfrozen section: Touch prep: Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

C. Sentinel node ti 2 Axilla count and Touch prep: Negative for metastatic carcinoma.

 

Clinical History;

Lobular carcinoma

Operation Eerformed

Right breast total mastectomy; Possible axillary node dissection: Sentinel node biopsy

Pro Operative Diagnosis:

Breast cancer

Specimen(e) Received:

A: Sentinel node it! 1 axilla content

B: Right breast (short stitch superior tong stitch lateral)
C: Sentinel node it 2 Axilla count

gross Description:

A. Received fresh is an ovoid pale tan tissue fragment, 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm. Bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for
frozen section.

8, Received is a right mastectomy specimen with axillary tail, 21 x 16 x 4 cm. The specimen is oriented with short suture-
superior margin and long suture-lateral margin. At the anterior aspect, there is a segment of skin 10 x 5.5 x 0.5 cm with
areola and nipple. The nipple is depressed. There is an ill defined tumor mass. 4 x 3 x 1 cm. located at both lower interior
quadrants (outer and inner). There is a metallic clip. Al the upper inner quadrant, there is a second tumor mass. 1 x 1 x
0.5 cm present, close to the anterior margin. The rest of the breast present.- few hrpaci etroma and abundant yellow

adipose tissue. Representative portion of tissue was taken for the Ten possible lymph nodes are

grossly identiﬁed and present at the axillary tail. Representative sections are submitted in nineteen cassettes as follows:
Nipple

2 Deep margin

3&4 Tumor. lower outer quadrant
5&6 Tumor, lower inner quadrant

7 Middle line tumor
8 Second mass. upper inner quadrant close to anterior margin
9 Upper outer quadrant

108.11 One entire lymph node, per block
12-19 One lymph node bisected, per block

C. Received is an ovoid pale tan tissue fragment, 1.2 x1 x 0.5 cm. Bioected and submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen

I I III— Page 3 of‘

“

section‘

 
   
 
 

‘rltart:

 
 

‘ Tumor
llPAA

 
 
  

 

:35: is
.e'viewer

 
 

  
 
 

_._r. ._ —__‘l

Page 4 oft

 

