UUID : 32838F7A-8CEC-4679-A83F-516AF53E74CE

 

l
l

Requesting Doctor’s Information: TCGA'OR‘ASJC'°1A'PR Rada‘ilited

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
HWWWMMMW
WWWMWMWM

1136-6

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

oLlNlCAL NOTES: C20 ”59/ 5

L) adrenal tumour -> gynaecomastia. ‘

MACROSCOPlC: ‘

"Lelt adrenal tumour.“ The specimen consists of a lobulated, roughly ovoid
mass, 135x 100 x 90mm. weighing 754g. The specimen has been previously
incised prior to receipt over a length of 45mm. The mass is lobulated and
surrounded by a thin layer of adipose tissue. On sectioning, lcbules of ten
tissue are separated by line fibrous bands. Areas of haemorrhage and necrosis
are identified. Most of the tumour is light brown/tan. Small amounts of

residual adrenal gland parenchyma are present at the peripheries
Representative tissue embedded in six blocks.

MICROSCOPE: ‘

The adrenal tumour is a high grade adrenal cortical carcinoma. The tumour is
variable in its architecmre. including diffuse sheets, areas of glandular,

papillary and irabeculae formation. and regions where the cells are more

insular in their arrangement. There are occasional well differentiated areas
where the tumour vaguely resembles normal adrenal cortical parenchyma. The
cells have abundant granular eoslnophilic cytoplasm with clear cell areas.
Nuclear pleomorphism is variable and overall moderate. There is a rich vascular
background with large areas of haemorrhage and necrosis. Mitosee are numerous,
including atypical forms, up to 24/50 not. ‘

There is prominent vascular space permeation within capsular vessels, showing
formation of tumour thrombi. '

A thick fibrous capsule surrounds the tumour and local resection appears
complete.

A rim of atrophic adrenal cortex is seen atone end.

SUMMARY:
Left adrenal mass:

High grade adrenal cortical carcinoma. with prominent vascular space
permeation.

Local excision appears complete.

T—QSOOO M-801 03

@wﬁwa4‘alaiwfg‘é
;.@,45[W m1 ., .. ,
8’ a are?

674. a)

 

 

jihad-a... ~I “a" n ]

ﬁﬂoxqu Wbﬁmgcﬂbzﬁ

 

 

Requesting Doctor's Information:

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

REPORTING PATHOLOGIST:
(Electronic Signature)

 

 

 

 

Page 2‘ bf «,2

 

 

«marorqrﬁmqméx

«mﬁwoquw rﬁnmgbqﬁZb

