 

  
  

a oogy epor

.n even-m 52m: v.3 w :i xnﬂwn'u—wﬂu‘ an sv-ru'n‘»: .-.-9 manual-wait: -;x e -.-:

 

:- 1 -\: '.'26c<¢:.':: warms-ens erwywvﬁnﬁ u.— .-..x 2 31.151 Lu" he: runs ’12-) -‘.'. ,3; ..—;- en a . .

Accession Number: ﬂ Report Status:
Type: Surgical Pathology
CASE:

Specimen Type: Kidney, part‘al or total resection
PATIENT:--
Resident:
Pathologi

Ordering Provide
PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

 
 
     

.cen—cz—azasa

,ﬂEFT KIDNEY, NEPHRECTOMY (210.5g):
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA,/clear cell type, 4.2 cm, involving lower pole, Fuhrman

nuclear grade II {of IV).
Tumor is confined to the kidney.
Soft tissue margin of resection is negative for tumor.
Renal vein, renal artery, and ureteral margins are negative for tumor.

No lymphovascular invasion present.
AJCC Stage (6th edition): le NO MK.

REGION. LYMPH NODES, BIOPSY:
, our lymph nodes with no tumor present.

EVALUATION OF NON—NEOPLASTIC KIDNEY“(NEPHRECTOMY SPECIMEN):
KIDNEY WITH MINOR, NON"SPECIFIC ABNORMALITIES, INCLUDING MILD FOCAL GLOBAL
GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS (4% OF TOTAL GLOMERULI)

ARTERIAL AND ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS, MILD TO MODERATE

 

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The sample consists of kidney cortex and medulla. There are up to one

hundred ninety six (196) glomeruli present in the sample submitted for light
microscopy. Eight (8) glomeruli are globally obsolescent {sclerosed)._ The
preserved glomeruli show normal cellularity and reveal no significant
pathological changes. Very mild mesan ial expansion and occasional reabsorption
granules are recognized. On PAS and I silver methenamine stain, the
glomerular basement membranes appear 0 normal thickness. Tubules are well
preserved; occasional tubules are mildly distended and show few hyaline casts.
The interstitium shows minimal fibrosis and mononuclear inflammation. Less than
5% of the sample shows tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis, as evidenced
on the trichrome stains (AFOG). Arteries and arterioles reveal mils to
moderate sclerosis of the wall, with focal hyalinosis and mild signs of
vasoconstriction in the arteriolar walls.

The non-neoplastic kidney was evaluated by_ Renal Pathology

Service.

CLINIC TA:
History: ith incidental finding of (L) renal mass.

Operation} Not speCified.
Operative Findings; None given.
Clinical Diagnosis: Not provided.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/l. (L) kidney — FS.
B/2. Regional nodes.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:V

The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patient?s
name and unit number.

Part A, received fresh in the frozen section lab, labeled "#1. (L) kidney —

PS", consists of a left‘nephrectomy specimen {210.5 gm; 11.7 x 6.5 x 4.8 cm) to
include ureter (6.8 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter), renal veins (1.4 cm in

 

no“ _r_ n: w umrr 'ﬁnxm:

length x 0.5 cm in diameter each), renal artery (2.3 cm in‘length_xw‘“mmh
diameter), and scant loosely attached perinephric fat (7.2 x 51f?€§3107‘cm -
predominately at the lower pole). The specimen is inked black and bivalved,
revealing_a golden yelIOw, focally hemorrhagic, predominately solid '
encapsulated mass (4.2 x 3.5 x 3.9 cm) within the lower pole, 4.5 cm from the

ureter, 1.6 cm from the nearest renal vein margin, and 2.6 cm from the renal

artery margin. The mass grossly abuts the renal capsule but does not appear t9” m
invade through the capsule into the perinephric fat. Representative sect$gﬂ§hwﬂwu

of the mass are submitted to the tissue bank, cytogenetics, and electroﬁ“ ‘“
microscopy for special studies. Representative normal cortex is held for
future electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and tissue banking studies.
The renal pelvis displays unremarkable tan/white glistening urothelium. The
cortical medullary junction is welledemarcated with no other gross lesions
identified. No lymph nodes are identified within the scent perihilar or
perinephric fat. The adrenal gland is not identified. Photographs are taken.

0.4 cm in

Micro A1: ral, renal vein, and renal artery margins, (en face), 4
frags total,
Micro A2: 1' (tumor quick-fix) , l frag, -

Micro A3-A4: Deepest extension of mass in relationship to perinephric fat and
capsule, 2 frags,

Micro A5: F cystic component of mass to include areas of hemorrhage,
1 frag,

Micro A6: Mass in relationship to pelvis, 1 frag,

Micro A7: Mass in relationship to adjacent uninvolved parenchyma, l frag,

Micro A8: Cortical medullary junction, 1 frag, -

Part B. labeled "#2. Regional nodes", consists of a 3.6 x 2.2 x 0.6 cm
aggregate of yellow/tan lobulated fat, within which four tan rubbery lymph node
candidates (ranging from 0.2 em up to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension) are
identified.

Micro Bl: 2 single whole lymph node candidates, 2 frags,
Micro B2: 2 single whole lymph node candidates, 2 frags,

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microsoopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

Resident Review by
Final Diainosis by Electronically signed on

-- 17w”r;.1m;'a1v:;zv‘.r.ze\'numat-ax c-u:--_-va..:,-m.-._._.‘-.-.-u-..;r.-

 

  

   
 

 

Accession Number: m

Type: Cyto enetics
CASE .- db

PATIENT!“

Cytogeneticist

KARi'OTYPE: 4S,xx,der(3)t(3;14)(p1?4,-q2?1), ins(4;5) (q?31;q2?3q3?2) , ~14
METAPHASES COUNTED: 15 ANALYZED: 8 SCORED: 7 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

All metaphases contained clonal aberrations that included 3p deletion, which is
a characteristic finding in renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type.

COMMENTS .-
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the
standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400

bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
?RCC

   
 
 

REPORT b

Final ' ectronically signed on

   

 

