 

Clinical Diagnosis 8:. History:
History of melasialic renal calf carcinoma with lafl renal mass.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Kidney and adrenal, left: radicai nephrectomy

 

DIAGNOSIS:
“i. Kidney and adrenal, left; radical nephrectomy:

Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventlenal (clear cell) type

wilh large fool of necrosis

F uhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade lV/EV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 133 cm.

Local invasion (for renal coﬁicai types):
Extends through renal capsule be! conﬁned within Garcia's fascia

involves renal hilar fat

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed
However. the tumor invades muscular veins in the renal sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non~Neopiastic Kidney:
Mild arteriosclerolic changes and benign cortical cysis

Adrenal Gland:
Nat involved

Lymph Nodes:
No! identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinomalcncocytome:
stb Tumor grossly axiends info the renal veinfs) or vane cave below the diaphragm

 

Page i of 2

 

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8: Historv:
History of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with left renal mass.

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: Kidney and adrenal. left; radical nephrectomv

 

 

DIAGNOSlS:
1. Kidney and adrenal. left; radical nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type
with large foci of necrosis

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade tVllV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 13.0 cm.

Local lnvasion (for renal cortical types):
Extends through renal capsule but conﬁned within Garcia's fascia
involves renal hilar fat

Renal Vain invasion:
Not identiﬁed
However. the tumor invades muscular veins in the renal sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non—Neoplastic Kidney:
Mild arteriosclerotic changes and benign cortical cysts

Adrenal Gland:
Net involved

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinoma/oncccylcma:
pT3b Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s) or vane cave below the diaphragm

 

Page 1 of2

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
History of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with left renaE mass.

Sgecimens Submitted:
1: Kidney and adrenal. leit; radical nephrectomy

 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS;
'l. Kidney and adrenal, left; radical nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear celt) type
with large foci of necrosis

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade inEV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 13.0 cm.

Luca! invasion (tor renal conical types):
Extends through renal capsule but conﬁned within Garcia's fascia
involves renat hilar fat

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed
Howover, the tumor invades muscular veins in the renal sinus

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non—Neoplastic Kidney:
Mild arteriosclerotic changes and benign cortical cysts

Adrenal Giand:
Not involved

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renai celi carcinomaloncocytoma:
pTBb Tumor grossly extends into the renal vein(s) or vena cava below the diaphragm

 

 

Page ’i of 2

 

 

Gross Description:

1). The specimen is receiv “ it kidney and adrenal" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels
and perinephrlc fat Weighing he kidney measures 10.9 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 5.0 cm in
length and 0.5 cm in diameter. a a as a renal vein measures 2.5 cm in length and 2.5 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossiy unremarkable. An adrenal gland is identiﬁed, measuring 8.0 x 5.0 x 2.0 cm. The kidney is inked black
and bivalved to reveal an ill-deﬁned yellow orange mass extending from the lower pole of the kidney measuring 13.0 x 13.0 x 9.2
cm. The lesion distorts the kidney cortex without groasiy invading the perinephrlc adipose tissue. Serial sections through the
mass Show areas of ﬁbrosis, mucinous degeneration, necrosis and hemorrhage. No gross invasion into the sinus that is identiﬁed.
however, gross extension into the hilar fat cannot be assessed. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown
paranchyma, with a well-deﬁned cortico-medullary junction. The cortex measures 0.5 cm and the calyces appear normat. No
lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric fat. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections. A
photograph is taken.

 

Summary oi sections:

UVM -- ureteral and Vessel margins

T» tumor

THF» tumor with hiiar tat

TSF -- tumor with sinus fat

TK -~ tumor with adjacent kidney

TC - tumor with capsule and perinephn‘c fat
TV— tumor to vein

K -- representative sections kidney

AD -~ adrenal gland

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney and adrenal, left; radical nephrectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
ad 1
k 2
t 6
to 3
till 2
lit 1
lot 1
tv 1
own ‘i

AAAAMmQN-A

 

Page 2 of2 END OF REPORT

