 

chnéstcd By:

"a :2 1 we will

UUID:FF9‘7398-211F- - .
”I TCGA-FF- IEDG A157 386571985139

Ii, iniiiiiiumiiiiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii‘"

 

 

L

H iiiiilliiliiiliiilliililiiliilii
iii illiil illllilllilliillillliiilillii'i"l'ilii'llii'i'i’ilyli'iili'il'i'iiui'lii

l

 

 

 

vl'liéthnafiigiog'y-Report 3:: E - '3 I ' " Biopsy Nb: ‘ Final J

Received Date/Time Final
Reporting information Date/Time : Final

Histopathoiogist :

Laboratory:
Consultant-in-Charge Finai
Submitting Physician Final
Histopaihoiogy Report Final

DIAGNOSIS

Cervical lymph node: Diffuse large Becell
lymphoma, non-germinal centre type (Hans'

criteria).

GROSS DESCRIPTION

The specimen is received in formalin, labelled with patient's data and
designated "cervical lymph node". It consists of several pieces of brownish

tissue altogether measuring 2.5 x 2 x 0.6cm.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Sections of lymph node Show effacement of nodal architecture by a diffuse
lymphomatous infiltrate featuring sheets of large cells with vesicular chromatin
and prominent central nucleoli. There are frequent mitoses, apoptotic bodies and
clusters of macrophages, thereby imparting a starry sky appearance.
Immunohistochemistry confirms the B-cell lineage of the lymphomatous population,
being positive for CDZO. They lack expression of germinal centre markers CD10
and bch (<3D%) with strong expression of MUM}. There is no expression of C030
and C0138 whilst in situ hybridization is negative for REV-encoded RNA (EBER),
thereby excluding plasmablastic lymphoma. CDZl fails to highlight any residual
follicular dendritic meshwork and there is no overexpression of cyclin D1, which
rules against pleomorphic variant mantle cell lymphoma. There is strong
expression of bch whilst the proliferation fraction is high at about 70% by
Ki67 immunostaining.

Pathologist :

(Al & A2; no reserve)

ICED-Or 3

/

pfﬁéiuu W BM CMSDLS

51¢? @WWW @770
9%) weal/3

 

 

Printed from:

 

Q'EndofRepon‘

- '. Page:l of]

 

 

