 

 

e

 

 

1GB 0 ’>
Mix-mum}, :m’ z-moid'rmfﬁ.i 0161’, ma:

5? ”.801"; 14.;

51/: ﬁmmfm C-b‘l-i

UUID: EB6E4309- 9CE1- 468A- A94B- 9.7874BDE9Déd
TCGA- AS- ADRA- 01A- PR

1I:WI“Illilllllllllll|||||||||lllllllllillllllllllllIHIIHIII
lllllllH Hill llllllllllll Ill Ill lllllllllilillllllllllllllllllll

I
II
I

 

OURUIUAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:

SYNOPTIC REPORT:

Applies To:

A : UTERUS, CERVlX, TUBES, OVARIES
B : RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

C : LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

Macroscopic

ii/gtgé/Ic

Specimen Type:

Other Organs Present:

Lymph Node Sampling:

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Tumor Site:

Tumor Size:
Myometrial Invasion:
Involvement of Cervix:
Extent of Involvement
of Other Organs:
Margins:

Lymphovascular Invasion:

Uterus

Right ovary

Left ovary

Right fallopian tube

Left fallopian tube
Parametrium

Bilateral pelvic lymph nodes
None

Pelvic lymph nodes

Microscopic

Endometrioid adenocarcinoma not otherwise
cWed

G2 )% to 50% nonsquamous solid growth

CBrpus

Fundus

Greatest dimension: 5cm

Greater than 50% myometrial invasion

No involvement

None
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Present

Pathologic Staging (p TNM [FIGO]) AJCC 6th Edition 2002

Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

 

pT1c [lC]: Tumor invades one-half or more of the
myometrium

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

 

Copy For:'
,H ,. :_ , ,V g, Page1of5
‘ l‘,i’xil§N'l Ngiirin ii FIESZLL is"
i gig ﬂ ___ was: 7_ INF“

 

 

 

Number of lymph nodes examined: 6

 

Number of lymph nodes involved: 0

,_ ,,,._%,__.~. M 7% \ ,_ M Additional Pathologic Findings 7 __ _<_ __;h__*
None identiﬁed

A. UTERUS, FALLOPIAN TUBES, AND OVARIES, LAPAROSCOPlC , _-ASSISTED)

VAGlNAL HYSTERECTOMY AND BlLATERAL SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:
- Primary uterine adenocarcinoma, endometrioid type with associated
squamoid and focal mucinous changes',"gr~ade”ll (see comment)

- Tumor is about 5.0 x 4.0 x 3.4 cm in greatest overall dimensions and
extensively involves the endometrium of the uterine corpus posteriorly
and anteriorly and also involves the uterine fundus

- Myometrial invasion is present and involves greater than 50% of the
uterine wall thickness (about 75-80%)

- Myoinvasion with so-called MELF (microcystic, elongated and
fragmented) pattern is present

- Lymphatic invasion by carcinoma is present in the uterus

- Tumor is also present in veins within the uterus; presence of some
tumor aggregates in deep veins may be iatrogenic/represent dissection
strays

- Cervix including surgical margin is free of tumor

- No extension of tumor into parametria

- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma involving ovaries or fallopian tubes

- Other findings include:

- Some non-neoplastic inactive/weakly proliferative endometrium

- Several small uterine leiomyomas

- Detached (free-floating) aggregates of tumor in endocervical canal

- Cervix shows focal changes consistent with prior curettage, atrophic
squamous changes, subepithelial hemorrhages, chronic and mild acute
inflammation, squamous metaplasia, cystic endocervical tunnel clusters
and nabothian cysts

- Right ovary with senescent changes, cortical stromal hyperplasia with
associated hyperthecosis, hyperplasia of rete elements, cystic epithelial
and cystic mesothelial inclusions, serosal adhesions, focal paraovarian
endosalpingiosis, and fragments of tumor within hilar veins, latter appear
to represent dissections strays rather than true venous invasion

- Right fallopian tube with chronic inflammation, including chronic
follicular salpingitis, and mild segmental luminal dilatation

- Left ovary with senescent changes, diffuse stromal hyperplasia with
associated hyperthecosis

- Left fallopian tube with chronic inflammation, foci of epithelial
hyperplasia without significant cellular atypia, and peri- and paratubal
endosalpingiosis -

B. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Four lymph nodes without evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely
stained sections (0/4)

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

 

Page 2 of 5

 

a

 

C. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Two lymph nodes without evidence of metastatic carcinoma in routinely
stained sections (0/2)

COMMENT: Preliminary pathologic findings were conveyed to Dr.
, . The case was discussed at ‘
conference on =

HISTORY:
Endometrial cancer

MICROSCOPIC FINDINGS:
See diagnosis.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL STUDIES:
H&E-stained step sections (A1 x2, A2 x2, A3 x1, A4 x1, A5 x1, A8 x1, A12 x2, A13 x1)
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Keratin AE1/AE3 B1, No “occult" keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
82, identiﬁed in the right pelvic lymph nodes (0/4). Dissection
BS strays of tumor are present adjacent to two of the lymph
nodes.
Keratin AE1/AE3 01 , No “occult" keratin-positive metastatic tumor cells are
C2 identiﬁed in the left pelvic lymph nodes (0/2). Dissection
strays of tumor are present adjacent to one of the lymph
nodes.
GROSS:

A. UTERUS, CERVIX, TUBES AND OVARIES

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries", and received fresh in the
Operating Room for intraoperative frozen section, and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin, is a 200 gram, total
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The uterus is about 9.5 x 6.5 x 6.5 cm in
greatest overall dimensions. The cervical portion of the uterus is about 2.5 cm in length and up to 2.7 cm
in diameter. The external cervical os is 0.3 cm in diameter. The endocervical canal is about 2.5 cm long
and up to 0.2 cm in width. The endometrial cavity is about 6 cm in length x 4.5 cm in diameter. The
muscular uterine wall is about 2.5 cm in maximum thickness. The endometrial mucosa ranges from
about 0.2 to 1.0 cm in thickness. The right ovary is 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. The ﬁmbriated right fallopian tube
is 6.5 cm long and up to 0.5 cm in diameter. The left ovary is 2.3 x 1.7 x 1.5 cm. The ﬁmbriated left
fallopian tube is about 4.5 cm long and up to 0.6 cm in diameter.

The endometrial cavity is largely occupied by a soft tan friable exophytic focally papillated tumor that is
about 5.0 x 4.0 cm in area. The tumor replaces the endometrium of the anterior and posterior uterine
corpus and uterine fundus. Cut sections reveal induration of the underlying myometrium which appears
to be infiltrated by ﬁrm tan-white tumor. The grossly evident invasive tumor involves about 75% of the
uterine wall thickness. There is no serosal surface involvement or parametrial extension of tumor on
gross inspection of the specimen. The cervix appears grossly free of tumor. No metastatic tumor is seen
in the ovaries or fallopian tubes.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

"164 .5.

There is a small amount of uninvolved endometrium in the lower uterine segment. No normal appearing
endometrium is seen in the uterine corpus or fundus. Vlﬁthin the uterus, there are also several tiny to
small circumscribed intramural leiomyomas ranging from about 0.2 to 0.3 cm in diameter. Each of the
leiomyomas is composed of ﬁrm solid tan tissue without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or necrosis.
The cervix is remarkable only for a few mucus-ﬁlled cysts ranging from about 0.1 to 0.7 cm in diameter.
Both ovaries are atrophic. The left ovary shows relatively abundant yellow-tan cortical stroma which is
focally vaguely nodular. The left fallopian tube is grossly unremarkable. The right fallopian tube shows
mild segmental luminal dilatation with a maximum luminal diameter of about 0.6 cm.

Ink key: Uterine serosal surface — black; parametrial margins -— blue.
Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:

A1. Anterior cervix - 1

A2. Posterior cervix - 1

A3. Anterior upper endocervix - 1

A4. Posterior upper endocervix — 1

A5, A6. Tumor in anterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each
A7, A8. Tumor in anterior uterine corpus, bisected — 1 each
A9, A10. Tumor in posterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each
A11. Tumor to parametrium - 1

A12. Right ovary and fallopian tube - 3

A13. Left ovary and fallopian tube - 3

A14. Tumor in relation to right parametrial margin - 1

A15. Tumor in relation to left parametrial margin - 1

A16, A17. Anterior uterine corpus, bisected - 1 each

A18. Anterior uterine fundus - 1

A19. Posterior uterine fundus - 1

A20. Right fallopian tube and ovary - 2

A21. Left fallopian tube - 1

A22. Remnant of frozen section A - 1

B. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes", and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 3.5
x 1.2 cm aggregate of several fragments of soft yellow adipose tissue within which there are embedded
four soft tan lymph nodes ranging from about 0.3 to 1.3 cm in maximum dimension.

No metastatic tumor is evident on gross inspection of the specimen.

The lymph nodes are each entirely embedded along with some of the perinodal fat.

Slide key:

B1. One lymph node — 1

82. One lymph node, trisected — 3
BS. Two lymph nodes - 2

C. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

Labeled with the patient's name, labeled “left pelvic lymph nodes", and received in formalin is about a 4.0
x 4.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of multiple fragments of soft yellow fatty tissue within which there are embedded
two soft tan lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are about 0.5 and 0.7 cm in maximum dimensions.

No metastatic tumor is evident on gross examination of the lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are each
entirely embedded along with some of the perinodal fat.

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 4 of 5

 

 

 

 

 

Slide key:
C1. One lymph node -1
C2. One lymph node - 1

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

A. UTERUS (FS A):
- Endometrial adenocarcinoma, greater than 50% invasion into myometrium
- Portions of bilateral ovaries taken for research
— Portion of endometrial cancer taken for research

l , MD.)

I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
. MD. Electronically signed "" ‘

umor
IIPAA
'rior

Ian II

(«viewer

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

If this report includes immunohistochemical test results, please note the following: Numerous immunohistochemic-il tests were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by 2. Those

immunohistochemical tests have not been on...“ o. apyruvau b, u... as. . H- _..- -1, . _,.._.,,.,~.‘._.,,,,, (rm-v. ana run approval is no! required.

Page 5 of 5

 

