 

— I _
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
I Left ovary and fallopian tube, saipingo-oophorectomy:
- Ovary: Pooriy differentiated serous carcinoma, see comment.
— Fallopian tube: Metastatic serous carcinoma in fimbriae.
Fibrosis of tubal plicae.
B. Right ovary and fallopian tube, salpingo-oophorectomy:
- Ovary:
1. Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
2. Hemorrhage, necrosis, fibrosis, foreign body giant cell
reaction and
histiocytic reaction at previous cystectomy site.
— Fallopian tube: Fibrosis of tubal plicae. Endometriosis.
- Adnexal peritoneum and soft tissue:
1. Microscopic foci of serous carcinoma in peritoneum.
2. Fat necrosis, fibrosis and chronic inflammation.
C. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: No evidence of
carcinoma in eleven lymph
nodes (0/11).
D. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection: No evidence of
carcinoma in ten lymph

if nodes (0/ 10).
E. Uterus and cervix, total abdominal hysterectomy:
- Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.
- Endometrium: Inactive pattern; benign endometrial polyp.
— Myometrium: Leiomyoma; adenomyosis.
- Serosa: No significant pathologic abnormality.

- Parametrium: Metastatic serous carcinoma on serosal surface.
Page 1 of5

F. Diaphragm, biopsy: Metastatic serous carcinoma.
G. Omentum, omentectomy: No significant pathologic
abnormality, no evidence of
carcinoma.
H. Lymph nodes, right periaortic, dissection:
1. No evidence of carcinoma in eleven lymph nodes (0/11).
2. Hemosiderosis.
I. Lymph nodes, mid line periaortic, dissection:
1. No evidence of carcinoma in four lymph nodes (0/4).
2. Benign lipogranulomas.
J. Lymph nodes, left periaortic, dissection: No evidence of
carcinoma in six lymph
i nodes (0/6). _ 7 ,_ A ,,,,,
* Mﬂ'."1leum“aifd cecijm, right'colectomy:

 

 
   

'- iCGil—BQ—iﬁiii

1. Subserosal fibrosis.
2. Metastatic serous carcinoma in areas of subserosal fibrous

scar.
3. Ileocecal adhesions with hemorrhage, fat necrosis and
chronic

inﬂammation.

4. No evidence of carcinoma in five mesenteric lymph nodes

(0/5).

COMMENT:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Carcinoma, serous.

2. Grade of tumor: 3.

3. Location of tumor: Bilateral.

4. Diameter of tumor: 7.5 cm on the right and 7.7 cm greatest dimension of
aggregate of disrupted

fragments on the left.

5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Smooth on right, fragmented on left.

6. Condition of capsule: Intact on the right, disrupted on the left.

7. Appearance of cut surface: Solid and cystic, mainly cystic on the right. Solid on
the ieft.

8. Color of solid areas: Tan and gold.

9. Necrosis: None present.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not present.

11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Fimbriated end of right failopian tube, right
parametrium.

12. Pelvic iymph nodes: Negative. Total twenty-one nodes examined, aii ofwhich are
negaﬁve.

13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Diaphragm and serosa of bowel.

14. Para— aortic lymph nodes: Negative. Total twenty one nodes examined, all of
which are negative.

15. Peritoneal cytology: Pelvic washing. Cytology accession number-
positive.

16. Other significant findings: Endometriosis.

17. FIGO stage: 3A.

18. TNM stage: pT3aNOMX.

An atypical area was identified in siide C5 of the right peivic lymph node dissection.
An

immunohistochemical stain for keratin was performed and examined at- to help
establish the

diagnosis.

Keratin: Negative.

The negative staining for keratin rules out the presence of a lymph node metastasis
in siide C5. It is

possible that this represents vascular transformation of the lymph node sinus, a
benign condition. We will

investigate it further and report the resuits in an addendum.

Page 2 of 5

 

sintraoperative 1., _-

Specimen(s) Received

A:Left ovary and tube

B:Right ovary and tube

CzRight pelvic lymph nodes (fresh)
D:Left pelvic lymph nodes (fresh)
E:Uterus and cervix (fresh)
F:Diaphragm biopsy

G:Omentum

H:Right periaortic lymph node
I:Midline periaortic lymph node
3:Left periaortic lymph node
K:Ileum and coion (cecum)

 

Intraoperative Diagnosis

FSl (A) Left ovary and tube, salplngo—oophorectomy: Invasive carcinoma,
endometrioid type. Inked margin

positive.
F52 (B) Right ovary and tube, salpingo—oophorectomy: Positive for carcinoma. I

   
 

Clinical History

The patient is _. Ruie out ovarian cancer. No other history is
provided. History from

STOR indicates that she had an incidental right ovarian cyst found at the time of
appendectomy. This was

resected and showed moderately differentiated endometroid cancer and normal
fallopian tube. She now

undergoes staging laparatomy, total abdominal hysterectomy, omentectomy, and
iieocecal resection.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in eleven parts, each labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Parts A-E are received fresh. Parts F-K are received in formalin.

Part A, labeled "left tube and ovary frozen section," consists of a large cyst: with no
grossly identifiable ovary

weighing 165 gm and measuring 7.5 x 6.5 x 5 cm, intact. The surface is smooth and
is inked black. There

is a fallopian tube (4 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm) and the fimbral is attached to the mass by
adhesions. The cyst

contains 120 cc of watery brown fluid. The cyst is composed of a multiloculated,
partialiy solid

consistency. The deflated cyst measures 5 x 6.5 x 1.2 cm and weighs 24 gm.
Approximately 25% of the

cyst is solid, composed a soft, white-tan, solid component or a fibrous, brown, soiid
component. The rest

of the cyst is multicystic with the cysts containing golden yellow, papiliary
outgrowths on the inner surface.

The tumor does not grossly invade the capsule. Representative sections are taken for

diagnosis as frozen section 1, with the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette

 

A1. Further“ _ I Will—094670

representative sectlons are taken as follows:

Cassette A2: Solid and brOWn fibrous interface.

Cassette A3: Solid and brown fibrous interface.

Cassette A4: Papillary outgrowths on cystic lining.

Cassette A5: Brown fibrous areas.

Cassette A6: ?Residual ovary and fallopian tube.

Part B, labeled "right tube and ovary," consists of multiple soft, fragmented, irregular
pieces of

pink-red-purple tissue weighing 31.2 gm and measuring 7.7 x 5.6 x 2 cm in
aggregate. The largest

fragmented piece consists of multiple papillary outgrowths attached to a smooth
lining suspended from the

fallopian tube. The fallopian tube measures 4.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and is hemorrhagic.
Using the fallopian

tube for orientation, the papillary areas are present on a fragment of cyst wall that
corresponds to the

inside surface of the cystic mass, although exact orientation is not possible. in
addition to this, there are

multiple, separate fragments measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 1 cm in aggregate. On serial
sectioning , these are

composed of yellow and white adipose tissue with small areas of white—tan fibrinous

exudate. A random
Page 3 of 5

representative section is submitted for intraoperative diagnosis as frozen section 2,
with the frozen section

remnant submitted in cassette Bl. Further representative sections are taken as
follows:

Cassette 82: Attachment of the mass to the fallopian tube.

Cassette B3: Papillary outgrowths and cyst wall.

Cassette B4: Papillary outgrowths and normal fallopian tube.

Cassette 85: Sections of adipose tissue.

Part C, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes," consists of an aggregate of golden yellow
fatty tissue and fibrous

tissue measuring 6. 5 x 6 x 2 cm. The fatty tissue is dissected off and representative
lymph nodes are

submitted as follows:

Cassette C1: Three candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette C2: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette C3: Three candidate lymph nodes.

Cassettes C4—C5: A single, 3.5 cm in greatest dimension lymph node, bisected.

Part D, labeled 1‘left pelvic lymph nodes," consists of an aggregate of golden yellow
fatty tissue and fibrous

tissue measuring 5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. The fatty tissue is dissected off and candidate
lymph nodes are

submitted as follows:

Cassette 01: Three candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette D2: Four candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette D3: Four candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette D4: Single lymph node, bisected.

Part E, labeled "uterus a__[Igu_ger_\/l_><_,'_‘_gonsists of a uterus with attachedncervix, consists _--.-...-....-..____.
of adnexa weighing

 

, +4

“mmcecum which lsmeceived intactr’fhe proximaistaple margin lsinked blue, the dl‘sta‘

 

54.6 gm. The uterus measures 7.5 cm from fundus to cervix, 3.2 cm from cornu to
cornu and 2 cm from

anterior to posterior. It is oriented by the peritoneal reflections. In addition, there is
attached partial right

parametrium, measuring 5 x 3 x 1 cm. The serosa is smooth. The uterus sounds to 6
cm. The cervix

measures 3 cm in width, 3.5 cm in length, has a fish—mouthed os measuring 1.2 cm
in width. The uterus

is opened along the lateral borders. The transition zone and endocervical canal are
unremarkable. The

endometrium is tan and measures 0.3 cm. There is a polyp on the anterior
endometrial surface, measuring

0.5 cm in greatest dimension. In addition, there is a 0.8 cm leiomyoma on the
anterior myometrium. The

myometrium measures 1.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette E1: Anterior cervix.

Cassettes E2—E3: Posterior cervix.

Cassette E4: Polyp, (entirely submitted), and anterior endomyometrium.

Cassette E5: Posterior endomyometrium.

Cassette E6: Right parametrium.

Part F is additionally labeled "diaphragm biopsy." It consists of two small,
unoriented, whiteutan, soft

tissue fragments measuring 1 x 1 x 0.1 cm in aggregate. It is entirely submitted in
cassette F1.

Part (3 is additionally labeled "omenturn." It consists of a single piece of fatty tissue
measuring 15 x 13 x 3

cm and weighing 311 grams. It is serially sectioned. No abnormalities are detected.
Representative

sections are submitted in cassettes Gl—G3.

Part H is additionally labeled "right periaortic lymph node." It consists of a piece of
fibrofatty tissue

measuring 4.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The fibrofatty tissue is dissected off and candidate
lymph nodes are

submitted as follows:

Cassette H1: Four candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette H2: Single lymph node, bisected.

Cassette H3: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Part I is additionally labeled "mid line periaortic lymph node." It consists of a single
piece of fibrofatty

tissue measuring 4.8 x 2 x 0.3 cm. The fatty tissue is dissected off and four
candidate lymph nodes are

submitted in cassette II.

Part] is additionally labeled "left periaortic lymph node." It consists of a single piece

of fibrofatty tissue
Page 4 of 5

measuring 4 x 2 x 1.2 cm. The fatty tissue is dissected off and submitted as follows:
Cassette 31: Four candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette 32: Two candidate lymph nodes.

Cassette J3: Single lymph node, bisected.

Part K is additionally labeled 'ileum and colon (cecum)." It consists of a 21-cm
length of terminal ileum and

’_____... “go —I.__.._.—*._.

 

 

staple margin is inked

black. On opening the specimen consists of a piece of terminal ileum measuring 11
cm, the ileocecal valve,

which is patent and a 9-cm cecal pouch. No abnormalities are visualized on the
mucosal aspect. No

masses are identified. On the serosal aspect, there is a mild area of adhesion
between the cecum and the

terminal ileum. This extends to the surrounding mesentery. The mucosal surfaces
appear normal. No

appendix is visualized. The mesentery is searched for lymph nodes; however, none
are identified.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette K1: Terminal ileum and cecal margin.

Cassette K2: Area of serosal adhesion.

Cassette K3: Ileocecal valve.

Cassette K4: Further representative section through cecum and terminal ileum.
Cassettes K5-K6: Representative sections of mesentery.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by
attending

iatholoiist followini review of all iatholoii slides.

