     

TCGA-09-166i

 
 
 

 
 

!pec:men! S! leCEIVB!

' Ovary +/- tube neo lasticm, right, fs
aemk *eceivem _
H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x , H&E, First x I, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1,

Frozen section,
first x 1

B: Omen '

H&E, Fir , , :r x , , ll‘S x , rozen section, each additionalxl
C: Left

H&E, Fir

D: Right pelvic lymph node

Taken:

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1
E: Right obturator l

Taken:

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1

F: Left pelvic
Taken:
H&E, Firs , ,

G: Small
Taken:
H&E, Fir

H: Small bowel mesenta
aemk _
H&E, Firs
1: Small bowel mesentar #2
..th, Firs x
J: Sigmoid tu
Taemk_
H&E, First x 1
K: Omentum #2
Takem _
H&E, Firs
L: Infra astric omentum
Taken:

H&E, Firs x
M: Small intestine, resection for tumor

H&E, Firs , , li‘S x , , Il‘S x , E, First x 1, H&E, First X 1
N: Hepat'
H&E, Firs

Page I of 8
O: Cecu
H&E, Fir , , , , Irs x , , irs x

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A: Right ovary, Salpingo-oophorectomy: Papillary serous carcinoma, involving
ovary and
Fallopian tube, (FIGO grade III). See comment.
‘ , Omentum, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic papillary serous

  

 

carcinoma.
C: Left ovary, oophorectomy: Atrophy; no tumor seen.
D: Lymph nodes, right pelvic, dissection: 8 lymph nodes with no tumor seen

(0/8).
' Lymph nodes, right obturator, dissection: 5 lymph nodes with no tumor seen
(0/5).
F: Lymph nodes, left pelvic, dissection: 4 lymph nodes with no tumor seen
((3/4).
G: Small bowel, adhesions, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with crush artifact. in,
H: Mesentery, small bowel, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic
papillary

serous carcinoma.
I: Mesentery, "small bowel #2", excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic
papillary
serous carcinoma.
J: Sigmoid colon, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic papillary serous
carcinoma.
K: Omentum, "#2", excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic papillary
serous
carcinoma.
L: Omentum, infragastric, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic
papillary serous
carcinoma.
M: Small intestine, resection: Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma involving
mesentery

:and bowel serosa.
N: Soft tissue, hepatic flexure, excision: Fibroadipose tissue with metastatic
papillary
serous carcinoma.
0: Cecum, resection: Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma involving
pericolonic fat
with focal extension into muscularis propria.

Note:

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Papillary serous carcinoma.
2. Grade of tumor: Grade III.

3. Location of tumor: Right ovary.

Page 2 of 8

4. Diameter of tumor: 5.5 cm in greatest dimension.
5. Appearance of surface of ovary: Smooth.

6. Condition of capsule: Intact

7. Appearance of cut surface: Solid.

8. Color of solid areas: White.

9. Necrosis: Focal.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Right fallopian tube.
12. Pelvic lymph nodes: 12 lymph nodes with no tumor seen.
Sites of metastases in abdomen: Omentum, Small bowel serosa and cecum muscularis

propria.

14. Para-aortic lymph nodes: 5 lymph nodes with no tumor 5

15. Peritoneal cytology: Positive Cytology accession number:h
16. Other significant findings: None.

17. FIGO stage: III

.. TNM stage: pT3bNOMx
has reviewed the case and agrees with the diagnosis.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis

FSl (A) Right ovary, excision: Poorly differentiated carcinoma.
F82 (B) Omentum, excision: Poorly differentiated carcinoma. (
Clinical History

The patient is a — status post TAH in- and now presents with a 6.0 cm

complex
mass of the pelvis. CA 125 = 146.

 

 

Gross Description
The specimen is received in fifteen parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical
record number.
Part A, received fresh and labeled "right ovary + tube," consists of one ovary measuring 6.1 x
3.2 x 3.0 cm.
Also included with the specimen is one fallopian tube measuring 5.5 x 2.2 x 1.0 cm. The ovary
is large and
misshapen, and weighs 42 gm. On cut section, the ovarian parenchyma is completely replaced
by a white,
semi—soft, solid parenchyma. The second portion of the specimen is a fallopian tube which
appears to be
adhesed to fat and several nodules. The nodules have the same color and consistency of the
ovarian

renchyma, previously described. On cut section, the majority of the fallopian tube appears to
be replaced
by the white parenchyma. A representative portion of white tumor is submitted for frozen
section and the
unused frozen section is submitted in cassette A1. Representative pieces of tissue are
submitted for tissue
banking and to Oncotech. The specimen is submitted as follows:
Cassette A1: Frozen section of ovary.
Cassettes A2—A5: Representative sections of ovary.
Cassette A6: Representative section of fallopian tube and associated cyst.
Cassette A7: Representative section of fallopian tube.
Part B, received fresh and labeled "omentum," consists of one piece of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 18.2 x 6.4
x 0.6 cm. Within the specimen, there are multiple white, firm nodules, the largest measuring
3.4 cm in
greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section, with the unused
portion of
frozen section submitted in cassette B1. Representative section of the nodules is also submitted

in
cassettes -

Part C, labeled "left ovary,” consists of one ovary measuring 3.6 x 2.1 x 0.8 cm. On cut section,
the
parenchyma appears unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted in cassette
Part 0, labeled ”right pelvic lymph node," consists of multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 5.2 x 4.1

‘-..1 cm. Representative lymph nodes are identified. The largest measures 2.1 cm in greatest
dimension,

 

and has a semi—firm, tan—white parenchyma. Representative nodes are submitted in cassettes

Part E, labeled "right obturator lymph node," consists of one piece of fibrofatty tissue and
associated lymph
‘de, measuring 6.2 x 2.3 x 1.6 cm. On cut section, the largest, identifiable lymph node '
.easures 0.5 cm

in greatest dimension, and is tan—white. Lymph nodes are submitted in cassettes-
Page 3 of 8

    

Part F, labeled "left pelvic lymph node," consists of four fragments of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 3.4 x 2.1 x
1.6 cm. Representative lymph node candidates measure 1.0 cm in greatest dimension, and

have a

tan-yellow parenchyma. The nodes are submitted in cassettes!

Part G, labeled "small bowel adhesions,“ consists of one piece 0 an—red, semi—soft tissue
measuring 2.1 x

0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette I.

Part H, labeled ”small bowel mesentery,“ consists of one piece of soft, tan—red tissue measuring
1.2 x 0.6 x

0.6 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette-

Part I, labeled "small bowel mesentery #2," consists of one piece of semi-soft, tan-red tissue
measuring 1.1 x

0.7 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette I

Part 3, labeled "sigmoid tumor," consists of multiple fragments of firm, tan tissue measuring 2.1

x 1.1 x 0.6
cm in aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette I.
Part K, labeled "omentum #2," consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.1 x 1.2 x
0.7 cm in
aggregate. The specimens contain several small, white firm nodules, measuring 0.7 cm in
. ‘reatest
mansion. Representative sections are submitted in cassette -
Part L, labeled "infraglottic omentum," consists of one piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.2 x
2.8 x 1.2
cm. On cut section, there is a firm, infiltrating white mass in the center of the specimen,
measuring
approximately 2.4 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassette
-
Part M, labeled "ileum," consists of a segment of bowel and associated mesentery, measuring
30.1 cm in
length, with a diameter of 2.0 cm. On the serosal surface of the specimen, there are several
areas of
adhesions, which are formed from infiltrating white plaques. These plaques do not appear to
penetrate into
the muscularis propria of the ileum. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
Cassette Distal margins of ileum.
Cassette Representative portion of center of ileum.
Cassettes H: Serosal nodules.
Part N, labeled "hepatic flexure tumor," consists of one piece of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 2.1
x 1.0 x 0.8
cm. In the center of the specimen, there is a firm, white infiltrating nodule, measuring 1.0 cm
in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted in cassette N1.
Part 0, labeled ”cecum," consists ofa portion of large bowel, measuring 6.0 x 4.2 x 3.2 cm. Cut
section
“eveals unremarkable, large intestinal mucosa. The serosal surface contains one area with a
_ nail, white
nodule, measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The nodule contains a white, firm

 

parenchyma. The

specimen 'tted as follows:
Cassettes Margins.
Cassettes

Other 5 ecimens

Specimen(s) Received: immunohistostaining 8t interpretation only—
Final Diagnosis

Immunohistochemical stain and interpretation for HER—2/neu--
Peritoneum, segmental resection of ileum _ This
I metastatic serous

ircinoma is negative for overexpression of Her-Z/neu oncoprotein; see

lpemmenl SI leceivel: lscrlc IL]!

Final Diagnosis
Ascitic Fluid
ADENOCARCINOMA, METASTATIC.

Specimen(s) Received: A. Small bowel adhesion, B. Abdominal wall adhesion, C. Small
bowel adhesion, D: Right lower quadrant

nodule, E. Colon adhesions, F. Iieum, G. Small bowel mesentary
Final Diagnosis

A. Small bowel, adhesion, biopsy:
I Metastatic serous carcinoma; see comment.

   

   

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

2. Fibrin deposition. _
3. Fibrosis with acute and chronic inflammation.

B. Peritoneum, abdominal wall adhesion, biopsy: Metastatic serous
_ carcinoma.
" . Small bowel, adhesion, biopsy:

1. Metastatic serous carcinoma.

2. Fibrosis.

D. Abdomen, right lower quadrant nodule, biopsy: Calcific nodule with

benign

mucinous epithelium; see comment.

E. Colon, adhesions, biopsy:

1. Metastatic serous carcinoma.

2. No evidence of carcinoma in one lymph node (0/1).

F. Ileum, segmental resection:

1. Metastatic serous carcinoma on serosal surface.

2. Fibrosis.
Page 5 of 8

G. Small intestine, mesentery, biopsy: Metastatic serous carcinoma.

  

Final Diagnosis
.; 'ght Upper Quadrant Wash
ADENOCARCINOMA, METASTATIC.

Specimen(s) Received. A: Diaphragm adhesion, B: RT upper quadrant adhesion, C. Bowel
adhesion, D. Gallbladder
Final Diagnosis

A. Diaphragm, biopsy: Microscopic focus of serous carcinoma; see comment.
B. Peritoneum, right upper quadrant, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.

C. "Bowel adhesion“, biopsy: No carcinoma identified.

D. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:

1) Chronic cholecystitis.

 

in rep
1a! Diagnosis

‘ .aginal, Thin Prep

 

CELLULAR CHANGES WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS.
Atrophic pattern
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

   
   

 

Specimen(s) Received: A: Peritoneal Washing, B: Diaphragm, Right Hemidiaphragm, C:
Diaphragm, Left Hemidiaphragm
Final Diagnosis

A: Peritoneal Washing
ADENOCARCINOMA.

B: Diaphragm, Right Hemidiaphragm
Pagesofs

BENIGN.

C: Diaphragm, Left Hemidiaphragm
BENIGN.

 

Weave : : small !owe| a!!es1on, '5, B: small bowel adhesion #2, fs, C: right

lower quadrant, fs, D: Bladder,

Ipsy, peritoneum, E: Soft tissue, NOS, cul-de~sac, F: Soft tissue, NOS, cul-de—sac #2, G: Soft
tissue, NOS, left pelvis, l-i: Soft
tissue, NOS, left gutt
Final Diagnosis
A. Small bowel adhesion, biopsy: Skeletal muscle with no tumor identified.
B. Small bowel adhesion #2, biopsy: Foreign-body giant-cell reaction with
foreign
material, no tumor identified; see comment.
C. Right lower quadrant, biopsy: Fibrous tissue with no tumor identified; see
comment.
D. Bladder, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor identified.
E. Cul—de-sac, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue with focal calcification and foreign-body
giant-cell reaction, no tumor identified.
F. Cul-de-sac #2, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor identified.
G. Left pelvis, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor identified.
H. Left gutter, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor identified.
I. Right lower quadrant adhesion, biopsy: Fibrofatty tissue, no tumor identified.
J. Right pelvic adhesion, biopsy: Intestinal wall tissue with no tumor identified.
K. Anterior abdominal wall, adhesion, biopsy: Fatty tissue, no tumor identified.
L. Right upper quadrant adhesion, biopsy: Fatty tissue, no tumor identified.
M. Peritoneum, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor identified.
‘ ‘ Anterior abdominal wall scar, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue and skeletal
‘...uscle, no

 

tumor identified. -

0. Right gutter, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor identified.

P. Bladder, anterior portion, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue, no tumor identified.
Page 7 of8

Q. Cul—de-sac, biopsy: Fibrous tissue, no tumor identified.
R. Right pelvis, biopsy: Fibroadipose tissue and portion of mesothelium, no

 

Final Diagnosis
Peritoneal Washing
ADENOCARCINOMA.
See Below.

 

llemmenl 5| lecewel: I!!!|I!!

Final Diagnosis
.- *FNIGN

 

