UUID: ZBA70162-293A-4ESC-959C~0A735F18EA54
TCGA-98-A53B-61A-PR Redacte

Ill llIllIlllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllll
l||||lll|lll|||||l|||l|||I||||||l|l||||||||||||| | Illl

II III II lllll
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

[CA—0 *3

(law! cod] inc; 807413

5"“? Mu . ’,‘ (34.!
J ’ ‘75”, k f“) n/M/b»

 

I . u *—

 

 

[Patient Name MR# [Observation Date Last Edited Date
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CASE:
Diagnosis

A. Lymph node, level lX. excision: — One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
B. Lymph node, level Vlll, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (011).
C. Lymph node. level lx. exclsion:- Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy (Ol2).
D. Lymph node», level Vll. excision: — One lymph node negative for malignancy (011).
E. Lymph node, level V. excision: .- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1 ).
F. Lymph node, level V, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
G. Lymph node, level lV-L. excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (Oli).
H. Lymph node, level X, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (Oil).

l. Lymph node, level Xl, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (0H).

J. Lymph node, level Vl, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (011).
K. Lymph node, level Xll. excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
L. Lymph node, level X, excision: — One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
M. Lymph node, level Xlll, excision: - One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
N. Lymph node, level Xll, excisionz- One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
0. Lung. left upper lobe, bronchial margin, excision: - Negative for malignancy.

P. Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy: ~ Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated, 4 cm in
maximum dimension. - Carcinoma abuts, but does not invade, the pleura. - Parenchymal margins
negative for malignancy. - Two perihilar lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2). — Non neoplastic
lung parenchyma shows marked interstitial ﬁbrosis. scattered lymphoid aggregates. and mild medial

hypertrophy of medium sized arteries (see comment). - pT2a NO Mx.

Pathologist Comments
Clinical note states that an outside CT scan demonstrated chronic interstitial lung changes including
bullae, cysts and honeycombing bilaterally. Sections of lung away from the tumor show signiﬁcant
interstitial ﬁbrosis of uniform temporal pattern, scattered chronic inflammation, thickened arteries, and
early honeycombing changes; no granulomas are seen.

Clinical. information

The patient is a year old male with lung cancer in the left upper lobe with some enlarged lymph

nodes who is a current everyday smoker. The patient has coronary artery disease and interstitial lung
disease.

Frozen Section Diagnosis

Bl: Lymph node, level Vlll, biopsy: - No tumor seen.
Ci: Lymph node, level lX, biopsy: - No tumor seen,
Di: Lymph node, level Vll, biopsy: - No tumor seen.

E1: Lymph node, level V, biopsy: - No tumor seen.

F1: Lymph node, level V, biopsy: - No tumor seen.

G1: Lymph node, level lV—L, biopsy:- No tumor seen.

J1: Lymph node, level Vl, biopsy: - No tumor seen.

01: Lung, left upper lobe, bronchial margin, excision: — No tumor seen.
P1: Lung, left upper lobe, excision: - Squamous carcinoma.

Gross Description

The Specimen is received in 15 containers, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. The ﬁrst container is labeled, "#1, level IX. lymph node." Received is an anthracotic tan—yellow
fragment of tissue that measures 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm submitted in total.

The second container is labeled, "#2, level Vlll lymph node." Received fresh for frozen section is an
anthracotic lymph node that measures 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm submitted in total.

The next container is labeled, "#3, level IX lymph node." Received fresh for frozen section is an
anthracotic fragment of tissue that measures 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm submitted in total for frozen.

The next container is labeled, ",#4 ievel Vll lymph node." Received fresh for frozen section is a
single anthracotic fragment of tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm submitted in total for frozen.

The next container is labeled, "#5, level V lymph node." Received fresh for frozen section is a
fragment of anthracotic tissue that measures 1.5 x. 1.0 x 0.7 cm bisected and entirely'submitted for
frozen. -

The next container is labeled, "#6, level V lymph node.“ Received is an anthracotic fragment of
irregularly shaped tissue that measures 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm submitted in total for frozen.

The next container is labeled, "#7, level lV~L lymph node.“ Received fresh for frozen section is a
single fragment of anthracotic irregularly shaped tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.7 x 0.5 cm submitted in total for
frozen. '

The next container is labeled, "#8, level X lymph node.” Received is an anthracotic fragment of
tissue that measures 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm submitted in total.

The next container is labeled, "#9, level Xl lymph node.“ Received is a single anthracotic fragment of
tissue that measures 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm submitted in total.

The next container is labeled, "#10, level Vl lymph node." Received fresh for frozen section are
irregularly shaped, fragments of anthracotic tissue that measure in aggregate 2.9 x 2.8 x 0.7 cm entirely
submitted.

The next container is labeled, "#11 level Xll lymph node." Received are multiple anthracotic
fragments of tissue that measure in aggregate 2.5 x 2.2 x 0.5 cm submitted in total.

The next container is labeled, "#12, level X lymph node." Received are two anthracotic fragments of
tan-yellow tissue fragment measuring from 0,7 x 0.8 cm submitted in total.

The next container is labeled, "#13, level Xlll lymph node." Received is an anthracotic fragment of
tissue that measures 1.2 x1.0 x 0.8 cm that is sectioned and entirely submitted.

The next container is labeled, "#14, level Xll lymph node." Received is a single anthracotic fragment
of tissue that measures 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm bisected and entirely submitted.

The next centainer is labeled, "#15, bronchial margin." Received fresh for frozen section is a linear
fragment of cartilaginous mucosal lined tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm that is submitted in total for
frozen.

The sixteenth container is additionally labeled, "#16, left upper lobe." Received is an orange cassette
in formalin which was previously submitted. fresh for frozen. it holds a piece of tan-brown anthracotic lung
tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.3 cm. it is resubmitted entirely in cassette P1.

Also received in the sixteenth container is a lung lobe without fixative, measuring 20.0 x 10.0 x 4.5
cm. The visceral pleura is mottled tan/purple and anthracotic/black. There is a mass measuring 4.0 x 3.5
x 3.5 cm at the apex of the lobe. The mass was previously cut for frozen section, and also previously to
that in the operating room after explant. The cut surface of tumor is ten and irregular, with solid and cystic
areas. The cystic areas are traversed by bands of tumor tissue. The mass appears to abut, but not
breach, the visceral pleura. Diffusely patchy areas surrounding the tumor are ﬁrmer to palpation than the
grossly uninvolved lung parenchyma. The staple line of the medial parenchymal resection margin is
removed and the cut surface inked black. The pleura over the tumor is inked blue. The tissue is then
serially sectioned to reveal the following: The primary tumor is 1.8 cm away from the nearest surgical
margin (medial parenchymal, black). it extends 3.0 cm deep into the lung tissue. it is well-circumscribed
but not encapsulated, with an irregular deep contour. There is an area of grainy tan-green/black tissue
2.0 x 2.5 cm in maximum dimension lateral to the primary tumor. it too appears to touch but not breech
the overlying pleura. it appears dissimilar to the primary tumor, but still pathological compared to the
surrounding pare'nchyma. Similar foci of tan/green/black grainy tissue are scattered throughout the lung,
mostly inferiorly. None form discreet masses. The uninvolved parenchyma is a heterogeneous beefy
dark-redianthracotic—black. One solid black perihilar lymph node is found. Representative sections are
submitted per the block summary. ‘

- Block Summary

Al— Level lX lymph node.
31— Level Vlll lymph node.
C1- Level lX lymph node.
D1- Level Vll lymph node.
E1- Level V lymph node.
F1— Level V lymph node.
G1~ Level lV-L lymph node.
H1- Level X lymph node.
l1- Level Xl lymph node.

J1 - Level Vl lymph node.
K1 — Level Xil lymph nodes.
L1— Level X lymph node.
M1— Level Xlll lymph node.
N1- Level Xll lymph node.
01- Bronchial margin.

P1— Left upper lobe mass, frozen.

P2-P3- Mass with respect to nearest surgical margin (black).
P4-P6- Mass with respect to overlying pleura.
PT-Pa- Representative sections of tan/grainy area lateral to primary mass.

P9- Representative section of inferior tan/grainy area, with both anterior and posterior pleura
P10- Representative shave, medial parenchymal (black) margin.
P11- Anthracotic hilar lymph node.

P12-P13- Representative sections of grossly uninvolved lung.

Microscopic Description
A microscopic examination has been performed.

SP Synoptic Report P: Thorax Lung
SPECIMEN: Lobe(s) of lung: left upper lobe

PROCEDURE: Lobectomy

SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Intact

SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Left

TUMOR SITE: Upper lobe

TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 4 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal

HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Squamous cell carcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADEzGZ: Moderately differentiated
VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION: Not identiﬁed

TUMOR EXTENSION: Not identiﬁed -
BRONCHIAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
VASCULAR MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
PARENCHYMAL MARGIN: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

PARIETAL PLEURAL MARGIN: Not applicable

CHEST WALL MARGIN: Not applicable

OTHER ATTACHED TISSUE MARGIN: Not applicable

TREATMENT EFFECT: Not applicable

LYMPH—VASCULAR INVASION: Not identiﬁed

LYMPH NODES: Present ,

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pTZa: Tumor> 3 cm, and < 5 cm in greatest dimension surrounded by lung
or visceral pleura, without bronchoscopic evidence of invasion in themain bronchus; or Tumor < 5 cm in
greatest dimension with any of the following: involves main bronchus, 2 cm or more distal to the carina;
invades the visceral pleura; associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis that extends to the
hilar region '

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):Not applicable

    
 

Cm.- It

RH awe! anIah '

\7

