 

 

UUID:3577A3E1-A58F-47B2-A5CC-A35593A055CeEd
TCGA- AC- A3N7- DlA- PR

) llll llllllllllllllllll|||||l|lllll||l|lll||l||l|l|ll|||||l||||
lIHIl ilIImIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIllI IIIIIIIIIIIII‘IIIIIIHIII IIIIIIIIII IllI“

I am...“ ‘ Referring Physician:

 

 

' ii
DOB; Age: Gender:
Reﬁt: Hospit: Provider Group :
Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatient Case #1
Room: Date Reported:
A copy of this report will be faxed to: M
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
91%
A. - B.) BREAST, AXILLARY LYMPH NODE, RIGHT, MASTECTOMY AND
SENTINEL LYMPH NODE BIOPSY (400):
- Invasive Iobular carcinoma, grade 1.
- Multifocal, 40 mm, 14 mm and 5 mm in greatest dimension.
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LOIS).
- Surgical margins negative.
- One of two lymph nodes, POSITIVE metastatic carcinoma (1/2).
- Largest focus in lymph node: 2.5 mm ‘ C 0—0 , g
— No extracapsular extension identiﬁed. cam: mom laugh, in )3, [Hat-i 5g
5
c. BREAST, LEFT, MASTECTOMY: 5 I k: bWQINO 350 q j
- Sclerosing adenosis, usual ductal hyperplasia, columnar cell change and C ' ‘ ‘
apocrine metaplasia. 5' ' in

- No atypical hyperplasia or carcinoma identiﬁed.

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (RIGHT BREAST):
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive lobular carcinoma, grade 1.
Type and grade (in situ): Lobuiar carcinoma in situ (LOIS).
Primary tumor: pT2.

Regional lymph nodes: pN1a (1 of 2 lymph nodes POSITIVE).
Distant metastasis: N/A.

Pathologic stage: IIB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified.

Margin status: R0, negative, aII margins 20 mm or greater.

Breast Invasive Tumor Stag” ] Information ’W 0:512:33;
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, Ed, and orotocoi. .—-——-——
This staging also incorporates:
Previous biopsy:

Breast proﬂIe;

K’ID'
ual/Synch ooooo 5
RS:

 

Case #: Page 1

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

MR No. - icct No. - Patient Name
Pathoiogy Report - Page 1/5 Rage 1

 

Case #:

 

 

Specimen type:

Specimen procedure:

Lymph node sampling:

Specimen integrity:

Specimen lateraiity:

Specimen size (otherthan mastectomy):

INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:
Invasive tumor focality:
Histologic type:

Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorph ism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:

Mitotic count:

Other Grading System:

Lymphatic invasion:

MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:

DUCTAL CARCINOMA lN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LCIS):

Skin;

Nipple:

Skeletal Muscle:
LYMPH NODES:

INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (p1):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Pathologic stage:

RECEPTOR STATUS AND HERZ/NEU:
Estrogen receptors:

Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:
Ki-S? proliferative index:

Case it
Printed:

Phone:

MR No. Acct No. -

Pathology Report ~ Page 2/5

Total breast.

Total mastectomy.
Sentinel lymph nodes.
Single imam specimen.
Right.

N/A.

40 mm, 14 mm. 5 mm.
10:30.

Multiple loci.

Invasive lobular carcinoma.
Grade 1, cumulative score 5 of 9.
Less than 10%. 3 of 3.
Low—grade, I of 3.

Low, 1 of 3.

2 per 10 high power ﬁeld.
NIA.

Not identiﬁed.

R0, negative.

All margins 20 mm or greater.
N/A.

Not identiﬁed.
Present.

Present, not involved.
Present, not involved.
Not identiﬁed.

1 of 2 lymph nodes positive, 25 mm focus, no
exiracapsular extension identiﬁed.

pT2.

pNta (1 of 2 lymph nodes positive).
MA.

MB.

POSITIVE (99-100% positive cells. strong
intensity).

Negative (0% positive cells).
Negative (0, scale 0~3+).
Intermediate (11% positive cells),

Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)

U)

Patient Name -

 

 
   

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Comment: The touch preparation of the sentinel lymph
node biopsy was review and no evidence of
metastatic carcinoma is identified.

Additional pathologic ﬁndings: Usual ductai hyperplasia, columnar cell change
and apocrine metaplasia,

Signed by

 

Source of Specimen:

A. Sentinel lymph node;right sentinel node axillary
l3. Breastright breast
C. Breast;left breast

Clinical History/Operative Dx:

Rightileft breast cancer.

lntraogerative Diagnosis:

A. Right sentinel node axillary i: No tumor cells identiﬁed. (Dr. .I- The intraoperative
interpretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at ' ‘

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled right sentinel node axillary and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of
two lymph nodes measuring 1 x 0,7 x 0,7 cm and 1.5 x on x 0.4 cm. Both nodes are serially sectioned
and touch imprints are obtained. The larger node is submitted for permanent section in cassettes At‘AZ.
The smaller node is submitted for permanent section in cassette A3.

Case #: I Page 3

Printed: This report continues.,. {FINAL}
Phone:

MR No. - Acct No. ~ Patient Name -
Pathology Report - Page 3/5 . Page 3

Lu

 

 

 

 

 

Case #2 , _.. __

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

B. The specimen is labeled right breast tissue and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen which weighs 381 grams. A black suture at one end of the skin ellipse marks medial. With this
orientation, the specimen measures 16 cm from medial to lateral, 11 cm from superior to interior, and 4
cm from anterior to posterior. There is an overlying ellipse of tan skin measuring 11.8 x 7 cm. The areola
measures 3.3 cm and the nipple appears slightly inverted. The anterior—superior margin is inked blue, the
anterior'inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists variably of smooth facial
appearing lis5ue and tabulated fatty tissue. is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned along the
superior-inferior axis resulting in fifteen slabs. Step #1 is most medial.

in the central portion of the excision, in slabs 6-9, there is a stellate hard. gritty neoplasm (tumor #1) which
overall measures 4 cm from medial to lateral, 1.2 cm from superior to inferior, and 1 cm from anterior to
posterior. This neoplasm is 1.5 cm from the closest skin. it is 2 cm from the closest anterior-superior margin
and is greater than 4 cm from all other margins. Representative sections of the medial portion of the tissue
are obtained for research purposes and the biopsy site clip is identiﬁed within the neoplasm in slab 7.

Slab 10 (intervening tissue between tumor #1 and tumors #2 and #3) consists of palpably unremarkable
ﬁbrofatty tissue.

In slab 11, 1 cm lateral to the tumor #1. there is chalky yellow discoloration and slight retraction of the
ﬁbrofatty tissue suggestive of two small deposits of neoplastic tissue. The larger of these (tumor #2) is 8 cm
lateral to the nipple. it measures 1.4 x 1 x 0.6 cm and is greaterthan 2 cm from the anterior-superior,
anterior-interior, and posterior margins. It is 2.3 cm from the closest lateral margin and widely tree of the
medial margin.

The smaller tumor deposit (tumor #3) measures 0.5 cm and is 0.8 cm superior of the larger deposit in slab
11. it is 2 cm from the closest anterior-superior margin and greater than 2 cm from all other margins. No
other palpable lesions are identiﬁed. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed within the lateral portion of the
excision. Representative sections are submitted.

Section summary:

81) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

82) medial edge of tumor #1 from slab 6,

B3) anterior-superior margin (tumor #1), slab 6,

B4) central sections of tumor #1 from slab 7 (biopsy site clip here),
BS) anterior-inferior margin (tumor #1) from slab 7,

E36) tumor #1 from slab 8 including closest anterior-superior margin,
87) lateral section of tumor #1 from slab 8,

88) representative section from slab 10 intervening tissue between tumor #1 and tumors #2 and #3,
89) complete cross-section. slab 11, tumor #2 and #3,

810) section oftumor #2 in slab 12,

811) representative upper inner quadrant (slabs 2, 3, 4),

B12) representative lower inner quadrant (slabs 3, 4, 5),

813) representative lower outer quadrant (slabs 9 and 10).

C. The specimen is labeled left breast tissue and is received in formalin. it consists of a mastectomy
specimen weighing 341 grams. A black suture at one end of the skin ellipse marks medial. With this

Case #1 Page 4

Printed: Phone- ’ This report continues... (FINAL)

MR No. - Acct No. Patient Name

Pathology Report - Page 4/5 c ,- . a») ~ Page 4

 

I Patten“ l

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

orientation, the specimen measures 15.5 cm from medial to lateral, 11 cm from superior to inferior, and
5,5 cm from superficial to deep. There is an overlying broad ellipse of ten skin which measures 12 x 7 cm.
in the lateral skin, there is a 0.4 cm violaceous skin lesion. Centrally, there is a well-dellneated 4 cm
areola and a ﬂat to slightly retracted appearing 1 cm nipple. The anterior—superior margin is inked blue,
the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists of lobulated fatty
tissue, with central fascial appearing tissue. is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned at close
intervals to reveal lobulated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white ﬁbrous parenchyma which is most
prominent centrally, The ﬁbrous parenchyma is locally ﬁnely nodular to palpation but there are no
discrete areas suggestive of invasive neoplasm. There are scattered small ﬂuid-ﬁlled cysts within the
ﬁbrous parenchyma. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed within the lateral portion of the excision.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:

01) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

C2) lateral skin lesion.

C3) representative upper inner quadrant,

C4) representative lower inner quadrant,

CS) representative upper outer quadrant,

C6) representative lower outer quadrant.

07-08) sections of central breast including central deep margin

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis

rendered. lmmunohistochemistry was performed with adequate control and shows positive staining for
metastatic tumor cells in one lymph node.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis

rendered,
Dr. notiﬁed of results or. at
Case #: l Page 5
Printed: END OF REPORT (FINAL)
Phone: . s _ . .
MR No. Acct No. - Patient Name - l

Pathology Report - Page are 3age 5

