 

   

female presents today for craniotomy
or resect1on o e t tempera rain tumor. History of headaches, left
eye blurriness. MRI showed abnormality in left temporal area.
GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimens in the Department of
Pathology, labeled with the patient's name and hospital #:
A. . Tumor
B. Tumor #2
The specimen is received fresh and consists of a 6.5 x 4. 0 x 1. 5 cm
rectangular piece of cerebral cortex and underlying subcortical white
matter. The deep surfaces are cauterized and focally hemorrhagic. The
meningeal surface has a prominent surface vasculature with the usual
gyral and focused pattern. Sectioning reveals the majority of the
specimen to have a clear demarcation between apparent cortex and adjacent
white matter layers, however, along one deep edge the gray matter is
obscured by an ill—defined firm white lesion measuring 2.2 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm
in greatest dimension. A representative section of the lesion is
submitted for frozen section. Frozen section diagnosis is, "Infiltrating
glioma with-focal ‘ ' areas; final diagnosis deferred to permanent
sections," per The frozen tissue is submitted for permanent
processing in cassette FSAl. Additional representative sections of the
lesion are submitted in cassettes A2-A6. A representative section of
uninvolved cortex is Submitted in cassette A7.
The specimen is received without fixative and consists of a 2.5 x 1.8 x
0.4 cm rectangular piece of cortical brain tissue. Sectioning reveals
the demarcation between the gray and adjacent white matter layers to be
smudged and ill— defined. No discrete lesion is grossly identified. A
representative portion of the tissue is submitted for frozen section.
Frozen section diagnosis is, "Infiltrating glioma, " per - The
frozen tissue is submitted for permanent processing in cassette. FSBl.
The remaining tissue is entirely submitted in cassettes 32— B4.
DIAGNOSIS:

A. "Tumor":
' Anaplastic mixed glioma (oligoastrocytoma) (WHO Grade

  

 

III) (see comment}

B. "Tumor #2":

Anaplastic mixed glioma {oligoastrocytoma} (see

comment) ‘
COMMENT: This infiltrating glioma extensively infiltrates gray and white
matter. The predominant pattern is that of a diffuse anaplastic
astrocytoma with moderate nuclear and cellular pleomorphism and
significant mitotic activity (5 mitoses per ten high power fields in some

 

areas). However, areas~having a very uniform and distinctly
oligodendrogliomatous histologic appearance are also present, although
these are in the minority. The K167 labeling index is about 10—15%
overall. These findings support the diagnosis. The tumor is negative
for’PTEN and EGFRVIII The pattern of GFAP immunoreactivity suggests
positive staining of both neoplastic and reactive elements.

The status of chromosomes 1p and 19g will be determined by
fluorescence in situ hybridization and reported as an addendum to this
report. "I, or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination

and description and I have personally revieWed the gross description and
specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this

report."
ResidentlProsector/Pathologist: _

Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance
characteristics determined by Some tests
have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes and should not be
regarded as investigational or for research. This laborator is certified
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of_ as
erf ‘ h complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Pathologist
Electronically signed— '
ADDENDUM.

Chromosomes 1p and 19 q analysis:
FLUORESCENCE IN SITU HYBRIDIZATION (FISH) WAS PERFORMED ON REPRESENTATIVE

PARAFFIN- EMBEDDED TUMOR TISSUE (VYSIS). IN THIS CASE, NO DELETIONS OF lP
OR 19Q WERE IDENTIFIED.

REFERENCES:

 

 

