UUID: C65141F1-754F-43E1- 5155-4D4COBOEIBEeDd ' '“ FM
TCGA- FD— A5C1- BIA- PR

II II I III III IIIII I III IIIII! I IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III!!! ..
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII !I|III LC (ED-6'3
IIIIIIIIIII|ll||IIIl|I|I|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII

amt/7 21.4] male

MC 0% mOL /

. 3/ 4510'; /ﬂjZVcI—), art/Zmof’
ginger: Female EULA 5332,6141 purer/am wad/5 @757

Race: White 8%; 5, 7? 3/49””, [@ng (2)2144

Pathology Report: 9%) IZ/Q ll // Z

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
- Eighteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/18).

B. Leﬁ pelvic lymph nodes; dissection:
— Twelve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 12).

C. Urinary bladder; cystectomy:
- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, invading thru the muscularis
propria and into the perivesical tissue, see pathologic parameters.

D. Uterus and round ligaments; supracervical hysterectomy:

— Uterus with inactive endometrium and adenomyosis.

- Bilateral fallopian tubes, no tumor.

— Bilateral ovaries with age-related physiologic changes, no tumor.

E. Distal right ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3 Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (macroscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 1.5 cm with ulceration, right lateral,
anterior and posterior walls.

5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

8. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/30).

9. pTNM: pT3b,N0,MX.

_ , ‘ this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

xx

[1 MD

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [], M.D.

Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:

Patient is a year—old female with high grade urothelial carcinoma invasive to
the muscularis propria on biopsy undergoing cystectomy, hysterectomy, and
bilateral oophorectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Right pelvic lymph node
B: Left pelvic lymph node

C: Bladder

D: Uterus and round ligaments
E: Distal right ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in ﬁve containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph

node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 9 x 6 x 2 cm aggregate of
yellow-tan, lobulated adipose tissue. This specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
and 23 her found ranging from 0.3-3.7 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes
are submitted entirely as follows:

A1: 6 lymph node candidates

A2: 6 lymph node candidates

A3: 6 lymph node candidates

A4—A6: One lymph node, bisected in each cassette (3 total)
A7-A8: One lymph node, bisected

A9-A10: One lymph node, sectioned

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 7 x 4.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
yellow-tan, lobulated adipose tissue. The specimen is dissected for lymph nodes
and 14 are found ranging in size from 0.5—5.5 cm in greatest dimension. The
lymph nodes are submitted entirely as follows:

B 1: 6 lymph node candidates

82: 6 lymph node candidates
83-84: 1 lymph node, bisected
85-87: One lymph node, sectioned

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder". Received fresh
and place in formalin is a 312 g cystectomy specimen with overall measurements
of 15 x 12 x 4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 2.5 x 0.4 cm, and the left
measures 2.5 x 0.4 cm, and both demonstrate intact patent lumens. The serosal
surface shows yellow lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue with focal cautery artifact.
The urethral margin measures 2.3 x 1.5 cm, is inked black, and the bladder is
inked black. The specimen is opened anteriorly to reveal a 4.5 x 4.5 cm
indurated, ulcerated lesion in the right lateral/anterior/posterior wall. On cut
section, the mass extends into the perivesicular soft tissue and is 0.3 cm from

the closest deep margin. There is a 0.5 cm ﬁrm, white nodule in the
perivesicular adipose tissue 0.3 cm deep to the bladder mass and 9 cm from the
inked margin. In the right distal bladder there is a 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm ﬁrm
tan-white, ill-deﬁned area in the perivesicular soft tissue with punctate
hemorrhage and no corresponding mucosa] lesion. The surrounding bladder mucosa
is edematous, pink—tan, smooth with a 0.5 2.7 cm wall thickness. Bilateral
ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent to the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cl: Distal urethral margin

C2: Right and left ureter resection margin (right side is inked blue)
C3-C4: Bladder mass with invasion to prevesicular tissue and nodule (one
full thickness section, bisected)

C5: Bladder mass closest to ink and adjacent grossly unremarkable mucosa
C6: Bladder mass and adjacent grossly unremarkable mucosa

C7: Additional section of mass

C8: Uninvolved the bladder dome

C9: Uninvolved posterior leﬁ

C10: Right distal perivesicular ﬁrm tissue

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "uterus and round

ligament". Received fresh and placed in formalin is 49 gm supracervical
hysterectomy specimen measuring 3.8 cm from fundus to lower uterine segment by
3.8 cm from cornu to comu by 2.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosal
surface is red-tan, pink-tan M. roughened. The specimen is opened revealing a
triangular endometrial cavity measuring 2.5 cm from comu to cornu by 2.8 cm in
length and lined with grossly atrophic endometrium measuring 0.1 cm in
thickness. The specimen is sectioned reveal pink-tan, trabeculated myometrium
which is up to 1.1 cm in greatest thickness.

The right adnexa structure consists of a 7.5 cm long and 0.4 cm diameter
timbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink-red and glistening. The specimen

is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and less than 0.1-0.2 cm wall
thickness. The attached white-tan, cribriform ovary measures 3.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm
and is sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan ovarian stroma with multiple
corpora lutea.

The left adnexa structure consists of a 6.5 cm long and 0.5 cm diameter
ﬁmbriated fallopian tube. The serosa is pink—red and glistening. The specimen
is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint lumen and a less than 0.1-0.2 cm wall
thickness. The attached white-tan, cribriforrn ovary measures 2.5 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm
and is sectioned to revealed ﬁbrotic, white-tan ovarian stroma with multiple
corpora lutea. '

Also received in the same container is a separate portion of brown ligament and
adipose tissue measuring 3.3 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
D1 2 Anterior endomyometrium

DZ: Posterior endomyometrium

D3: Sections of right fallopian tube

D4: Right ovary

D5: Sections of leﬁ fallopian tube

D6 leﬁ ovary

D7: Round ligament

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "distal right ureter

stitch on the non-margin".

Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 1.5 cm long segment of appearing
ureter with attached adipose tissue. There is a clear suture designating the
non-margin side. The margin side is inked blue, the specimen is bisected and
submitted as E1.

XXX
[1, MD.

  
    
    
    
 
 
 

Crh ifll‘

 
 

rumor Site
h Ma

“not

 
 

I: use is
Rev-2w”

 
 
  
 
 

