UUID:D66CF219-3082~4DC3-8139-FOBC65CE1e844ac
TCGA-DE-A7U5-81A-PR

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY |||
Case Number : H”

Diagnosis:
A: Thyroid, total thyroidectomy

Tumor histologic type: Papillary thyroid carcinoma, usual
variant

Tumor size: 2.4 cm (gross measurement)

Tumor focality & laterality: Unifocal, right

TCKD O 55
Tumor capsule: Not applicable C: ‘QE3M )JDS $2éi>L3
I'M
Extent of invasion: 6112/: U‘ *4 #05 (17ng
Capsular Invasion: Not applicable % ﬁllé/lé’f

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified
Blood vascular invasion: Present
Extra thyroidal extension: Not identified

Surgical margins: Positive, transected over a distance of 9
mm at the black inked posterior margin (A4). Isthmus and
anterior margins are negative.

Status of thyroid gland away from tumor: Severe lymphocytic
thyroiditis, with follicle formation

Lymph nodes: Three negative lymph nodes are identified
in this specimen (0/3)

Size of largest metastasis (greatest dimension): Not applicable

Extracapsular (perinodal) extension: Not applicable

AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage: pT2 pNO

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Lymph node, right level 6, regional dissection
- No metastatic carcinoma in 5 lymph nodes (0/5)
~ Benign parathyroid tissue also present

Clinical History:

-year-old female with FNA positive for malignancy, favor
papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is received in a formalin—filled container labeled
with the patient's name and total thyroid and is a 36.2 gram,
thyroid. The specimen arrives with one suture in place
designated right. The right lobe measures 7.1 cm superior

to inferior x 3.4 cm medial to lateral x 2.5 cm anterior to
posterior and the left lobe measures 4.9 cm superior to inferior
x 2.3 cm medial to lateral x 2.3 cm anterior to posterior and
the isthmus measures 2.9 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is inked
as follows: anterior/blue, posterior/black, and

isthmus/yellow. Tumor is given to tissue procurement. The
thyroid gland is sectioned from superior to inferior. The cut
surface reveals a 2.4 x 2.4 x 1.6 cm well—circumscribed
white/tan mass centered in the right lobe. The center of

the mass is significant for soft hemorrhagic material. The
uninvolved thyroid gland is red/brown and firm. There are no
other focal nodules or lesions. The mass grossly abuts the blue

and black inked margins, but does not appear to extend beyond
the capsule.

Block Summary:

A1—A4 — Representative sections of mass (A1 shows closest
approach to blue and black inked margins)

A5 — Uninvolved thyroid, left lobe

A6 — Uninvolved thyroid, right lobe

Specimen B is received in a formalin filled container labeled
with the patient's name and "level 6 nodes right" and is a 2.1 x
1.2 x 0.6 cm aggregate of yellow lobulated fat. The specimen is
palpated and two lymph node candidates are identified measuring
0.6 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm.

Block Summary:
B1 - Two lymph node candidates
B2 - Remainder of fat, submitted entirely,

Criteria

Yumar
HIPAA

Case is

 

