 

UUID : SCFSSAF1—0227-430C-99CD-C2A524CFFA29
Redacted

I IIIIIIIIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIQIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||||I||II|||I|||||

Patient: [Referring Physiclan:

II IIII||||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIlllIlllIllllIlIIIlIIIIIIII|||||
DOB: III lIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllll

Ref#: Patient Location:

 

 

Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatient Cat
Room: Bed: Date Reported:

 

 

A copy of this report will be faxed to:

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. -C) RIGHT BREAST WITH AXILLARY SENTINEL LYMPH NODES, MASTECTOMY
WITH SENTINEL LYMPH NODE BIOPSIES (X 2).
- Invasive Iobular carcinoma (multlcentric), Nottingham grade 2.
- Main tumor mass measures 57 mm in diameter.
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), comprising less than 5% of tumor volume.
- Resection margins are free of tumor.
- Invasive tumor is focally present 2 mm from the deep (pectoralis fascia)
margin, and is at least 30 mm from all other margins.
- Metastatic carcinoma is present in two sentinel lymph nodes (2I2).
- Metastatic carcinoma is diffusely present throughout both lymph nodes.
- No extranodal extension is present. / 5A ,4 ,3

0mm, me WWW bwa

.9530 3
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS: &h: M N05 (LE/0.7

Type and grade (invasive): Invasive Iobular carcinoma, grade 2. /3//
Type and grade (in situ): Lobular carcinoma In situ, nuclear grade 2. It“) 6 I
Primary tumor: pT3.

Regional lymph nodes: pN1a.
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: IIIA.
Lymphovascular invasion: Present.
Margin status: Negative (R0).

 

COMMENT: The main tumor mass measures 57 mm in diameter. The tumor cells
diffusely inﬁltrate a relatively discrete dense ﬁbrous area in the central breast. A few
smaller foci of invasive Iobular carcinoma and LCIS are present in representative
sections taken away from the main tumor mass, but the main tumor burden is in the
central breast. The pathology ﬁndings were telephoned to Dr. ‘ ” ’

Case #: Pathology Consultation Report Page 1

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)
Phoni

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient:
_l
Case #2
FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Case #: Patholoav Cam-uremia- a“-.. Page 2
This report continues... (FINAL)

Printed: Phone-

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case #:

I
L

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information

(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol, Oct 2009). This staging also incorporates:

Previous biopsy:
Breast profile: ‘

Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:

Lymph node sampling:

Specimen integrity:

Specimen laterality:

Specimen size (other than mastectomy):

INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:

Invasive tumor size:

Invasive tumor site:

Invasive tumor focality:

Histologic type:

Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:

Mitotic count:

Lymphatic invasion:

MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:

Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:

LOBULAR CARCINOMA (LCIS) FEATURES:
Extent:

Nuclear grade:
Necrosis:
Caicifications:

Total breast.

Mastectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsies x
2

Sentinel lymph nodes.
Single intact specimen.
Right.

17 x 12.5 x 2.5 cm.

57 mm.

Central.

Muiticentric (central, UOQ, LIQ, LOO)
Invasive iobular carcinoma.

2 of 3 (intermediate grade).

3 of 3.

2 of 3.

1 of 3.

Five mitoses in ten high power fields.

Present.

2 mm.
Deep (bounded by pectoralis fascia).

Invasive carcinoma is at least 30 mm from all
other margins.

LCIS present in association with invasive
carcinoma, and in representative sections away
from main tumor mass.

Intermediate grade.
Not present.
Not present.

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Margin status for LCIS component:
Distance of ln—situ from nearest margin:

Skin:
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:

INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (pT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):

RECEPTOR STATUS AND HER2/NEU:
Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:

KI-67 proliferative index:

Negative.
At least 10 mm.

Unremarkable.
Unremarkable.
No skeletal muscle present.

pT3.
pN1 a.
pMX.

POSITIVE (100% positive cells, strong intensity).
Negative (less than 1% positive cells).

Not overexpressed (lHC score 1+).

12% positive cells.

Signed by .

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Right Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node
B. Right Breast total mastectomy

C. Sentinel lymph node;Right Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled right axillary sentinel lymph nod
of a 2.9 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm discoid lobulated portion of fatty tissu

e #960 and is received in formalin. It consists
e. On dissection a single 1.6 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm

lymph node is recovered. The node is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette A1.

B. The specimen is labeled right breast and is received without ﬁxative. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen which weighs 232 grams. A suture marks the tail of the breast. With this orientation, the
specimen measures 12.5 cm from superior to Inferior, 17 cm from medial to lateral and 2.5 cm from
superficial to deep. There is an overlying 15.5 x 7 cm ellipse of mottled tan to pale red skin. Medially and

inferiorly within the skin is a 2.8 cm areola and a slightly retracted a
bulging but otherwise unremarkable. The anterior-superior margin i
margin Is inked green. and the posterior margin. which consists of s

ppearlng 0.8 cm nipple. The skin is
s inked blue, the anterior-inferior
mooth fascial tissue is inked black. The

breast is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal a central ﬁrm and relatively well circumscribed area

of ﬁbrous breast parenchyma. This ﬁbrous parenchyma overa
2.5 cm from superior to inferior. and 1.7 cm from superficial to

the deep margin by a thin layer of movable fascial tissue. The fibrous breast parenchyma is 3 cm from the

II measures 5.7 cm from medial to lateral,
deep. The ﬁbrous tissue is separated from

Case #: Pathology Consultation Report Page 4

Printed: Phone:

This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

Daﬂnnbl

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

inferior margin, 3 cm from the superior margin, 4 cm from the medial margin, and 6 cm from the lateral
margin. It is 1 cm from the closest skin and abuts the fascial margin of the posterior breast centrally.
Representative samples of this tissue are obtained for research purposes. Sections of this fibrous breast
tissue reveal a central and inferiorly located area of hemorrhage with a twisted biopsy site clip. The
remainder of the breast is composed predominantly of fatty tissue but rubbery ﬁbrous parenchyma extends
to the lowervouter quadrant. There are no obvious lymph nodes in the tail of the breast. Representative
sections are submitted. Section summary:

B1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

32) central deep margin (fascial tissue),

B3) medial edge of central ﬁbrous tissue,

B4) superior edge of central mass,

B5) inferior portion of central mass (biopsy site clip here),

86-87) additional central sections of tumor (86 has deep margin).

B8) lateral edge of fibrous mass,

89) representative sections upper-inner quadrant,

B10) representative sections lower-inner quadrant,

B11) representative sections upper-outer quadrant,

B12) representative sections lower-outer quadrant.

C. The specimen is labeled right axillary level two sentinel lymph node and is received in formalin.
It consists of a 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm tan lymph node with a small amount of adherent adipose tissue. The
specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette C1.

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected In the diagnosis
rendered.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

Case #1 Pathology Consultation Report Page 5

ri e : R T:O' . l t
P nt cl Phone . EPRIN rig prnlng on

