 

 

 

Patient Name:
tilled. Rec. it:
008:

Gender.

Ref. Physicmn:
Patient Address

 

Rel Source:

 
 
 
 

is _& History;

  
 
 
  
 

‘1: SP: Lymph nodes paracavalmxcisi
2: SP: KIdney right; Eelainephreetemy
3: SF“: cSizwfttisstre perinepliric; excisier
4; SP: Lympimedes #2 paracavel; ex

Additional Cepy :e'

ilh pariéal nephrectemy. new with ipsilateral recurrence.

Accession #:
Date of Procedure

Date of Receipt: ;
Dale of Repel? i
Accouni #r .
Billing Type:

 

 

 

   

DIAGNOSIS:
1 SP: Lymph nodes, paracavat; excisio-
Lymph Nodes:

Net identified

Benign iIhrmd‘spuse tissue; no lymph nodes identiﬁed In entirely submilted specimen

2. SP: Kidney, right; total nephrectemy
Tumor E'yee:
Renal cell carcinoma - Papillary type
Type 2

Fulrrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade ElillV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3.8 cm.

Local invasion (for renal corneal types);
Involves renal hriar iai

Renal Vern invasion:
Net identiﬁed

Sergiwi Margins:
free of tumor
Non—Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremarkabte

Adrenal Gland;
Net identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Net identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell caIcinomaloncocytoma:

 

 

 

 

 

 

p‘I'3a Turner Invades the adrenal gland or perinephrio tissues but not beyond Gerota's fascia

 

3. SP: Soft tissue, perinephric; exeisior
Fibroadipose tissue with ﬁbrosis. fat n i I lotion; no tumor seen.

\.

4. SP: Lymph nodes #2. paracaval; excision
Lymph Nodes: .
Not involved
Number of nodes examined?
Benign segment of ureter.

lAtTEST [HAT {HF ABOVE BMGNOSIS lS BASEE) UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINARON OF THF SLIDES (ANDI’OR OEHER ty‘IATERmL), AND THAT i HAVE
REVlEWED 15.th APPROVED THIS REPORT

 

 

 

Gross Description;

1) The specimen is received fresh, labeled ”paracavai lymph node" and consists of a 2.4 X 1.8): 0.4 cm tregrnent of ion red tissue.
No deﬁnite tvmph nodes are identiﬁed. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U ~~ ondesignatod

   

2) "the specimen is {eceived fresh labels no I ney an canals s of a kidney with attached ureter, tonal vessels and
pertnophric lat weighing 281.5 g in total. The kidney measures 7.9 x 5.2 x 5.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 2.4 cm in
length and 0.4 cm in diameter. The attached renat vein measures 1.9 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkahte. An adrenal gland is not identiﬁed, There is a 2.9 x 2.3 cm previous excision site at a
kidney pole. the excision site is inked blue white the remainder of the kidney is inked black. The Kidney is bivalved to reveet a
3.8 x 3.7 x 3. 3 cm targetv hemorrhagic and partiatly gotd — tan tumor that is toceled in the hiiar let. Sections through the remainder
of the kidney reveal pink— brown perenchyma. wrth a watt-deﬁned cortico—medullary junction. The cortex measures 0.6 d the
calyces appear normal. No lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perlnephric tat. Representative sections are submitted {oi—ind
for permanent sections. Photographs are taken.

Summary of sections:

UVM .. ureterei and vessel margins
Tw turner

THF~ tumor with hits; to!

TSF .. tumor vrrth sinus tat

TK -- tumor with odgaoent kidney
TC ~~ tumor to capsule

l< -— representative sections kidney
ex -. previous excision site

3} The specimen is received fresh tor trozen section consultation, labeled ”perinophric soft tissue stitch marks area of interest"
and consists of a fragment or ﬁhroadipose measuring 5,0 x 3.? x 2.4 cm. The specimen is locally sunaced by a 3.5 x t .0 cm
fragment of ﬁbromernbranous tissue. The area around the stitch is inked btactr. The remainder of the specimen is inked blue.
Cut surfaces show a 2.9 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm area of fat necrosis with a capsule. There are multiple surgical staples within the
specimen Representatively submitted for trozon section.

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

    

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Summary of sections:
FSC .. frozen section control
U A odditiOnat representative sections

4) '{no specimen is received in formalin labeled "parocaval tymph nodes #2" and consrsts ol a 3.2 x 2.0 x 0,3 cm irregular

libretetty soft tissue fragment to include multiplepink tan totty lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 cm up to 2.8 cm in greatest
dimension. All identified lymph nodes and; the remaining ﬁbrous tissue is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
ELM-bisected lymph nodes
LN-tymph nodes

U - undesignatert

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Lymph nodes, paraeaval; excisi-

   
  

Btock Sect. Site PCs f
1 ti 2
B,
Part 2: SP: Kidney, right; totat nephrectom-
Block Sect. Site P05
1 BX t
1 K 1
1 T 2
t to 'l
1 THF 3
l TK 2
‘l 'E‘SF 2
1 tivm 3

Part 3: SP: Soft tissue. perinephrto; oxeislo

  

Block Sect. Site PCS
1 FSC ’1
4 U 4

  

Part 4: SP: Lymph nodes #2. parscavat; excisio

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 bin 2
2 in 2
1 u 1

tittruopcruiige ('Ionsutiuiiw
Note: The diagnoses gluon in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined Hi the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

3} FROZEN SECTEON DEAGNOSES: PERINEPHRIC SOFT TISSUE (F8): FEBROSIS AND CALCEFICATlON (LiN)
- ' ..NT DlAGNOSlS: SAME

  

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

 

 

