 

' ' '5 & Hislo :
ith large left renal mass with left renal vein thrombus (negatlve mete work-up).

Specimens Submitted:
1: SP: Left kidney. distal pancreas. spleen. and left adrenal gland. radical nephreclomy, partial pancrealeclomy and eplanectomy

: : Soft tissue, vena cava. biopsy !
3: SP: Lymph nodes, para-aortic, excls on
4: SP: Soft tissue. left psoas muscle. biopsy

 

 

DiAGNOSlS:

1. SP: Left kidne distal pancreas, spleen. and left adrenal gland, radical nephreclomy, partial pancreataotorny and

splenectomy
Tumor Type: _

Renal cell carcinoma — Conventional (clear cell) type

The tumor ls growing almost entirely with seroornetoid features (sarcomatoid carcioma).

Fohrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade [VIN

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 15 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
lnvolves Gerota's fascia
involves renal sinus fat
lnvolves renal hilar fat

Renal Vein Invasion:
ldontlfieri

Surgical Margins:

Tumor ls focally present at inked resection margin.
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:

Chronic inflammation

Adrenal Gland:
involved by tumor by direct extension

Lymph Nodes:
Free of tumor

Staging for renal cell carcinomaloncocytoma:
pT4 Tumor invades beyond Gerota’s fascia

Comment: The tumor directly extends lnto the adjacent segment of pancreas.

 

Page 1 of 3

' W

Unremarkable spleen.

 

2. SP: Soft tissue, vane cave. biopsy .
Fragments of carcinoma are present.

3. SP: Lymph nodes, para-aortic. excision -
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined213

........................................................

4. SP: Soft tissue, left psoas muscle, biopsy
Edemalous soil tissue with chronic inflammation an ﬁbrosis.

1) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Distal pancreas. spleen, left kidney and adrenal gland. it consists of a 1.5 kg
radical neptuectomy specimen measuring 24.0 x 13.0 x 11.5 cm with s 7.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm segment of ureter and wllh an attached
adrenal gland. spleen and segment of distal pancreas. The adrenal gland measures 8.0 x 3.0 cm. the 1169 spleen measures 11.5
x 7.0 x 3.5 cm and the distal segment of pancreas measures 7.0 x 2.0 cm. The specimen is inked black and blvalved to show a
15.0 x 12.5 x 11.0 cm well-circumscribed ﬁrm lan~whlla mass with central necrosis. hemorrhage and focal cystic degeneration.

The mass occupies the majority of the kidney with a small portion of normal renal parenchyma identiﬁed at the tower pole of the
kidney. The lesion grossly involves the renal vein and its branches but is grossly not present at the renal vein margin. The tumor
pushes into the renal sinus fat and directly abuts the overlying inked resection margin. The tumor also shows direct extension into
the attached adrenal gland and portion of pancreas. The spleen is grossly uninvolved by tumor and serially sections show no
gross abnormalitels. Photographs are taken and sections of tumor are taken for TPS. Representative sections are submitted.

 

 

Gross Description:

Summary of Sections:

UVM - urelerei and vascular margin

VEINTUM — renal vein with tumor

TUlvii-llLUlvl .. tumor with hilum

TUMSiNUS — tumor with renal sinus
TUMCATS m tumor with overlying capsule
TUMADJ — tumor with adjacent normal kidney
TUMADR — tumor and adrenal

TU MPAN -— tumor and pancreas

NLKiD «— represcntative sections from uninvolved kidney
SPLEEN ~ representative sections from spleen

2) The specimen is received in formalin. lei—e e urnor rom vena cava . onsists of a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm fragment of

tan-red soil tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted in its entirety.

Summary of Sections:
U ~ undeslgnated

3) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Para-aortic lymph nodes". it consists of a 4.5 x 2.8 x 1.8 cm fragment of
hemorrhagic fibroedlpose tissue with multiple staples. Multiple lymph nodes are identified measuring from 0.2 to 1.1 cm in
greatest dimension. All lymph nodes are submitted.

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

Summary ct Sections:
U ~ undeslgnated

4)

The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Soil ﬂame of left psoas muscle". it consists of two pieces of tan-red soft

tissue measurlng 3.7 x 2.6 x 0.3 cm and 3.? x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. No gross abnormalities are identiﬁed. The specimen is serially

sectioned and submitted in its entirety.

Summary of Sections:
U ~ undesignated

Somme

of Sections:

 

Part1: SP: Left ktdne ,dlsteipancreas,spleen, and left adrenal gland. radical nephrectomy, partial pancreatectomy

and spisnectomy

Block

A—kMM—Jvﬁ-JN-J—L—X

Part 2: SP: Soft tissue. vena cava, blopsy I

Block
1

Part 3:

Block
4

Part 4: SP: Soft tissue, left psoes muscle, biopsy I

Block
3

Sect. Site
nlkld
spleen
tumadj
lumadr
tumcaps
tumhllum
tumpan
tumsinus
uvrn
velntum

Sect. Site
u

SP: Lymph nodes, para-aortic. excision I

Soot. Site
u

Sect. Site
U

P
‘i
’i
‘i
2
7
‘t
2
2
1
'3

P05
1

PCs
4

PCs
3

 

Page 3 of 3

END OF REPORT

