 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SFECIMEN'DESIGNATED "RECTUM AND SIGMOID COLON, PARTIAL COLECTOMY":
(22.0 cm):

ADENOCARCINOMA, low grade, moderately differentiated (6. 0 cm in

greatest dimension).

Tumor is located in rectum, forms a polypoid mass, and has a pushing
border.

Tumor invades into the muscularis propria.

Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor.

Invasive tumor is 18.0 cm from proximal resection margin, 3. 3 cm from
distal resection margin, and 0.6 cm from radial resection margin.

Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.

Extramural venous invasion is not identified.

Perineural invasion is not identified. ,

Peritumoral lymphoid response (including Crohn?s~like infiltrate) is
mild.

Residual adenoma is absent.

Diverticulosis.

Regional lymph nodes (positive:total): 0:14.

AJCC Classification (6th edition): T3 N0 ax.

B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "UMBILICAL HERNIA":
Inflamed mesothelial-lined fibroadipose tissue consistent with hernia

sac .

C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "ADDITIONAL PROXIMAL COLON, RESECTION" (12 cm):
Large bowel with diverticulosis.
There is no evidence of malignancy.
One lymph node, negative for tumor (0:1).

'CLINICAL '
History: kwith rectal cancer .

Operation: Lower anterior resection + colostomy.
Operative Findings: Not provided.
Clinical Diagnosis: Rectal cancer.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:

A. Low anterior resection open + return
B. Umbilical hernia

C. Additional proximal colon

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in three parts, each labeled with the patient's

name and unit number.

Part A, "low anterior resection”, consists of a segment of colon, consisting of
rectum (22.0 cm in length x 4. 9 cm in diameter) and sigmoid (7. 5 cm in length x
4. 5 cm in diameter). The distal stapled resection margin (4. 3 cm in length) is
inked black and the proximal stapled resection margin (5.5 cm in length) is
inked blue. There is abundant yellow- red mesocolon and the serosa is tan—pink
and smooth. The specimen is opened to exhibit a taanink, friable, exophytic

 

 

 

mass (6.0 x 4.2 x 1.2 cm), which exhibits rolled up borders and is located 3.3
cm from the distal margin and 18.0 cm from the proximal margin. A
representative section of the tumor and of normal colon is allocated to tissue
bank. On out section, the mass is tan—pink, measures up to 1.9 cm in greatest
thickness and comes to 0.6 cm from the deep margin (inked orange). The mass
invades muscularis propria. The uninvolved mucosa is tan—pink and exhibits
several unComplicated diverticula. Multiple tanupink lymph node candidates are
identified ranging from 0.3 to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension.

Micro A1: Perpendicular proximal and dis 1 margins, 2 frags, -
Micro A2: En face radial margin, 1 framh
Micro A3HA7: Fungating mass to include greatest depth (A3), 1 frag in each,

RSS.

' Micro A8: Diverticulum, l frag, !

Micro A9: 1 trisected lymph node can idate, 3 frags, -

Micro AlO—All: 5 lymph node candidates in each, 5' frags in each-

Micro AlZ-«AlB: 4 lymph node candidates in each 4 frags in each
Micro A14: 5 lymph node candidates, 5 frags, -

Part B, "umbilical hernia", consists of an irregular tan—pink smooth to focally
ragged fibromembranous saccular soft tissue (3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm), 'which is
serially sectioned to exhibit a tan—pink surface. No hemorrhage or necrosis is
noted.

Micro Bl: 2 frags, -.

Part C, "#3. Additional proximal colon", consists of a segment of'colon (l2.0
cm in length x 2.0 cm in diameter) with an opened resection margin (2.5 cm in
length — inked blue) and a stapled resection margin (3.5 cm in length — inked
black). The attached abundant mesocolon is yellow~red unremarkable. The
serosa is tan—pink, smooth, and glistening. The specimen is opened to exhibit
a tan/pink glistening mucosa with normal fold architecture. Several
uncomplicated diverticula are identified. No masses or lesions are identified,
A 0.3 cm tan—pink lymph node candidate is identified.

Micro Cl: Perpendicular margins, 2 frags
Micro CZ—CB: Diverticulum, 3 frags total
Micro C4: 1 lymph node candidate, 1 frag

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination (”gross only" exam if '30 stated)
of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

 

Page: 2 of 2

 

 

