9“

Clinical Notes Report
-Surglcal Pathology Report -

Result Type: Surgical Pathology Report
Result Date:
Performed By:

Encounter —
info:

Surgical Pathology Report
MODI FI ED-

Surgical Pathology Report

cum Numb... ‘ Name:—

Requested By:
DIAGNOSIS:

UUID:34F5F45E-FE71-401C-A892-99638A6¢CBBB
x Redacted

K'A‘ﬁﬁl'ﬁﬁiliﬁi‘ununmmmmInn
'1'1'“ l'1{W“1‘1“willmunuumunmmmml In

ll \I \|IIHIHIMHIIIIIIHIH\IIMIIIHHHIlIIHIIIHIHIII

“(WWW/b W3 5740/ ‘5

511:9.)mf42ﬁms Cog/.0;
q“ sized/ii

A. Right internal/external obturator lymph nodes: Metastatic
prostatic adenoearcinoma in one of nine lymph nodes. The lymph node
metastasis measures 5 mm in maximum diameter; there is no extranodal

extension.

B. Left external iliac lymph nodes: Four lymph nodes negative for

carcinoma.

C. Left internal iliac lymph nodes: Metastatic prostatic

adenocarcinoma in one of three lymph nodes. The metastasis measures
approximately 6 mm in diameter; there is no extranodal extension.
D. Left obturator lymph nodes: Two lymph nodes negative for

carcinoma.
E. Prostate. '
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy.

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the prostate, acinar type.

Histologic grade:
Primary pattern: 5, Secondary pattern: 5.
Total Gleason Score: 5+5=10.

The patterns here include comedo carcinoma with centre

1 necrosis

and multiple calcifications. fused glands with loss of acini, and

areas showing Signet ring cell formation.

Tumor quantitation and location: Carcinoma involves the right and
left sides from apex to base with relative sparing of the left base.

Each section from the right and left sides shows CBICl
generally in excess of 2 cm in diameter within that block.

noma measuring

Extraprostatic extension: Present. Carcinoma bulges into the
pericapsular adipose tissue in several areas: extensively around
both seminal vesicles and posteriorly adjacent to the left apex, the

left midprostate, and the right midprostate.

Margins: The proximal and distal urethral margins are involved by
adenocarcinoma, within distal periurethral prostatic stroma on the
right and left sides in over a diameter of 5—6 mm and within the
proximal periurethral prostatic stroma and urethral mucosa on the
right side in a focus 2 mm in diameter. The apical margins, bladder
neck margins, and pericapsular margins are negative for carcinoma.

Lymph—vascular invasion: Present.

Perineural invasion: Present. extensive throughout the carcinoma

and in the capsule.

Seminal vesicle invasion: Present. The carcinoma extensively

involves the right and left seminal vesicles in foci of

extraprostatic carcinoma up to 2 cm in diameter on both sides. The

PRINTED

PAGE 1 OF 4

right seminal vesicle is largely obliterated by carcinoma.

Tr atment effect on carcinoma: Not applicable.

Ly ph nodes: Two of eighteen (2/18) lymph nodes are positive for
me astatic adenocarcinoma, one in the right internal/external

ob urator and one in the left internal iliac node groups, with these
me astases measuring 5 and 6 mm in diameter, respectively, and

sh wing no extranodal extension (specimens A through D above).
Ancillary studies: DNA ploidy is ordered on block E10 and will be
anions]: IN AN ADDENDUM.

Pathologic staging: pT3b, le (see above for details of nodal
involvement).

Bi repository sample (if applicable): Yes, 100% high-grade

ad nocarcinoma.

Bl ck(s) containing malignancy suitable for additional testing:

E8 12.

i
I Interpreted by:

Report electronically signed by
Transcribed by:

DDENDUM:
Pa affin embedded tumor tissue was sent to for
DNA ploidy bv . The report
follows:
I
Source: Prostate, Radical Prostatectomy, Black 310
Results:

The cancer cells are DNA aneuploid.

i
DIA ploidy test results have been validated by our laboratory for
formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissue sections. Analysis was

performed using the ‘ instrument 3. which
determined DNA ploidy status by comparing the DNA content of tumor
cells and control cells (selected by : operator). This test

was developed and its performance characteristics determined by
. This test has not
been cleared or approved by the U.s. Food and Drug Administration.

1

P4oliferation index (NIB-1) = 7.46%.

K3-67 Antigen immunohistochemical test results have been validated
b: our laboratory for paraffin embedded tissue sections fixed in
formalin. Testing is performed using the NIB—1 clone and a
p lymer—based detection system. All controls show appropriate
rQactivity. Image collection and analysis is performed using the
’ instrument, . The ' renders the
percentage of positive staining tumor nuclei (tumor selected by
operator). This test was developed and its performance
characteristics determined by
. This test has not been cleared or approved by the 0.5.
qud and Drug Administration.
I
1

Transcribed by:

I
Signed by
|

PRINTED ' PAGE 2 OF 4

CLINICAL INFORMATION :
Prostate cancer.
I
I
SPFCIMEN(S):
A:Right internal,external obturator lymph nodes
B:Left external iliac lymph nodes
C:Left internal iliac lymph nodes
D:Left obturator lymph nodes
E:Frostate

Al'2A3A4A5AEBIBZB3B4C1C2D1D2D3E1E2EBE4E5ESE7EBEQElOEl1E12E13El4ElSE1
a).

I
GRbss DESCRIPTION:

Performed by , V

A. Received fresh labeled m and "right internal,
external obturator lymph nodes“ is a .5 x .5 x 1.5 cm collection
of fatty tissue which is sectioned to reveal several rubbery lymph
nodes measuring up to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. The nodal
tissue is entirely submitted labeled Al-AS) one bisected
lymph node per block; A6) six whole lymph nodes.

EB. Received fresh labeled 'W'and “left external
iliac lymph nodes" is a 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.0—cm collection of rubbery and
,fa ty tissue which is sectioned to reveal several rubbery lymph
nddes measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The nodal
tissue is entirely submitted labeled Bl-Bq) one bisected
lymph node per block.

C. Received fresh labeled 2% "left internal
iliac lymph nodes" is a 4.0 x 2.0 x 0.5—cm collection of rubbery and
fatty tissue which is sectioned to reveal a few rubbery lymph nodes
measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The nodal tissue is
entirely submitted labeled C1) one lymph node, bisected;
CZ) two whole possible lymph nodes.

’ . Received fresh labeled Wand "left obturator
l ph nodes" is a 6.7 x 1.5 x 0.5—cm irregular fragment of rubbery
a d fatty tissue which is sectioned to reveal two rubbery lymph
nddes measuring up to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is
emtirely submitted labeled . D1) one lymph node, trisected;
n2—o3) one lymph node, trisected.

,3. Received fresh labeled "w and "prostate".
Procedure: Radical prostatectomy. . ‘

Prostate size: Weight: 64 grams; Dimensions: 5.0 x 4.5 x 4.0 cm:
Seminal vesicles right and left: Approximately 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm.
Gross notes: Grossly evident tumor: Yes, size approximately 4.5 x
2.0 x 1.5 cm. Location: Extending from apex to base along the
p sterior aspect of the specimen {right and left).

Symmetry: Symmetrical.

Gross nodular hyperplasia: Moderate.

Gross capsular bulge/defect: None.

1 Inking: left—black, right-blue

l Biorepository sample collected: Yes.
Lymph nodes: No lymph nodes present.

B ock key for specimen E:

l) proximal urethral margin

2) distal urethral margin

3) left apical margin, perpendicular

4» right apical margin, perpendicular

5» left bladder neck margin, perpendicular
Gﬁ right bladder neck margin, perpendicular
7f left apical prostate

PRINTED PAGE 3 OF 4

8) right apical prostate
9)1le£t mid prostate

10! right mid prostate

1%) left mid prostate

120 right mid prostate

13h left base of prostate
14) right base of prostate
159 left seminal vesicle
169 right seminal vesicle

A itional sections:
173 sample corresponding to research

Support for the diagnosis in this case may have included the
use of immunohistochemistry tests that were developed and whose
performance characteristics were determined by

. They have not been cleared
on approved by the 0.5. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
nI essary. These tests should not be regarded as investigational
on for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ('CLIA') as qualified
to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

 
    
  
 
     

  

Tumut
IIPAA
’lior
Lad/Synchronous

Rewewad.

' v—r—‘~“T‘~_‘n

PRINTED .‘ ' _ PAGE in CF 4

