Results

Patient information
Datinnt Mama MRN
' . ' ' i

Result information

Status
Final

Entry Date

Provider Status
Ordered

Component Results

Component
Surgical Patholncv
Patient Name:

' “ ““j

“-— l

Final Diagnosis

A. Right distal ureter. biopsy:
- Segment of benign ureter
- No carcinoma or dysplasia is seen

- Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed on permanent sections

B. Left distal ureter, biopsy:
~ Segment of benign ureter
- No carcinoma or dysplasia is seen

~ Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed on permanent sections

C. Urinary bladder and prostate. radical cystoprostatectomy:

awe”

BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Ordel'

Sex one

Lab

I’CeDrAO'

/'

:5 ,
b umoﬂcw “05

@on 3

(pl) 903/13

~ invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, invasiveJntdmusW and

predominantly involving anterior bladder wall

- Tumor measures 4.7 cm in greatest dimension (macroscopic measurement)

- All surgical margins are free of carcinoma and dyspiasia

— Nineteen pelvic lymph nodes. negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/19; see

parts D, E and F)
- TNM pathologic stage: pT2b N0 Mx

- Bladder with acute and chronic inﬂammation and reactive urothelial atypia,

biopsy site changes. cystitis cystlca and focal intestinal metaplasia

- Benign prostatlc and seminal vesicle tissue with patchy acute inﬂammation
- Urethral margin with patchy necrosis, acute inﬂammation and reactive

urotheiial atypia

- Frozen section diagnosis of urethral margins is conﬁrmed on permanent

sections
» See CAP template below for further details

CAP Template for carcinoma of the urinary bladder.
Specimen: Bladder and prostate

Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Site: Anterior bladder wall

Tumor Size: 4.7 cminmgreatest dimension

,...«-u

“""l-iistologlc Type: Urotheiial (transitional cell) carcinoma“ """" ‘3

“42:12:22: 3:21.131,

(’73

UUID: 55AD4C75 -61D8 -4377 -A4FB- 1311CFDGACA8

TCGA-GU-A764-91A-PR

Redacted
||||||||||

 

Page 1 of 6

Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed

Histologlc Grade:

Urotheliai Carcinoma (WHO 2004IISUP): High-grade

Tumor Conﬁguration: Ulcerated

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis prepria
Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

- t
Lymph-Vascularlnvasion: Absent

 
 
   

Pathologlc Staging (pTNM :

“Faun-M

“Primary Tumor (pT): pT2b:
muscle) _

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number

umor invades deep muscularis propria (detrusor

examined: 19
Specify: Number
involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologlc Findings: Urotheilai inﬂammation, biopsy site changes,
focal intestinal metaplasia

Ancillary Studies: Not done. Blocks 05 & CG can be used for additional
studies. if needed.

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCCIUICC TNM, 7th
edition.

D. Right pelvic lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
~ Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/7)

E. Left common iliac and presacrai lymph nodes, lymphadenectomy:
— Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

F. Left pelvic lymph nodes. Iymphadenectomy:
- Eight lymph nodes. negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/8)

Clinical History
Bladder cancer
Radical cystectomy. orthotoplc neobladder diversion. possible iieal conduit.

Source:

A: Right distal ureter margin

B: Left distal ureral margin

C: Bladder and prostate

D: Right pelvic lymph nodes

E: Common ileacs and presacral
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes

Page 2 of 6

Gross Description

Specimen A received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name and
"right distal ureteral margin". The specimen is a pink—tan ring-shaped tissue
fragment measuring 0.4 cm in diameter, 0.2 cm in length. The tissue is entirely
submitted for frozen section, subsequently entirely submitted in A1.

Specimen B received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name and
"left distal ureteral margin“. The specimen is a pink-tan ring-shaped soft

tissue fragment measuring 0.6 cm in diameter. 0.3 cm in length. The tissue is
entirely submitted for frozen section. subsequently entirely submitted in Bi.

Specimen C received in formalin labeled with the patients name and "bladder
prostate".

Type of specimen: Urinary bladder, ureteral stumps, prostate, seminal vesicles
The patient' 3 name. requisition, and specimen containers all match.
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Fixative: Received fresh. later placed in formalin

Dimensions: Bladder superior to inferior 8.0 cm, right to left 7.0 cm. anterior

to posterior 2.8 cm. Prostate superior to inferior 2.5 cm. right to left 3.2

cm. anterior to posterior 2.7 cm. The right ureteral stump 2.2 cm in length and
0.5 cm in diameter. The left ureteral stump 3.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter.

Description of ﬁndings:

Tumor: The anterior bladder wall reveals a hemorrhagic ulcerated firm tumor
mass measuring 4.7 cm superior to inferior. and 2.9 cm left to right. The
central portion of the tumor is ulcerated, hemorrhagic and necrotic. On
sectioning, dense gray-white solid apparent tumor tissue can be seen invading
the full-thickness of the muscularis: however. does not appear grossly to have
extended beyond the overlying perlvesicular adipose tissue. The posterior
bladder wall has a focally hemorrhagic somewhat edematous appearance. The
bladder lining in the dome appears grossly unremarkable. The prostate has a
normal gray~white lobuleted. somewhat spongy appearance. The urethral lining is
red-brown. friable, and appears necrotic. The seminal vesicles appear grossly
unremarkable. No lymph nodes are identified within the attached perivesicular
adipose tissue.

lnk Code: Anterior bladder wall blue, posterior black. Prostate right side
orange. left side blue.

Section key:

Ct urethral margin #1 frozen section

C2 urethral margin #2 frozen section

C3 right ureteral resection margin and ureteral orifice

C4 left ureteral resection margin and left ureteral orifice

C5-CQ sections of tumor

010, C11 sections of posterior bladder wall

012 bladder dome

C13 left lateral wall

C14 right lateral wall

C15 trigone

C 16 right prostate apex sectioned radially

Ci 7. C18 right prostate

C19 left prostate apex sectioned radially

020.021 left prostate

022 right seminal vesicles and vas deferens

023 left seminal vesicles and vas deferens

Comment: Fresh tissue was obtained for tissue procurement
Specimen D received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right

pelvic lymph nodes". The specimen consists of two irregular fragments of
focally hemorrhagic lobuleted yellow adipose tissue measuring in aggregate 8.5 x

Page 3 of 6

3.5 x 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals eight apparent
lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.7-2.6 cm. The specimen is submitted as
follows:

Di one node bisected

DZ one node bisected

D3 one node bisected

D4 one node bisected

D5 one node bisected

DS three whole nodes

Specimen E received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and "left common
lilac and presacral pelvic lymph nodes“. The specimen consists of three
fragments of focally hemorrhagic lobuleted adipose tissue measuring in aggregate
4.0 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm. Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals four apparent
lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.6-2.9 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted
as follows:

E1 one node bisected

E2 three whole nodes

Specimen F received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "left pelvic
lymph nodes“. The specimen consists of multiple fragments of focally
hemorrhagic lobuleted adipose tissue measuring in aggregate 4.8 x .40 x 1.4 cm.
Sectioning through the adipose tissue reveals eight apparent lymph nodes ranging
in size from 0.4~2.4 cm. The nodes are submitted as follows:

F1 one node bisected

F2 one node bisected

F3 one node bisected

F4 one node bisected

F5 one node bisected

F6 three whole nodes

Microscopic Description
The stain quality is acceptable.

A—F. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnoses rendered.

lntraoperative Diagnosis

Time in: Time out:

A1. Right distal ureter margin biopsy: "Negative for carcinoma or high grade
dysplasia“.

Time in: . Time out:

Bl, Left distal ureter: "Negative tor carcinoma or high grade dysplasia".
Time in: Time out:

C1. Bladder and prostate urethral margin: "Necrotic tissue with scant viable
epithelium with focal atypia. favor reactive. cannot rule out dysplasla".

"*Eiectronicallv Stoned Out By

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂ
Results

Egtholcgy Report - Scan 03 « : Intraogerative Consultation Report
Result History . .

BlOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN i ‘ - Order Result Historv Report.

 

 

Collection information

Page 4 of 6

