    

Pathology Report

DIAGNOSIS
(A) LEFT ADRENAL—SPARING RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY:
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA INVOLVING KIDNEY:

Type: conventionaliclear cells
Fuhrman grade: 2
Size: 4.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm

Location: mid-pole
Soft tissue invasion: through renal capsule into pert-renal connective tissue into renal sinus

Renal artery: no tumor present
Renal vein: no tumor present
Ureter: no tumor present

Resection margins: free of tumor
(B) GALLBLADDER:
Chronic cholecystitis; no tumor present.
Cholelithiasis.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
(A) LEFT ADRENAL-SPARING RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY - A radical nephrectomy specimen (19.0 x11.0 x 4.0 cm) including the left

kidney (11.5 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm), a segment of renal artery, renal vein, and a segment of ureter (4.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm average diameter).
No adrenal gland is present.

There is a well-circumscribed tumor (4.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm) in the mid pole of the kidney. The tumor is bright-yellow, without areas of
hemorrhage and necrosis. The tumor is confined to the kidney, approximates the kidney capsule, and does not grossly invade into the
perinephric adipose tissue. The tumor is situated in the proximity (0.1 cm) of the renal sinus and renal vein. The tumor does not extent
to the Gerota's fascia. The adjacent kidney parenchyma is unremarkable. The
pelvicalyceai system is smooth and devoid of any lesions. No lymph nodes are identified in the hilum of the kidney.

Representative sections of the tumor are submitted for possible electron microscopy as well as other research protocol.

INK CODE:

Black: perinephric adipose tissue in the proximity of the tumor.

SECTION CODE:
A‘i, ureter, renal vein, artery vein resection margins (en face); A2-A4, tumor with closest renal capsule and inked perinephric adipose

tissue; A5, tumor in the proximity of the renal vein; A6, A7, tumor in the proximlt of the renal sinus; AB, tumor with surrounding normal

renal parenchyma; A9, representative section of normal renal parenchyma. i

(B) GALLBLADDER - An intact gallbladder (9.0 cm in length and 5.0 cm in maximum circumference). The bile is dark green. The mucosa

is pink-green. The wall of the gallbladder is 0.2 cm in thickness. A black irregular stone is identified measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm.
SECTION CODE:

31 , cyst duct; 82, representative sections of the gallbladder. -

CLINICAL HISTORY
None given.

SNOM ED CODES
T-7’I 000, M-83123

