ICE 0 —8

Cara/no riodc,de€// N65
Clean C’d/ fypt «SB/2%3
(SW/*6: @0611? ,A/Qf

Mao/m Lyn 4’9

uuro:59939c41-9B4D-454B-973F-aa1a4A36Anan
SURGI TCGA-BS-ASAI-elA-PR Redatlil‘lted

Case A IllIllllllHlllllllllllllIlll|||||||||llllllllllﬂl|||||||||||||
l IlllllllillllllmlllllllHIIIIIHINIHIIHIIII
D, . illillllilhllilllllI"IllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllll
iagn031s I

A: Kidney, left, robotic laparoscopic partial nephrectomy
Laterality: unilateral; left side

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell
subtype (see comment)

Sarcomatoid features: absent

Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrman grade 3 of 4

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 6.7 cm in greatest dimension
Tumor focality: unifocal

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or
microscopic): -

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: tumor invades into,
but not

through capsule (microscopic); perirenal adipose tissue negative
for malignancy

Gerota' s fascia: negative for malignancy

Venous (large vessel): not identified

Lymphatic (small vessel): Present (A5)

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Renal parenchymal margin (partial nephrectomy only): - negative
for

malignancy; tumor is 1 mm from the parenchymal margin

Renal capsular margin (partial nephrectomy only): ~ negative for
malignancy;

tumor is 2 mm from the capsular margin

Paranephric adipose tissue margin (partial nephrectomy only): —
negative for malignancy; tumor is 1 mm from the perinephric
adipose tissue margin

Adrenal gland: not received
Lymph nodes: not received

Pathologic findings in non-neoplastic kidney: Extensive
lymphoplasmacytic inflammation with numerous loose granulomata;

special stains for micro—organisms will be reported as an
addendum
AJCC Staging: ple pNX

This staging information is based on information available at
the time of this

report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional

information.

Comment:

Immunohistochemical stains are performed on block A3 and
demonstrate the tumor

is diffusely positive for CD10 while being negative for CK7,
CD15, CD117, and

has faint positivity for racemase. While not entirely specific,
this

immunophenotype is consistent with renal cell carcinoma, clear
cell subtype.

Clinical History:
-year—old male with a left renal mass.

Gross Description:

Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally
labeled "left

renal mass." It holds an 85 gram, 7.5 x 5.1 x 4.2 cm partial
nephrectomy. There

is a small amount of attached perinephric fat. The parenchymal
margin is inked

black, and the perinephric soft tissue margin is inked blue. The
specimen is

sectioned to reveal a 6.7 x 4.1 x 4.1 cm variegated friable
pink/tan mass

expanding the renal capsule and focally abutting the black inked
parenchymal

margin. The surrounding cortex appears compressed and slightly
distorted. The

renal capsule is expanded and there is a 0.6 cm area of pale
white nodularity

(A6), but appears grossly intact. The small amount of attached
perinephric fat

is intact. Tumor is given to Tissue Procurement.

Representative sections are submitted of the lesion to include
its relationship

to the black inked parenchymal margin, blue inked capsular
margin, capsule and

adjacent parenchyma.

A1—2 — tumor and black inked parenchymal margin
A3 —tumor, capsule, perinephric fat

A4 —tumor and blue inked perinephric fat margin
A5 —tumor and fat

A6 -tumor and capsular nodule

Addendum
The purpose of this addendum is to report the results of special

stains for microorganisms.

Addendum Comment
Special stains for microorganisms performed on block A2 (GMS and

AFB) are
negative. The original diagnoses are unchanged. The differential

diagnosis for
the numerous granulomata includes sarcoidosis.

Mso,;¢,epanw‘iﬂl.7’ m " i do J

Primary Tun nor Site Di- mummy
We Mv

M
’n_or Maliﬁmnq ”khan,

Dual/Syntbromuxl’rima ' ‘

   
 
 
   

 

