 

 

 

 

DOI Femsb
mu:
F"
MD:
/ C A , O - 3 "Loam
WW! WW) NV5 KWI/B WEISC'IIRGEmmm
5.41.? WW 05+! W , "m
I h}, H "
J Surgical Pathology Report - Final
COLLECTED DATE Irma REGENEO DATE I TIME accessoon wuss:
Clinical Infbfmaﬂon uum:sasasrsa-anzs-anu-aans-aoAaEEcneEse
Endomeirlal cancer TCGA-AX-AZHF-61A-PR Redacted
IllIIlllIlllllIIII"II“HI"IIIlIlllIllllllllllllHIIIIIHIHIIIII
Diagnosis HI||| || ||

. |
A. Left saiplngo-oophorectomy:
Ovary: Flbrothecoma (4.5 cm). I “II”“l"lllllll"“Illlllllllllllmll

Fallopian tube: without diagnostic abnormality.

B. Total abdominal hysterectomy with right saipingo-oophorectomy:
Uterus and cervix (71 gramq):
Uterine serous carcinoma with focal clear cell features, FIGO 3, see summary.

Other findings:

Cervix: squ ous atrophy. Focal necrotlzlng vasculitls.
Endometrlu (background): Inactive.

Myometrlum: focal necrotlzlng vasculltis. see comment.
Serosa: small peritoneal Inclusion cyst.

Right ovary ahd fallopian tube: without diagnostic abnormality.

SUMMARY F¢R ENDOMETRIAL NEOPLASMS:
Specimenls) ubmltted and Procedure(s): uterus. cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes. bilateral ovaries, omentum and
regional lym nodes; total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy.
regional lym node dissections.
Specimen int. rlty: intact, bivalved.
Histologlc type: serous with focal clear cell features.
Histologlc grade: high grade. FiGO 3.
Tumor size: 2.5 cm.
Myometrial inilasion: present, outer half, see comment.
Depth of l vasion: 8 mm.
Myometria thickness: 14 mm.
Involvement of cervix: not appreciated.
Lower uterind segment involvement: not appreciated.
Lymphatic vascular space Involvement: not appreciated.
Extent of invdlvement of othsr organs: none.
Margins: f of tumor.
Summary. c logy: negative, see separate report(s).
Summary, lymph node dissections:

r’AGE1OFB

 

mum _

ooe- :AoE. -. ,.....secFemale

 

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

NOTED DATE I “ME RECENED DATE I TIME ACCESSION WMBER

All regions: Total positive/total removed: (0/30).
Pelvic lymph nodes: Total positive/total removed: (0/27).
Pars-aortl lymph nodes: Total positive/total removed: (0/9).
Additional hologic findings: as above.
Summary. lllary studies requested/obtained: study(ies) obtained on fresh tissue.
Summary, Cll ical history: see electronic medical record.
Distant met tasls(es): unknown.
AJCC 7th edl ion Pathologlc Staging: pT1b pN0 pMX FlGO la grade 3

C. - J. Regional lymph node resections:

No evidence of tumor in a total of thirty six lymph nodes (0/36). as follows:
. Left e rnal lilac lymph node: (0/8).

Left ob urator lymph nodes: (0/3).

Left co men lymph nodes: (0/3).

Left pe aortic lymph nodes: (0/5).

Right e emal lilac lymph nodes: (0/5).

. Right 0 turator lymph nodes: (0/4).

l. Right ce'pnmon lymph nodes: (0/4).

J. Right perlaortlciymph nodes: (0/4).

92"!“9“

I

K. Omentectemy:

No evidence of tumor.

Patinlogist/Elecbonically signed:
Report veriﬁed at:
Comment

Focal areas exhibit a tubal pattern with cytoplasmic clearing consistent with focal features of clear cell carcinoma (slide
89). Depth of invasion is difﬁcult to measure because the tumor focus is poiypoid. At it's closest point (slide B13), tumor is
approximateiyb mm from serosa. in an adjacent section (on the same slide), the myometrium Is 14 mm thick, so depth of
invasion is calculated as 8 mm in a 14 mm thick myometrium.

Rarely vasculitis identiﬁed in the gyn tract is associated with systemic disorders or symptoms.

Surg Path intraoperatlve Frozen Section
A. FS: Left ovam Fibroma. Reported to Dr. with read back. AD.

Specimen

A. Leﬂ fallopian tube and ovary.
B. Uterus. right tube and ovary.
0. Left extede mac lymph node.

PAGEZOFB

 

”new. M

 

 

 

Do. to: .male
MN!
FIN:
Surgical Pathology Report - Final
COLLECTED DATE I M RECEIVED DATE In»: ACCESSIW WMBER

Left obturator lymph nodes.

Left comrnpn lymph nodes.

Left periao'rtlc lymph nodes.

. Right extel'nal illac lymph nodes.
Right obtul'ator lymph nodes.

i. Right comnion lymph nodes.

J. Right periabrtlc lymph nodes.

K. Omentum.

aommp

Gross Description

A. Received lresh for frozen section diagnosis properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled ”left fallopian tube
and ovary” is 'a 4.5 x 2.5 x 2 cm tan—gray. glistening ovary. The specimen ls sectioned to reveal striated. homogenous cut
surfaces. A pprtion is submitted for frozen section diagnosis. Attached to the ovary Is a 4 cm in length by 0.5 cm in
diameter flmbilated fallopian tube. The serosa appears tan-brown. and smooth. The specimen Is sectioned to reveal a
complete plnploint lumen. A portion of tube is submitted fresh for research.

Cassette summary.

1. Frozen section of ovary

2-3. Ovary

4. Fallopian tube.

B. Received fresh properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "uterus, right tube and ovary“ is a 71 9 previously
opened uterus with attached right adnexa. The utems measures 7.5 cm from cervix to fundus. 4 cm from comu to cornu,
and 3 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosa appears pink-brown, smooth, and unremarkable. The cervix appears
tan-gray. locally hemorrhagic. glistening, measures 3.8 cm In diameter, with a 0.3 cm slitlike as. A portion of attached
vaginal muco ls present on the posterior surface measuring 2.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The upper endocervical canal is
remarkable for multiple cystic structures filled with gelatinous material ranging In size from 0.3-1.5 cm In greatest
dimension. These cysts appear to have a smooth inner lining. The endometrlal cavity measures 3 cm from oornu to
oornu, 3.5 cmll'rom cervix to fundus. 0.3 cm In thickness, and is remarkable for a friable, fungatlng. polypold mass
measuring 2.5 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm located primarily on the right side, and extending into the lower uterine segment. Upon
sectioning. the mass is located 0.8 cm from the serosal surface and 0.4 cm from the upper endocervical canal on the
anterior aspect, and is located 7 cm from the serosa surface. and a 0.3 cm from the upper endocervical canal on the

posterior aspect.

The attached right flmbriated fallopian tube measures 5 cm in length, 0.5 cm In diameter. with a serosa which appears
purple-tan, and smooth. The tube is sectioned to reveal a complete pinpoint lumen. The attached yellow-tan, cerebrlforrn
ovary measurias 2 x 1 x 0.8 cm, and is sectioned to reveal tan-gray. smooth out surfaces. Portions of tumor are submitted
fresh for study.

The anterior is inked blue. the posterior and right adnexa are inked black.

Cassette summary:
1. Vaginal mucosa

PAGE3OF6

 

 

IIVI

 

 

 

DD. ‘ rd.
M1:
FIN:
Surgical Pathology Report - Final
COLLECTED DATE / TIME RECEIVED DATE / TIME ACCESSION NUMBER

Cervix anterior

Upper endpcervical canal anterior

Cervix posterior

Upper endpoervical canal posterior

8. Represented sections of the cystic structures within upper endocervical canal
7-8. Full-thickness section bisected of mass on anterior
9-10. Full-thickness section bisected of mass on anterior
11. Endomyoinetrlum anterior

12-13. Full th knees sections of mass on posterior

14. Endom etrlum posterior

15. Left parametria

16. Right parametrla

17. Fallopian tube

18. Ovary.

neww

C. Received lh forrnalln properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled ”left external lilac lymph node are multiple
portions of ﬂbroadlpose tissue which aggregate to 5 cm In greatest dimension. Upon dissection multiple pink-tan, firm
lvmoh nodes are identified ranging In size from 1-2 cm In greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary:

1. 2 candidate nodes bisected. one Inked blue
2. 2 candidate nodes bisected. one Inked blue
3. 3 candidate nodes

4. 1 candidate node bisected.

0. Received lh formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled ”left obturator lymph node" is a portion of
fibroadlpose tissue measuring 5.5 x 3 x 1 cm. Upon dissection multiple tan-brown. flnn candidate nodes are Identified
ranging In slz from 0.5-3 cm In greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette sum ary:

1. 2 candidate nodes

2—3. 1 candidate node sectioned.

E. Received In formalin properly labeled with the patient’s name and labeled ”left common lymph nodes" are multiple
portions of tibrloadipose tissue which aggregate to 3 cm in greatest dimension. Upon dissection 3 tan-brown, firm.
candidate lymph nodes are Identified ranging in size from 0.7-1 cm in greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are
submitted.

Cassette summary.

1. 2 candidate nodes

2. 1 candidate node bisected.

PAGE4OF8

 

"mm“

005‘, . .: Female

3?;

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

OGLECTED DAT! I TM RECEIVED DATE I TIME AOCESSICN WMDER

K. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient‘s name and labeled ""omentum Is a portion of fibroadlpose tissue
which aggro te to 14 x 12 x 5 cm. The specimen ls sectioned to reveal 95% yellow, Iobulated. glistening adipose tissue.
and 5% bro fibrous tissue. No masses or areas of Interest are Identified grossly.

Microscopic Description
A microscopiclexamlnation has been performed and is reﬂected in the above dlagnosis(es).

QC

PAGEBOFG

 

 

PATIENT:
nos: sex: Female

 

Surgical Pathology Report - Final

 

CQLECTED DATE I TIRE RECEIVED DATE I 'nwe AWESSIW WMBER

F. Received In formalin properly labeled with the patient‘s name and labeled "left perlaortlc lymph nodes“ are multiple
portions of ﬂbrloadlpose tissue which aggregate to 4.5 cm In greatest dimension. Upon dissection multiple pink-tan, firm
lymph nodes are Identified ranging In size from 1.2-2 cm. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summam

1-4. 1 candldete node each, bisected

5. 2 candidate nodes bisected, one inked blue.

G. Received In formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled “right external lilac lymph nodes“ are
multiple portions of fibroadlpose tissue which aggregate to 6 cm In greatest dimension. Upon dissection multiple pink-tan.
firm lymph nodes are identified ranging In size from 1-3 cm In greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are
submitted.

Cassette suminary:

1. 1 candidate node bisected

2. 1 candidate node bisected

3. 2 candidate nodes

+5. 1 candidate node bisected.

H. Received lh formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled “right obturator lymph nodes" are multiple
portions of flbrioadlpose tissue which aggregate 4.5 cm In greatest dimension. Upon dissection multiple tan-brown. firm
candidate nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.5-3.5 cm In greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are
submitted.

Cassette summary

1. 2 candidate nodes

2. 1 candidate node -

3-4. 1 candidate node bisected.

I. Received In formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled ”right common lymph nodes“ are multiple
portions of flbnoadlpose tissue measuring 5 x 2 x 0.5 cm. Upon dissection multiple tan and brown. firm lymph nodes are
Identified ran In size from 0.5-2.5 cm in greatest dimension. All possible iyrnph nodes are submitted.

Cassette sum ary:

1. 2 candidate node

2. 1 candidate node bisected

3. 1 candidate node bisected.

J. Received in formalin properly labeled with the patient's name and labeled "right perlaortic lymph nodes" Is a portion of
ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 3.5 x 2 x 1 cm. Upon dissection multiple tan-brown. ﬁrm lymph nodes are Identified ranging
in size from 0.5-1.5 cm In greatest dimension. All possible lymph nodes are submitted.

Cassette summary

1. 2 candidate nodes

2. 2 candidate nodes

3. 1 candidate node bisected.

PAGE 5 or 6

 

