     
  

{or 5.» [xvi-2’ u <4 up; ass-1. r: 'at‘ _E1&E mango-arcs Exttﬁﬂf'rfk am

Report Status: Fin

 
 
   
  
  
  

Accession Number. ,
Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type: ' rtial or total resection
Procedure Date:

Ordering Provide

CASE:
PATIENT: F“

   

CGA - 82 “5464

 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

   

SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "LEFT KIDNEY WITH PIEC OF RENAL VEIN”:
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA clear cell typ , Fuhrman nuclear grade II,
multifocal, in kidney parenchyma (largest focus, 7. 5 cm, in upper
pole to middle region), extension into perirenal soft tissue and renal vein
(See NOTE).
Renal artery, inked margins, and Gerota's fascia are negative for tumor.
Adrenal gland is negative for tumor.
Renal vein margin is positive for tumor.
Lymphovascular invasion is present in perirenal blood vessels.
AJCC Classification {6th Edition): T3b Nx MK.

NOTE:
Some of the separate nodules grossly appear to be due to venous spread.

CLINICAL DATA

History: None given. n¢//’/’
Operation: Left radical nephrectomy with IVC resectio
Operative Findings: None given.

Clinical Diagnosis: Left renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED: .
A/l.‘ heft kidney with piece of renal vein (F8 for tumor bank).

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
' The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient's name, unit number,

and "#1. Left kidney and piece of renal vein", and consists of a left radical
nephrectomy specimen (940 grams; 21:0 x 14.0 x 9.5 cm), to include: kidney
(13.0 x 8.0 x 7.5 cm), renal artery (1.9 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter),
distorted renal vein (4.0 cm in length x 2.7 cm in diameter), ureter (3.7 cm in
length x 0.5 cm in diameter), abundant perinephric adipose tissue with attached
Gerota fascia (9.2 x 7.0 x 0.1 cm). The deep margin is inked black and the
specimen is bivalves, exhibiting a golden yellow/red, dominantly solid, focally
cystic, nodular, ill—defined mass (5.0 x 4.5 x 4.2 cm) within the upper pole,
grossly invading/obstructing and dilating the renal vein, and protruding from
the renal vein margin. Multiple golden yellow/red, hemorrhagic tumor nodules
(ranging from 0.2 up to 1.5 cm in diameter) extend from the aforementioned
upper pole mass into the mid and focally lower pole parenchyma (approximately
50% involvement). Tumor grossly involves multiple medium and small caliber
vessels (subvein/venule). The upper pole mass and additional tumor nodules do
not grossly invade through the renal capsule. The ureter/pelvocaliceal system
is distally edematous. The pelvocaliceal system and renal arteries grossly
uninvolved by tumor. Multiple dark brown/red nodules (? lymph node versus
tumor in venule), ranging from 0,3 up to 0.6 cm in greatest dimension within
the perihilar adipose tissue. The remaining parenchyma exhibits a well-defined
Corticomedullary junction. Also, received in the same container is a segment
of grossly distorted, unoriented probable renal vein (5.2 cm in length x up to
2.6 cm in diameter) with golden yellow/red, firm tumor bulging from both. -
resection margins. One end is marked by an undesignated suture (inked black)
and the opposing end is inked blue. Sectioning exhibits tumor focally invading
into the vein wall. Representative tissue is submitted to the tissue bank as
follows: T1 equals upper pole mass/hemorrhagic area; T2 equals upper pole mass
'golden yellow area; T3 equals upper pole mass fibrous area; T4 equals

DQUP'

u. -

Report Status: Final

 

 

 

Accession Number: ~:‘~
Type: Cytogenetics
CA8 E : ' ;_. .“____._:: ._. __

PATTuniI'P~ '
a. . 'BGA-CZ-5464

    

 

T1: 45,X,—Y,del(3)(Pl?3p2?3).t(3;15}(pl?3;q2?6)[Cp4}

KARYOTYPE:

T3: 45,X,—Y,del(3)(p1?3p2?3) T4: 45,XY{3]
NETAPHASES COUNTED: 10 ANALYZED: l0 SCORED: 0 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION:

Four different specimens from this tumor were received.

All metaphases from specimens labeled T1 and T3 contained the clonal
aberrations described above. Both specimens contain an identical interstitial
deletion of the short arm of chromosome 3, a characteristic finding in renal

cell carcinoma, clear cell type.

No metaphases were available from specimen labeled T2, therefore the
cytogenetic analysis could not be performed.

No cytogenetic aberrations were identified in metaphases analyzed from specimen
labeled T4. This normal result does not exclude a neoplastic proliferation.

COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the

standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
RCC

 

- trauma::eHAWN-ian-zm'rtnsr-. .

 

 

