 

Er? uum:asr77sae-rsr4-41cs-saEr-£r43157aAsas
TCGA-FU—ASYQ-DlA-PR Redacted
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII
Illlllll I|llllllll|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII llllll
||| IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Sex: ‘FWeEHS '

 

 

 
   
  

,
. Collected:
Received: '
Reported: . ..._N_._._-.__..._. .

DIAGNOSI
A. Right ovary and fallopian tube. excision: , ,
Surface serous adenoﬁbroma. | CD ’0 3

Additional cystic follicles.
Fallopian tube without signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality. Care! no m a 5 q MQMMS LC, ‘ ' No S
8. Left ovary and fallopian tube. excision: ) 30 7O {3

lnvoluting corpus luteum.
Cystic follicles.
Hemorrhagic corpus iuteum.

Fallopian tube without signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality. 5 ( k : WV " ’4 ’ N O S

. Radical hysterectomy:
Tumor Characteristics: c 5 3’ a 0 “(y _ I
. Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma. Z-
. Histologic grade: Well differentiated. Grade 1.
. Tumor site: Cervix. ' ﬂb
Tumorslze: 1 7x 1 7 cm.
. Stromal invasion: Tumor extends a depth of 0.8 cm into a 1.3 cm thick comical wall. as measured microscopically.
Lymphovascular space invasion. Focaily present.
Surgical Margin Status:

1. Vaginal mucosai margin: Negative.
2. Deep margin: Negative.

Lymph Node Statue:
See parts E through J.

Other:
1 . Endometriurn without evidence of malignancy.
2. Myometrlum without evidence of malignancy.
3. pTNM stage: pT1b1 NO (FIGO iB1).

0

@mpwmu

D. Vagina, biopsy;
Negative for malignancy.

E. Left common iiiac lymph nodes. excision:
Five lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

F. Left external iliac lymph nodes, excision:
Four lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease.

G. Left obturator lymph nodes. excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

H. Right aortidcommon iiiac lymph nodes, excision:
Three lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease.

i. Right external iliac lymph nodes. excision:
Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

J. Right obturator lymph nodes, excision:
Three lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease.

Electronic Signature

 

inmorSite
”PM

'rim

'1‘:

 

 

 

 

   

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: Cervical CA.
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiologic Findlngs:

SPEClMENS:

A. Right ovary and tube.

Left ovary and tube.

. Radical hysterectomy.

. Vagina.

Left common lilac.

Left external illac. .
. Let! obturator nodes.

. Right aortic/common lilac nodes.
i. Right external illec lymph nodes.
J. Right obturator node.

nmoop

IQ

   

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: .
A. First containerA is labeled . . I. right ovary tube. The specimen consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube. The ovary
measures 4 x 2 x 1 cm. The surface is gray-ian. There is white—tan exci'escences noted on the ovarian surface covering a 1.5 x 1 cm. surface area.
Sectioning there are cysts containing clear ﬂuid measuring up to 0.5 and reveals a corpus luteum measuring 0.5 an. and corpus alblcan measuring 0.2
cm. identiﬁed. The attached fallopian tube measures 4 cm. In length and 0.5 cm; in diameter. The surface is gray—tan to brownvtan. Through the center
there is a metal clip identified. Sectioning there is no mature lesions identified.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled is follows: sections from ovary to include the excrescences in total in
blocks 1-5; representative fallopian tube in block 6.

B. The second container 9 is labeled . . , elt ovary and tube the speciﬁer! consists of an every with attached fallopian tube. The ovary
measures 3.5 x 3 x 1 .5 cm. The surface is gray-tan to brown-tan. Sectioning there are multiple cysts containing clear serous fluid measuring up to 0.6
cm. as well as cysts containing hemorrhagic materiel measuring 1.5 cm. There are corpus Iutei measuring up to 0.5 cm. The fallopian tube measures 3
cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The surface is gray-tan to brown—tan. There is a metal clip identiﬁed within the segment 01 fallopian tube.

0n sectioning the fallopian tube reveals mature lesions identiﬁed within the lumen. There is a paratubal cyst identiﬁed measuring 3 cm. containing clear
ﬂuid.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled .. .I as follows: ovary in blocks 1 and 2; fallopian tube and paratubal cysts in
block 3. "
C. Third container C is labeled . idical hysterectomy. The specimen consists of a uterus with attached cowlx. The uterus measures

7 x 6.8 x 6 cm. and weighs 143 grams. The serosal surface of the uterus is gray-tan to brown tan with slight hemorrhage. The cervix measures 4 cm. in
length and 5 cm. in diameter. There is a rim of vaginal mucosa that is gray-tan to pink-tan. The ectocervical mucosa is gray-tan to brown—tan with
hemorrhage. This margin has been inked. Sectioning the endocervicel displays a brown ten nodular lesion measuring 1.7 x 1.7‘ cm. predominantly on
the anterior wall that on sectioning extends into the underlying cervical wall approximately 1.2 cm. deep and is 1.5 cm. from the inked margin. it is 2.5
cm. from the vaginal margin. The endometrial cavity measures 5 cm. in length and 4 cm. from comu to cornu. The lining measures 0.1 cm.. light tan
smooth glistening with focal hemorrhage. There is no lesion identiﬁed. The myornetrium measures up to 2.8 cm. in greatest dimension. is gray-tan
trabecular. A lesion is not identiﬁed.

Received with the specimen are three cassettes. one green. one yellow. one blue labeled

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled : s: shaved sections through the vaginal cuff margin from 12 to
3:00 in block 1: 3 to 6:00 In block 2; 6 to 9:00 in block 3'. 9 to 12:00 in block 4: sections from cervix from 12 to 3:00 to include the nodule in blocks 5 and
6: sections from 3 to 6:00 in blocks 8 and 9; 6 to 9:00 in blocks 10 and 11: sections from 9 to 12:00 includes nodule in blocks 12-14; lelt parametrium in
bleak 1 5; right parametnum in block 16: right anterior in block 17; right posterior in block 18.

D. The fourth container D is labeled l vagina. The specimen consists nf a ninrg 0r gray-brown soft gigsua measuring 0,9 x 05 x 0.2
cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in a single cassette

E. The fifth container E is labeled with the patient . . ift common iliac. The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose tissue
measurino 3.5 x 2.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals ﬁve probable lymph nodes, 0.5 to 2.5 cm. All of the lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes
labeled . l as follows: two probable nodes in block 1; two probable nodes in block 2; one probable node bisected in block 3 and 4.

F. The sixth container F is labeled . . eh external lilac. The specimen consists. of a portion of flbroadipose tissue measuring 7 x 5.5 x 2
cm. Sectioning reveals four probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.8 to 2.6 an. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled
as follows: one probable node bisected in block 1; one probable node bissded in block 2; one probable node bisected in block 3; one

 

 

M.

 

 

 

probable node sectioned in blocks 4-6.

G. The seventh container G is labeled with the patient name . i, left obturator nodes. The specimen consistse of a portion of
ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 5 x 4.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning reveals two probable lymph nodes. 0.5 and 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes
are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled ' as follows: one probable node in block 1; one probable node bisected in blocks 2-3.

H. The eighth container H is labeled the patient . right aortic and commOn iliac nodes. The specimen consists of a portion of
ﬁbroadipose tissue that measures 3.5 x 3 x 1 cm. Sectioning r‘eveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.7 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes
are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: one probable node in block 1; one probable node bisected in blocks 2 and 3.

I. The ninth container l is labeled the palient name right external lilac lymph nodes. The specimen consists of a portion of
ﬁbroadipose tissue, 7 x 6.5 x 2 cm. Sectioning reveals seven possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.4 up to 2.5 cm. .
Representative sections are submitted In cassettes labeled 1 as follows; two probable nodes in block 1; two probable nodes in block 2:
one probable node in block three: one probable node sectioned in blocks 4 and 5; one probable node sectioned in blocks 6 and 7.

J. The tenth container J is labeled with the patient. i right obturator node and consists of a portion of ﬁbroadlpose tissue that measures
5 x 4.5 x 2 cm. Sectioning reveals three probable lymph nodes that measure from n 5 to 2.5 cm. Sectioning reveals three possible lymph nodes. 05 to
1 7 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassettes labeled . .- as follows: one probable node in block 1; one probable node
sectioned in block: 2 and 3; one probable node trlsected in blocks 44-).

up...

 

 

