Surgical Pathology Report

 

CLINICAL HISTORY

experienced a seizure — and on MRI has a

hemorrhagic lesion in the right frontal lobe, non~enhanoing on previous CT
scan. There is associated vasogenic edema and some aubfalcine herniation.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES

Right frontal brain mass

“oeration/Specimen: A; Brain, Right frontal lesion, excision biopsy
: Brain, right frontal, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A, B. Brain, right frontal, excision:

1. Glioblastoma, with recent hemorrhage.
2. MIBHl proliferation index: 60%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The specimens are fragments of cerebrum that are infiltrated and extensively
effaced by a glial neoplastic proliferation that has proclivity for the white
matter. The neoplastic cells are small, elongated naked nuclei. There is
brisk mitotic activity with a very high proliferation index of about 60%.
There is prominent microvascular cellular proliferation and zones of tumor
necrosis, some with pseudopalisading. Within the tumor and adjacent brain
tissue there is recent hemorrhage.

The morphology and immunophenotype are characteristic of a glioblastoma that
has undergone recent bleeding. '

 

.OCEDURES/ADDENDA

MGMT Promo '

 

 

 

Interpretation

EGATIVE: No evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments .
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT promoter
have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents. Assessment of
MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA followed
by real—time PCR amplification {MethyLight) of methylated and unmethylated DNA
sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was develo ed and its performance
characteristics determined by the ” laboratory as
required by CLIA '- regulations. as no can c eared or approved for

specific uses by the 0.3. Food and Drug Administration {FDA}. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted only in
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

    

n
POSITIVE - EGFRVIII mutation is detected

Results—Comments

TEST DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular target
in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III
(EGFRVIII) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR that is
commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRVIII as defining prognostically distinct
subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRvIII has been
shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the tumor
suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The cDNA is
then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR products
are detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this assay has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant calls in 100 normal cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This ' erformance
characteristics determined by the Pathology
laboratory as required by CLIA ' 3 no een cleared or

approved for specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

suits are provided for informational purposes only, and should be
interpreted only in the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic
criteria.

 

 

Page 2

 

 

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION

A. .
Brain, Right frontal lesion, excision biopsy, touch prep and smears:

Malignant neo 1 sm ' /W glioblastoma). Touch preparation smears
performed at Wand results reported to the Physician of

Record. -

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.
SPECIMEN: Right frontal brain mass

FIXATIVE: None

GENERAL: A 3.0 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm aggregate of multiple irregularWo
gray tan fragments of brain tissue. Preps and smears made by

SECTIONS: A1»3 all submitted.

9.
PECIMEN: Right frontal tumor
EIXATIVE: Formalin
GENERAL: A 7 cm irregular fragment of gray white tan brain tissue. A 1-2 mm
tan fragment is submitted.
SECTIONS: Blulargest fragment bisected.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates a heavy gliofibrillary background
within the glial neoplastic proliferation. A majority of neoplastic cells
over express the p53 protein. The CD163 depicts frequent activated microglia
around and within the neoplastic cells. With the MlB—l there is a
proliferation index of about 60% throughout the tumor.

ICD-9(s):

 

L‘isto Data

rt A: Brain Ri ' ' ' '

H/E x 1 l

 

Page 3

 

  

TPS H/E x l

C0163 Vector x l
GFR vIII—curls x 1

mGFAP—DA x l

H/E x l

MGMT—curls x 1

MIBlmDA X l

PSBDO? x 1

H/E X l

H/E x l

*** End of Report ***

 

WNNMMNMNH

1

ﬁlﬂicﬂ! Block W Comment

   

 

Page 4

 

