SURGICAL PATHOLOGY

Case Number : -

Diagnosis:

FSA: Pharyngeal mucosal margin, left, biopsy

— Squamous mucosa and submucosal lymphoid tissue
— No dysplasia or malignancy identified

FSB: Pharyngeal mucosal margin, right, biopsy

— Squamous mucosa with submucosal chronic inflammation
— No dysplasia or malignancy identified

FSC: Inferior margin, biopsy

— Squamous mucosa with submucosal chronic inflammation
— No dysplasia or malignancy identified

D: Right cervical lymph node, Levels 2 and 5, regional
dissection

— 18 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/18)

E: Right cervical lymph node, Level 3, regional dissection
— 15 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/15)

F: Right cervical lymph node, Level 4, regional dissection
— 11 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/11)

G: Left cervical lymph node, Level 3, regional dissection
— 7 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/7)

H: Left cervical lymph node, Level 4, regional dissection
— 12 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/12)

I: Left cervical lymph node, Levels 2 and 5, regional dissection
— 12 lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma identified (0/12)

J: Larynx, laryngectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
Tumor size: 4.1 x 3.2 x 2.5 cm by gross measurement

Tumor extent: Invasive carcinoma involves the bilateral
supraglottis

including the bilateral false cords and anterior commissure. No
involvement of

ventricle or true cord is identified. The tumor involves the
pre— and

paraepiglottic spaces, the epiglottis and extends into the base
of the tongue.

No involvement of thyroid cartilage or hyoid bone is identified.

Presence/absence of CIS: Present

Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: Not
identified

Presence/absence of angiolymphatic perineural invasion: Not
identified

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Negative but close at
right

lateral soft tissue margin (<1 mm) (J12) and 1.5 mm from left
lateral soft

tissue margin (J13). Invasive carcinoma is 1 mm from the
posterior margin, and

9 mm from anterior margin.

Lymph nodes: Five lymph nodes with no metastatic carcinoma
identified
in this specimen (0/5). See also previous specimens D—I

Size of largest nodal metastasis (greatest dimension): N/A
Presence/absence of extranodal extension: N/A

Other significant findings: Carcinoma in situ margins are also
negative

(closest is 5 mm to left). Moderate dysplasia of right tongue
mucosa. Focal

lingular thyroid tissue. A small amount of thyroid gland is
present anterior to thyroid cartilage.

AJCC Staging:
pT3
pNO
pr

This staging information is based on information available at
the time of this report, and is subject to change pending
clinical review and additional information.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

An in ative consultation is requested by Dr. on -
from

FSA1: Pharyngeal mucosal margin, left, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSBl: Pharyngeal mucosal margin, right, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSC1: Inferior margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:, MD

— with laryngeal cancer.

Gross Description:

Received are ten appropriately labeled containers. Containers A—
C are received

fresh for frozen section.

Container A holds a 4.0 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment totally
submitted as FSA1,

Container B holds a 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment totally
submitted as FSB1,

Container C holds a 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm red/tan soft tissue
totall bmitted as
FSC1,

Container D is additionally labeled "right cervical node, Level
2 and 5." It

holds an aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.1
x 3.2 x 1.5 cm.

The tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates and 13 lymph
node candidates

are found ranging in size from 0.4 to 2.1 cm in diameter.

Block summary:

D1 — four lymph node candidates

D2 — four lymph node candidates

D3 — three lymph node candidates

D4 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
D5,D6 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

Container E is additionally labeled "right cervical node Level
3." It holds an

aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.2 x
1.5 cm. The

tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates and sixteen lymph
node candidates

are found ranging in size from 0.4 to 2.3 cm in diameter.

Block summary:

E1 — seven lymph node candidates

E2 — three lymph node candidates

E3 — four lymph node candidates

E4 — one lymph node candidate

E5 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

Container F is additionally labeled "right cervical node Level
4." It holds a

yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue aggregate measuring 5.2 x 4.1 x 0.8
cm. The tissue

is dissected for lymph node candidates and twelve lymph node
candidates are

found ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.8 cm in diameter.

Block summary:

F1 — five lymph node candidates
F2 — four lymph node candidates
F3 — two lymph node candidates
F4 — one lymph node candidate

Container G is additionally labeled "left cervical node, Level
3." It holds an

aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.8 x 4.6 x
1.2 cm. The

tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates. Seven lymph node
candidates are

found ranging in size from 0.4 to 2.6 cm in diameter.

Block summary:

G1 — three lymph node candidates

G2 — one lymph node candidate

G3 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
G4 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
G5 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

Container H is additionally labeled "left cervical node, Level
4." It holds an

aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.9 x 3.4 x
1.0 cm. The

tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates and nine lymph
node candidates are

found ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.6 cm in diameter.

Block summary:

H1 — four lymph node candidates
H2 — three lymph node candidate
H3 — one lymph node candidate
H4 one lymph node candidate

Container I is additionally labeled "left cervical lymph node,
Levels 2 and 5."

It holds an aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue measuring
4.7 x 4.0 x 1.0

cm. The tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates. Fourteen
lymph node

candidates are found ranging in size from 0.2 to 3.1 cm in
diameter.

Block summary:

I1 — eight lymph node candidates

I2 — three lymph node candidates

I3 — two lymph node candidates

I4,I5 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
Container J:

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: total laryngectomy with base of tongue and
anterior soft tissue

Size of specimen: The larynx measures 10.6 x 9.6 x 5.1 cm. The
base of tongue

mucosa measures 3.6 x 2.2 x 0.9 cm. The

anterior soft tissue measures 5.2 x 2.6 x 0.9 cm on the right
side.

Orientation of specimen: The right soft tissue is inked blue and
the left soft
tissue is inked in black.

Tumor description: The tumor is tan/white, fungating, firm and
ulcerated. It is

located in the supraglottic area bilaterally and involves

the right false cord, pre—epiglottic space and para—epiglottic
space.

Tumor size: 4.1 x 3.2 x 2.5 cm

Extent of tumor: The tumor is located bilaterally in the
supraglottic area and

involves the right false cord, the pre—epiglottic space

and the para—epiglottic space. The tumor also involves the
pyriform sinuses

and aryepiglottic folds and is extending up to

the epiglottis but does not involve the tip. The tumor does not
appear to

be grossly invading the thyroid

cartilage.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The tumor is 1.2 cm
from the tip of the

epiglottis, 4.1 cm from the tracheal ring margin, 0.3

cm from the right laryngeal mucosal margin, 0.8 cm from the left
laryngeal

mucosal margin, 0.6 cm from the blue inked

right soft tissue and tongue mucosal margin, and 0.3 cm from the
black

inked left soft tissue margin and tongue margin.

Description of remainder of tissue: The false cords on both the
right and left

are edematous. In addition, the true cord on the right is

also edematous.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: no

Lymph nodes: Three lymph nodes are found within the anterior
right soft tissue.
See remaining parts for additional lymph nodes.

Digital photograph taken: yes

Block Summary:

J1 — tracheal ring margin, en face

J2 — right mucosal margin, perpendicular

J3 — left mucosal margin, perpendicular

J4 — right epiglottis, base of tongue and anterior soft tissue

margin as

well as extension of pre—epiglottic space

J5,J6 — left epiglottis, base of tongue, anterior soft tissue
margin, and

extension of pre—epiglottic space

J7,J8 — right false cord, ventricle, true cord, and para—
epiglottic space

J9,J10 — left false cord, ventricle, true cord, and paraglottic
space

J11 — midline transglottic section including the anterior
commissure

J12 — right lateral soft tissue margin to the right of the
epiglottis

J13 — left lateral soft tissue margin just to the left of the
epiglottis

J14—J16 — right tongue mucosal margin, perpendicular

J17 — left tongue mucosal margin, perpendicular

J18 — right strap muscle margin, perpendicular

J19 — left strap muscle margin, perpendicular

J20 — right thyroid cricoid cartilage with mass, following decal

J21 — left thyroid/cricoid cartilage, following decal
J22 — right hyoid bone following decal

J23 — left hyoid bone following decal

J24 — three lymph node candidates

Light Microscopy:

Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.
Representative section of lymph node (G4) is negative for
cytokeratin. CD31 immunohistochemistry shows no definite
lymphovascular invasion (J6).

