UUID:4A29D95A-86DA-4A05-90F6-OBB45D2D0801
TCGA- HB- A3YV- 01A- PR

Redacted
“('11.)"(1)1)“HM)”“'"“"““'H.‘.'f.‘)))"'
lllllllllllllHlllllllllllIIIIIHIIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number:

IIII
||||
llll

   

Surgical Pathology Report

 
 
 

2mm:

 
 
  

Tumm

    

IEPAA
3 m
)ull/Synchmnaus

Addenda Present

 
   

:r'

Accession #:

Diagnosis:
A: Kidney, left, radical nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: High grade pleomorphic sarcoma,
see comment

Tumor grade (FNCLCC system): Grade 3
Tumor differentiation score: 3

Tumor necrosis score: 1

Mitotic count score: 3 (up to 21 mitoses in 10 high powered
fields)

Total score: 7 £ng pko'movphtc
$3243

Tumor size (greatest dimension): 14. cm 35%: CK$cF r—+n3 7 iv“

' < f; m
Tumor focality' Unifocal P! qum)

Pm—HéquDs “0415‘

Extent of tumor invasion (if present specify if macroscopic or “‘04;
microscopic): go

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: microscopic invasion
present

(focally on slides A15, A17, A19)

Renal sinus: Not involved

Major veins (renal vein or segmental branches, IVC): Not
involved

Ureter: Not involved

Venous (large vessel): Not involved

Lymphatic (small vessel): Present (slide A4)

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Gerota' s fascia (nephrectomy): within 1 mm of the blue inked
perinephric margin (slides A17 and A19), tumor also focally
extends to ink in

the area of disruption, see comment

Renal vein (nephrectomy): Negative for tumor

Ureter (nephrectomy): Negative for tumor

Adrenal gland: Involved by tumor through direct extension

Lymph nodes: Not resected

AJCC Staging (staged for a soft tissue sarcoma):
pT2b
pNx

This staging information is based on information available at
the time of this '
report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and
additional

information.

B: Soft tissue, superior medial margin, biopsy

- Benign fibroadipose tissue with hemorrhage, focal acute
inflammation, and

focal fat necrosis

— No malignancy identified

Comment:

The tumor is a high grade pleomorphic sarcoma involving the
upper pole of the

kidney. While the tumor appears mostly confined to the kidney,
the tumor focally

invades through the renal capsule to involve perinephric fat,
and is very close .

(within 1 mm) to the Gerota‘ s fascia/perinephric fat margin.
The tumor also

abuts the adrenal gland, and involves the medulla of the adrenal
gland through

direct extension. The superior medial aspect of the tumor was
partially

disrupted, and tumor focally extends to ink in the area of
disruption.

The differential diagnosis for this high grade sarcoma includes
dedifferentiated

liposarcoma and pleomorphic leiomyosarcoma. The tumor is
positive for desmin,

CD34, CD10, and vimentin, results which are non—specific and may
be seen in

either tumor type. There are focal abnormal cells within the
fatty tissue and

fibrous bands adjacent to the sarcoma (slides A17 and A19),
which raises the

possibility of dedifferentiated liposarcoma, but the majority of
the perinephric

fat does not appear abnormal. Smooth muscle actin and CD31
stains highlight

prominent blood and lymphatic vessels within the tumor, but do
not stain the

tumor cells. The tumor is negative for cytokeratins AEl/AEB, CK
8/18, and RCC

lending no support for a diagnosis of sarcomatoid renal cell
carcinoma. The

tumor is negative for 8100, synaptophysin, and chromogranin,
indicating that

the tumor is not of nerve or adrenal medullary origin. The tumor
is also

negative for calponin, c—kit, and HMB45, lending no support for
GIST or

angiomyolipoma. While primary renal sarcomas are rare,
leiomyosarcoma is the

most common primary renal sarcoma. Liposarcomas involving the
kidney most often

arise in the retroperitoneum and secondarily involve the kidney,
but primary

renal liposarcomas have been reported.

Referral testing for MDM2 gene amplification testing is being
requested and the

results will be reported in an addendum. MDMZ is amplified in
well-differentiated liposarcomas and some dedifferentiated
liposarcomas, and may

be helpful in determining if the sarcoma has an adipocytic
origin.

The case was discussed with Dr. on ' Drs. and
have reviewed the case and agree with the diagnosis of high
grade pleomorphic sarcoma.

'Clinical History:
—year-old with a left renal mass.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Specimen A:

Specimen fixation: Formalin
Type of specimen: Nephrectomy
Side of specimen: Left

Size and weight of specimen: 1,720 grams, 29 x 19 x 10 cm
overall with

a 15 x 9 x 9 cm kidney, 8 cm of attached ureter and abundant
attached

perinephric fat.

Orientation: The external surface is inked blue and there is a 6
cm full thickness defect exuding tumor tissue along the superior
medial aspect

of the specimen. The edges of this defect are marked with yellow
ink for

identification purposes.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: Adrenal gland is present (5.7
x 2.0 x 0.5
cm)

Tumor site: The tumor is present in the superior pole and
extends
medially and superiorly.

Tumor description: The tumor is a fleshy gray/tan friable mass
lining a dominant cyst. The edges of the cyst are focally fleshy
and more solid

appearing. The tumor has a markedly mucinous component.

Tumor size: 14 x 11 x 10 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: Absent

Confinement/non—confinement to the kidney: Indeterminate due to
the

disrupted nature of the superior medial aspect. The tumor
appears partially

encapsulated and well-demarcated from the perinephric fat and
adjacent renal

parenchyma of the inferior pole.

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Tumor grossly does not involve
Gerota' s fascia: Tumor grossly does not involve.

Renal vein: Tumor grossly does not involve.

Ureter: Tumor grossly does not involve.

Renal Sinus: Tumor grossly does not involve.

Pelvicaliceal: Tumor grossly does not involve.

Adrenal: Tumor grossly involves the medulla of the

adrenal. The adrenal cortex is a thin rim of orange parenchyma
and

unremarkable. Tumor grossly abuts the adrenal gland.

Other organs: N/A

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Within <O.1 cm of the blue inked
surgical

margin.

Renal vein: Negative

Renal artery: Focally encased at the hilum but negative.
Ureter: Negative

Description of kidney away from tumor: Gray/tan with a cortical
thickness of

0.8 cm.

Hilar lymph nodes: None identified.

Other significant findings: None.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor and normal
are given to

tissue procurement.

Digital picture: No

Block Summary:

A1 — Ureter and vascular margins of resection, en face
A2—A4 — Tumor involving adrenal

A5—A6 — Tumor and overlying inked surgical margin

A7 - Tumor around renal artery

A8 — Tumor and perinephric fat

A9 - Tumor and renal sinus

A10 — Normal kidney

A11 - Kidney and tumor interface

A12—A14 — Representative sections of tumor (A14 contains tumor
in

relationship to full thickness defect)

A15—A16 — Additional sections of tumor at yellow inked
superior/medial

defect

A17—A23 - Tumor expanding renal capsule

A24—A25 — Tumor and adrenal

A26§A27 - Tumor and blue ink

Container B is additionally labeled "superior medial margin" and
is an irregular

and unoriented 3.2 x 1.7 x 1.0 cm fragment of hemorrhagic fat,
serially

sectioned and entirely submitted in block Bl,

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
Addendum for specimen A:

Addendum Comment

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for MDM2 gene
amplification was
performed at ‘“
The FISH

results show an MDMZ amplification with an MDMZ/SE12 ratio of
2.71. Per their

protocol, MDM2/SE12 ratios greater than 2.0 are considered
amplified. While

FISH for MDM2 gene amplification is intended to differentiate
well-differentiated liposarcomas/atypical lipomatous tumors from
lipomas, gene

amplification in this tumor suggests that this tumor has
lipocytic

differentiation.

on the tumor tissue (slide A13).

