   

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number :

CGA— FZ-GBBD

Diagnosis:
A: "Pancreatic duct margin", biopsy
u Negative for carcinoma.

B: “Uncinate process”, biopsy
— Negative for carcinoma.

C: Pancreas/gallbladder/duodenum, pancreatiooduodenectomy

Tumor Histologic Type: adenocarcinoma involving the ampulla; see
comment

Histologic grade: well differentiated
Tumor size: 2.2 cm

Extent of invasion:

Peripancreatic soft tissues: involved by adenocarcinoma (C16)
Duodenum: negative for malignancy

Ampulla: involved by adenocarcinoma; see comment (C7)

Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified
Venous Invasion: Not identified
Perineural Invasion: Identified, extensive.

Margins:

Pancreatic neck: negative for malignancy

Bile duct: negative for malignancy; see comment

Posterior pancreatic surface (deep radial margin): negative for
malignancy.

Peripancreatic soft tissues: Margin negative for malignancy, but
tumor

extends into peripancreatic soft tissue.

Proximal margin: negative for malignancy

Distal margin: negative for malignancy

Regional lymph nodes: One of nine lymph nodes positive for
metastatic

adenocarcinoma (1/9), 1 mm in

greatest diameter.

 

Additional pathologic findings:

~ PaIN 3

— Small bowel with mild acute and chronic serositis in the
additional bowel

segment submitted. The serositis extends to the suture margin;
margins appear

histologically viable.

— Gallbladder with mild chronic cholecystitis and one lymph
node, negative for

malignancy (0/1).

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 le pr

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the

time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical
review and

additional information.

Comment:

This is a complex case. There is extensive adenocarcinoma, well
differentiated, throughout the pancreas and extending into the
peri—pancreatic soft tissues.

Additionally, the tumor appears to involve the common bile duct,
which shows evidence of high grade pancreatic intraepithelial
neoplasia (PaINHB), although the common bile duct margin is
negative for malignancy or dysplasia.

Additionally, the tumor involves the ampulla with very little,
if any, dysplasia of the surrounding duodenal epithelium. Dr.
has reviewed the slide of the ampullary involvement (C7) and
concurs that the adenocarcinoma involves the ampulla. Given the
extensive involvement of the rest of the pancreas, however,

we favor this tumor being a pancreatic adenocarcinoma involving
the ampulla, rather than a primary tumor of the ampulla itself.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
An intraoierative consultation was requested at —

FSAl: ”Pancreatic duct margin”, excision
— Pancreatic tissue with chronic inflammation, no carcinoma
identified.

FSBl: ”Uhcinate process", excision
— Pancreatic tissue with chronic inflammation and fibrosis; no
carcinoma identified.

 

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:

year—old male with a pancreatic mass. The patient also has a
two week history of jaundice, diarrhea, and 12 lb. weight loss.
A previous bile duct brushing showed no malignant cells.

Gross Description:
Received are three appropriately labeled containers.

Specimen A is additionally labeled "pancreatic duct”. The

specimen consists of
a red—tan soft tissue fragment that measures 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm,

and is
submitted entirely in FSAI, NTR.

Specimen B is additionally labeled "uncinate process”. The

specimen consists of
a red—tan soft tissue fragment that measures 1.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm,

and is
submitted entirely in F881, NTR.

Specimen C:
Specimen fixation: formalin
Specimen type: standard Whipple with gallbladder

Orientation: With ink: common bile duct = yellow, pancreatic
body margin 2

blue, pancreatic soft tissue 2 green, uncinate margin = black,
gastric margin =

orange, and distal duodenum : red.

Tumor location: head of pancreas

Gross appearance of tumor: Mass appears to be a white, firm,
poorly
circumscribed mass located adjacent to the common bile duct in

the head of the
pancreas.

Tumor dimensions: approximately 2.2 x 2.0 x 0.9 cm

 

Extent of invasion:

Confined/nonconfined to the pancreas: does appear to be
extending into

the peripancreatic fat

Involvement of the ampulla: not identified

Involvement of the duodenum: not identified

Involvement of the bile duct: not identified
Involvement of adjacent blood vessels: not identified

Duodenum (if applicable):
Gallbladder (if applicable): appears uninvolved grossly
Stomach (if applicable): uninvolved

Surgical margins:

Pancreas: pancreatic surgical margins appear negative body
margin

negative to 0.7 cm uncinate margin negative to 0.4 cm

Bile duct: appears negative to 0.9 cm

Proximal (small bowel or stomach) margin:

Distal (small bowel) margin: widely negative
Peripancreatic soft tissues: appears negative to 0.8 cm

Lymph nodes:

Other remarkable findings: A 1.5 cm length of prepyloric stomach
that

measures 3 cm in diameter is submitted and is unremarkable.
Duodenal section

measures approximately 26 cm x 3.5 cm and is lined with yellow—
tan, granular

mucosa that is otherwise unremarkable. Additionally a
gallbladder is submitted

that measures 7.0 x 4.5 cm with a cystic duct that measures 6.5
cm in length.

The external surface of this gallbladder is redwbrown and
mottled and smooth.

Wall thickness mea3ures 0.5 cm. Gallbladder mucosa is red—brown
and finely

trabeculated with mild cholesterolosis. Approximately 10 cc of
sludge is

identified within the lumen, however no stones are identified. A
free floating

piece of what appears to be small bowel was identified within
the container.

 

This measures 12 x 2.5 cm. One end of this fragment is stapled

while the
opposite end is sutured. The external surface is purple—gray and

smooth without

evidence of perforation or inflammation. Opening of the fragment
reveals

yellow—tan, finely granular mucosa with normal folding
architecture. No

abnormalities are identified.

Digital photograph taken: no

Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes tumor to tissue
procurement

Block Summary:

C1 A common bile duct margin

C2 u pancreatic body margin, en face

C3 — uncinate margin en face

C4 — representative sections of mass

C5 — mass to common bile duct

C6 — mass to uncinate

C7 ~ pancreas to ampulla

C8 « pancreatic soft tissue margin

C9 — proximal margin, en face

C10 — distal margin, en face

C11 ~ proximal cystic ducts with periductal lymph node and
representative

section of gallbladder

C12 — random bowel fragments, stapled margin

C13 H random bowel fragment, sutured margin

C14 — additional representative section of random bowel fragment
C15 — two peripancreatic lymph node candidates

C16 — mass to uncinate, perpendicular

C17 ~ mass to uncinate, perpendicular

C18 ~ additional mass across common bile duct

 

 

