UUID: GDSDBBBD- 111F- M77— 9611- 7F5A85AR5FenAac
TCGA- 3A-A917-91A- PR

i!iii?!"ELIII'L'J'IEJIE'Iiii'I'I'll'I.‘.'I‘i.'I'IfIi'II'I'I'Ii"'

 

ICE-b :3
Pathology Report
(WW, MIL/41%

Final Diagnosis 3‘5: "3

GALLBLADDER CHOLECYSTECT‘DMY: S415. ”W W

Gailbladder with chronic mplecystitis c, 25-. D
a. {YMPH None, HEPATIC ARTERY; BIOPSY? q: 5 4/; I

One iymph node with metastatic adenoc aminoma (1)1) ‘/ 9

C. BILRARY'STENTQREMQVALZ
Biiiary stenf gross diagnosis-any.

HEAD OF PANCREAS FQRTION OF DUODENUM AND 01“ TAL'STOMACH, STANDARD
PANCREATODUODENECTOMY:

Adenocarcinoma moderateiy diﬁerentiated. pancreatIc ductai origin

Perinauraiiarge-yessei and iymphatic invasion identified,

Carcinoma invades the duodenumkwmmon biie duct-.Ampulia and peﬁpancreatic tissue.

Adiacent pancreatic parencnyma mm panlN 3

Adenoc'aminama involves. I at 2T Eymphirioda {1127}

the attending pachclggiﬁt personally rwiawed all
skides anc ,{ c; matariaia and rendered the final. diagnaais. Electronically.
Sﬁgxzed Gui: by

Co mment

The-carcinoma appears tube of pancreatic origin based on the: presence of extensive pancreatic
intraepithelial neoplasia and the lack of Ampullary precursors The bulk of the: invasive carcinoma is
within ihe pancreas and secondarilyinvowea the Ampuila and duodenum

Deeper. Sections examined of lymph node blocks D31— D32 04‘! and 043-

Key Pathological Findings
Spécimen type:

D; Pancreas-Exocrine synoptic Data
SPECIMEN TYPE: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whippie resection), partial
pancreatectomy
TUMOR SITE:
4 Pancreatic'headv
TUMOR-SIZE: invasive;
175, cm _
‘0THERDRGANS RESECTED::‘_
‘OTHER ORGANSZRESECTED: ‘Gallbiaddér
"Du'odenum
‘Dismi Stomach
Ductal adenOcarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE: 2'32: Moderately differentiated

Duodenum

Bile duct
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): 9T3: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without
invoiuement of the ceiiac axis or the superior mesentetic artery

REGIONAL LYMF’H; NODES (pm: pN‘la: Metastasis In single regional lymph node
Number examined: 28

Number involved: 2
DISTANT MET ASTASIS {9M}: pMX: Cannot be assessed
MARGINS:
Margins tree of tumor
‘VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION {V}: *Presem
‘LYMPHATIC (SMALL VESSEL; INVASION (L): ‘Present
*PERINEURAL INVASION: *Absent
‘ADDmONAL PATHOLOGIO FINDINGS:
*Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (highest grade: PanlN 3 )
‘COMMENTISI; * Lymph node count includes the hepatic attery lymph node.

Specimenls) Received

A GALLBLADD ER

El HEPATIC ARTERY NUDE

C BILIARY STENT ( GRQSS ONLY 3
D WHEPPLE 4FS

Clinical History
AMWLLARV CANCER

Preoperative Diagnosis
Amwliary cancer.

Intraoperative Consultation

FSDI. PANCREATIC MARGIN:
Negative.

F502: COMMON BILE DUCT MARGIN:
Negative.

FSDB‘ FED-l: RETROPERITQNEAI. MARGIN (PERPENDICULARI:
Negative.

Cmment This frozen section diagnosisiresult was communicated to and acknowledged by Dr.
in

 

l,. MR, have performed the?in'tr'aope'rativeconsultatlon (st and issuedthe above-
diagnosis.-

Gross Description

A The specimen was received fresh In 4 container; Specimen A {a labeled “gallbladder“ The
specimen consists of a gallbladder which measures 8 It 4 it 3 mt The. aerooa covering the gallbladder
is pink-tan to dusky purple smooth and glistening No transitormal perforations are grossst identiﬁed;
The gallbladders contents consist of a moderate amount of dark green viscous bite. The mucosa of
the gallbladder Is elevated and grossly unremarkable- The cystic duct is patent to the flow of bile and
has a I} 3. cm in diameter lumen No lymph nodes are grossly identified attached to the gallbladder
neck; The gallbladder's wall is mildly edematous; averaging D 3 cm in thicknes'st No tissue was
submitted to the Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections of the specimen are
submittedin 2 cassettes A1 and A2.

B. Specimen B is labeled “hepatic artery node}: The specimen consists ol asingl‘egfroughty
ovoid rubbery potential lymph node measuring up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. No tiasue'was
submitted to the “Tissue Procurement Laboratory The I'vm ph node Is oenolly- sectioned and Is
submitted entirety in 2 cassettes 91 and 52..

C Specimen I: to labeled ’biiiary- stent gross only‘ The specimen consists of a blue plastic tube
which measures 13 0 cm in length and 0.- ‘7 cm in diameter. The ends. olthe tube reveal a patent
lumen which mono ores up to 0. .2 cm In diameter. No sticky materiol' Io identiﬁed on the surface of the
tube. The specimen to received for gross analysis only

D- ﬁpecimen U is labeled ‘Whippteﬂrozen section- on retroperitoneal margin, pancreatic margin,
bile duct The specimen consists of a pancreatic head {7 x‘ 4- 5r Z 5ch With attached duodenum

(IS I) cm in length and up to 4 5 cm in circumference at the level of distal resection margin} and distal
portion oi stomach (4 5 cm in length and up to it] 0 cm In circumference at the level oi stapled gastric
resection margin), The serene oi. the stomach is pink-tan smooth and glistening. while the polar
ourface‘otthe' duodenum is shaggy with a small amount of ﬁbroadeose; tissue attached There is also
a small amount of mental adipose tissue attached to the gastric wall The peripheral aspects oi the
pancreatic head are composed of a small amount of adipose tissue which is ranging from O t to I1 3
cm in thickness. Prior to sectioning, the speciﬁer: is inked as folloius:

Anterior aspect of the pancreatic head: Green.
Medial aspect {groove}; Red-
Stapled retroperltoneal margin. IChange.
The remainderot the posterior aspect of the pancreatic head Black- '
9amnchymat retraction margin: Black.-
Common bile duct margin: Blue;

on opening. the-duodenum reveais'an‘irregular, ill deﬁned, sessile, focal hemorrhagic.tunior’{l .S 'x 1
cm} which involves ampulla of Voter. 0n sectioning. the tumor measures up to 0.5 cm in depth and
appears to involve adjacent portion of pancreatic head. The tumor also appears to involve the distal
portion oi common bile duct and main pancreatic ‘duct. A 1.0 distal cm of the common bile duct. and
the-area of junction hemeen main pancreatic doct and common bile duct are partially obstructed by
the tumor. The portion. of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct“ are located distal to the
obstructed area dilated up to 1.3 cm In circumference- The dilated portion of the common bile duct
is D 5 cm from the closest retroperitoneol resection margin. The remaining parenctiymo of the
pancreatic head to pale yellow tabulated rubbery to firm with some areas of intralobular fibrosis within
parcnchyma surrounding dilated portion of common bile ddct. The portion of pancreatic parenchyma

 

adjacent to the parenchymal reeection margin is preset; unremarkabte. Several potentiai lymph nodes
are grossly ﬁdenttﬁed within ﬁbroadipoee tissue surrounding pancreatic head. The remaining mucosa
of the duodenum and stomach are grossly unremarkable. Representative sections at the specimen
are submitted to the Tissue Procurement toboratory. Representative sections of the specimen are
euhmitted for frozen section analysis and frozen section remnants are submitted in 4 cassettes as
toliows:

FSD’l: Pancreatic reelection margin. tangential section.

F392: Common- bite duct margin. tangentiat section.

F583, F504: Retropeﬁtoneat margin (perpendicutar cross sections} closest to the honor-
Ammonia! sections of the specimen are submitted in 39 cassettes, 05—1343 as follows:

95-06: Gastric resection margin, tangential section.

DY: Duodenal resection margin, tangential section.

DB: Ampulia of 1enter with adjacent arcs of iunction betwveen main pancreatic duct
anti common bite duct

339-512: The remainder of the tumor involv'mg ampulla of Voter with adjacent distal
portion of common bile duct.

moors: Additionai sections of the retroperitoneal margin in relation to the main
poncreauc do at

ore—D19: Additionat sections of the indurateo porenchyma of the pancreatic head
adjacent. to the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct.

028: Dilated portion of the common bile duct

{321: Additionoi section of the duodenum adjacent to the ampulla of Voter.

322-024: Additional sections at the pancreatic head adjacent to the common bile duct
and the main pancreatic duct

0:25—th The remainder of the ﬁbroadipose tissue, anterior aspect of the pancreatic
he no.

. DEB: the remainder of the ﬁbroadipoee tissue attached: to the medial aspect of the

pancreatic head.

029-030: The remainder of the ﬁbroodipooe tissue, superior aspect of the pancreatic
head.

833 {334: The remainder of the adipose tissue of of the retroperitoneei aspect with
potential lymph nodee.

9354336: A portion of less omental adipose tissue in it‘s entirety.

937-943: A oortion of greater ornattum with potential lymph nodes.

 

HiPM

Prior

Case
Reviewer Initials

 

 

