Operative Procedure:
Right VATS upper lobectomy

Specimen Received:

: LEvel 10 lymph node
R11 Lymph node

R 12 Lymph node

R 13 Lymph node
Right upper lobe (FS)
Level 7 lymph node

2R lymph node

4R

FFQTWPQP>

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Lymph node, level 10, resection:
Four fragments of lymph node with calcified granulomas.
Negative for tumor (0/1 ).

B. Lymph node, R11, resection:
One lymph node negative for tumor (0/1)

C. Lymph node, R12, resection:
One lymph node with calcified granuloma.
Negative for tumor (0/ 1)

D. Lymph node, R13, resection:
One lymph node with calcified granuloma.
Negative for tumor (0/ 1)

E. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy [FSE]:

Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with a sarcomatoid component and
partial bronchioalveolar pattern, grade 3.

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, grade 3. (Diagnosis
supported by immunohistochemical stains
performed on prior case)
One lymph node negative for tumor (0/1)

Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

Please case Synoptic Report.

Synoptic Report

Specimen: Lobe of lung, right upper lobe
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: Right upper lobe
Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen
Tumor size: 3.5 cm (adenocarcinoma)

3 cm (squamous cell carcinoma)

Tumor focality: Separate tumor nodules in same lobe

Tumor histologic type: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with a
sarcomatoid component and partial bronchioalveolar pattern and poorly
differentiated squamous cell carcinoma

Tumor grade: Grade 3 (both tumors)
Visceral pleura invasion: Present (both tumors)
Tumor extension: Tumor invades through the visceral pleura (squamous cell

carcinoma)

Margins:
Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Parenchymal margin: Not applicable
Parietal pleural margin: Not applicable
Chest wall margin: Not applicable

If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 3 cm (both tumors)
Specify margin: Bronchial

Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present (squamous cell carcinoma)

Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: None known
Primary tumor (pT): pT2a (both tumors)
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO
Number examined: 10 (includes specimens A-D & F-H)
Number involved: 0
If lymph node(s) involved, specify involved nodal station(s): Not
applicable
Distant metastasis (pM): Not known

Additional pathologic findings: Respiratory bronchiolitis
One lymph node negative for tumor (0/1)

F. Lymph node, level 7, resection:
One lymph node with calcified granuloma.
Negative for tumor (0/ 1)

G. Lymph node, 2R, resection:
Three lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/3).
Some lymph nodes contain calcified granulomas.

H. Lymph node, 4R, resection:
One lymph node negative for malignancy (0/1).
Calcified granuloma.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were

performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

FSE: Right upper lobe:

FSE1: Smaller mass:
Adenocarcinoma with BAC features.

FSE2: Larger mass:
Poorly differentiated non small cell carcinoma.
F/S TAT: Not recorded.

Gross Description:
Received are eight formalin filled containers, each labeled with the patient's
name.

Part A is additionally labeled "level 10 lymph node" and is a specimen
consisting of multiple tan to brown irregular soft tissue fragments, ranging in
size from 0.3 to 0.7 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette A1. For
decalcification.

Part B is additionally labeled "R11 lymph node" and is a specimen consisting of
a single tan to dark brown apparent lymph node measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is submitted in toto in cassette B1. For decalcification.

Part C is additionally labeled "R12 lymph node" and is a specimen consisting of
a single yellow lobulated soft tissue fragment, measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette 0. For decalcification.

Part D is additionally labeled "R13 lymph node" and is a specimen consisting of
a single tan to brown apparent lymph node, measuring 1 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The
specimen is submitted entirely in cassette D1 for decalcification.

Part E is additionally labeled "right upper lobe" and is a specimen consisting

of two cassettes labeled FSE1 and FSE2. Within cassette FSE1 is a fragment of
tan to brown apparent lung parenchyma measuring 2.2 x 1.9 x 0.2 cm. The specimen
is resubmitted in cassette E1 for permanent sections. Within cassette FSE2 is a
single tan to brown fragment of apparent lung measuring 2.7 x 1.3 x 0.2 cm. The
specimen is resubmitted in cassette E2 for permanent sectioning. Also within the
container is a purple to dark brown apparent right upper lobe measuring 17.5 x

10 x 5.5 cm. The specimen has been previously incised at the time of frozen
sectioning. The bronchial margin and vascular margins are stapled shut. The
pleural surface of the lung is smooth and glistening. Serial sectioning of the

lung reveals two to three tan-white infiltrative appearing lesions. The mass

that was designated as the smaller lesion (FSE1) at the time of frozen

sectioning, measures 3.5 x 2.5 x 2.1 cm. lt abuts the pleural surface and comes

to within 2 cm of the bronchial and vascular margins. The mass that was
designated as the larger lesion at the time of frozen sectioning (FSE2),

measures 2.5 x 3 x 2 cm. This mass abuts the pleural surface and comes to within
3 cm of the bronchial and vascular margins. Therefore the mass that was

initially described as the smaller lesion at the time of frozen sectioning was
found to be the larger of the two masses. The uninvolved parenchyma is red and
spongy with no discrete lesions.

The specimen is submitted as follows:
E3 bronchial margin;
E4 vascular margin;
E5-7 3.5 cm mass to nearest pleural surface;
E8 3.5 cm mass to adjacent grossly normal lung;
E9-11 2,5 cm mass to nearest pleural surface;
E12 2.5 cm mass to adjacent grossly normal lung;
E13 representative section of uninvolved lung;
E14 multiple possible lymph nodes in toto.

Part F is additionally labeled "level 7 lymph node" and is a specimen consisting
of three tan to brown firm fragments of tissue, ranging in size from 0.3 to 0.7
cm. The specimen is submitted in entirely in cassette F1 for decalcification.

Part G additionally labeled "2R lymph node" and is a specimen consisting of
three fragments of purple to white irregular soft tissue, ranging in size from
0.4 to 2.2 cm.

The specimen is submitted as follows:
G1 two smaller fragments submitted in toto;
G2 the larger fragment bisected.

Part H is additionally labeled "4R" and is a specimen consisting of a single tan
to white soft tissue fragment that grossly resembles a lymph node and measures
0.7 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette H1.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: — —Gender= M

