 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Ovary, right, oophorectomy: Serous carcinoma, high grade, 7 cm in diameter; see
comment.

B. Ovary, ieft, oophorectomy: Serous carcinoma, high-grade, 8 cm in diameter; see
comment.

C. Uterus, fallopian tubes, cervix, sigmoid coion, radical hysterectomy and
sigmoidectomy:

— Endometrium: Weakly proliferative with no significant pathologic abnormality.

- Myometrium: Adenomyosis.

— Serosa: Serous carcinoma, metastatic.

— Fallopian tubes:

1. Serous carcinoma, metastatic to serosa and lumen of right fallopian

tube.

2. Serous carcinoma, metastatic to serosa of left fall0pian tube.

- Cervix: No significant pathologic abnormality.

- Sigmoid colon: Serous carcinoma metastatic to colon, involving submucosa,
muscularis propria, and subserosa.

D. Lymph node, left pelvic, dissection: Serous carcinoma metastatic to nine of twelve
regional lymph nodes (9/12) and to extranodal soft tissue.

E. Mesentery, tumor nodule, excision: Serous carcinoma, metastatic to mesentery.
Page 1 of5

F. Omentum, omentectomy: Serous carcinoma, metastatic to omentum.

G. Appendix, appendectomy: Serous carcinoma metastatic to appendix and
mesoappendix.

H. Lymph node, right peri—aortic, dissection: Serous carcinoma metastatic to two of
ten regional lymph nodes (2/10) and to extranodal soft tissue.

I. Lymph node, left pert—aortic, dissection: Serous carcinoma metastatic to one
regional iymph node (1/1).
J. Lymph node, right pelvic, dissection:

1. Serous carcinoma, metastatic to two of seven regional lymph nodes (2/7) and

to extranodal fibroadipose tissue.

K. Coion, tumor noduie, excision: Serous carcinoma metastatic to fibroconnective
ﬁssue.

L. Bowel fat, excision: Serous carcinoma metastatic to fibroadipose tissue.

M. Hepato—renal tumor nodule, excision: Serous carcinoma metastatic to soft tissue.
N. Coion, tumor implant, excision: Two of two regional lymph nodes with no evidence
of metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

0. Mesentery, tumor implant, excision: Serous carcinoma, metastatic to soft tissue.
P. Anastomosis donut, excision: No significant pathologic abnormality.

Q. Peritoneal nodule, excision:

.erous carcinoma, metastatic to soft tissue.

COMMENT:

 

 

Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Serous carcinoma.

. Grade of tumor: High Grade.

. Location of tumor: bilateral ovaries, bilateral fallopian tubes, uterus, parametria, sigmoid colon

. Diameter of tumor: 8 cm left ovary; 7 cm right ovary.

. Appearance of surface of ovary: Infiltrated by tumor.

. Condition of capsule: Focally disrupted.

. Appearance of cut surface: Solid with focal multilocular cysts.

. Color of solid areas: Red~white.

. Necrosis: Present.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Present/present (A4).

11. Sites of metastases in pelvis: Uterus, fallopian tubes, sigmoid colon, peritoneum.

12. Pelvic lymph nodes: Eleven of nineteen regional lymph nodes with metastatic serous carcinoma
(11/19).

13. Sites of metastases in abdomen: Omentum, appendix.

14. Para-aortic lymph nodes: Three of eleven regional lymph nodes with metastatic serous carcinoma
(3/11).

Page 2 of 5

I15. Peritoneal cytology: Positive. Cytoiogy accession numbe-

16. Other significant findings: N/A.
17. FIGO stage: IIIC.

18. TNM stage: pT3cN1MX.
Specimen(s) Received

A:Right Ovary (FS)

B:Left Ovary (FS)

C:Uterus, fallopian tubes, cervix, and sigmoid colon
):Left pelvic Lymph node
E:Tumor nodule mesentary
F:Omentum

G:Appendix

H:Right peri-aortic Lymph node
I:Left peri—aortic Lymph node
J:Right pelvic Lymph node

K:Colon tumor nodule

L:Bowe| fat

M:Hepato—renal tumor nodule
N:Colon tumor implant
OzMesentary tumor implant
PzAnastamosis donuts
Q:Peritoneal nodule
Intraoperative Diagnosis

FS ‘ ection: High~grade carcinoma, consistent with ovarian serous carcinoma. (Dr.

Mtion: High-grade carcinoma, consistent with ovarian serous carcinoma. (Dr.

Clinical Histor
-with ovarian cancer.

The patient is a
Gross Descrip
The specimen is received in seventeen parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
nlmeer. Parts A and B are received fresh. Parts C—Q are received in formalin.

irt A is additionally labeled "1 right ovary F/S." It consists of a 57.1 g, 7.0 x 5.1 x 4.0 cm tan ovary. The
capsule surface is studded by tumor nodules, which on cut surface appear connected to the main
underlying ovarian tumor. The tumor on cut surface is mostly solid with focal areas with multilocular

RDCDNONU‘l-BUJN

 

 
  

  

cys s. rozen section FSl was obtained; the remnant of this frozen section is submitted in cassette A1.
Additional sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette A2: Cystic area.

Cassette A3: Solid areas with and without capsule.

Cassette A4: Blood—filled cyst and larger clear fluid—filled cyst.

Cassette A5: Solid portion.

Part B is additionally labeled "2 L ovarian cyst." It consists of a 105 g, 8.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm tan ovary. The
capsule is studded with tumor nodules, which on cut surface appear connected to the main underlying
ovarian tumor. The tumor on cut surface is mostly solid with focal areas with multilocular cysts. The

specimen is photographed. Frozen section F82 was obtained; the remnant of this frozen section is
Page 3 of 5

submitted as 81. Additional sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette B2:
Cassette B3:
Cassette B4:

Blood~filled cystic portion.
Cystic area.
Solid area.

Cassette BS: Solid—cystic portion with papillary exorescences.

Cassette B6: Blood—filled cystic portion with capsule inked black.

Part C, additionally labeled "uterus, fallopian tubes, cervix, sigmoid colon,“ consists of a uterus, bilateral
fallopian tubes, bilateral broad ligaments, cervix, portion of vaginal cuff and segment of the sigmoid colon
weighing 251 gm. The uterus measures 7.6 cm from fundus to cervix, 4.6 cm from cornu to cornu, 3.2 cm
from anterior to posterior, and is oriented by the posterior sigmoid colon, as well as the peritoneal
reflections. The superior serosal surface of the uterus is smooth, while the anterior, p05terior and left and
right sides are remarkable for diffuse adhesions and tumor implants. The uterine cavity sounds to 7.4 cm.

The vaginal cuff measures an average of 1.0 cm, anteriorly and posteriorly, and 0.3 cm on the right and

left

sides. The cervix measures 2.4 cm in length and 3.4 cm in width. The left and right parametrial tissues
measure 4.2 x 4.2 x 0.6 cm and 4.0 x 4.6 x 1.1 cm, respectively. The anterior uterine surface is

remarkable

for a thick, firm, pale pink flap of connective tissue at the uterocervical junction that extends superiorly.
The left fallopian tube measures 5.2 cm in length x 1.1 x 0.6 cm, and is remarkable for numerous firm,

pale

white tumor implants on its serosal surface. The right fallopian tube measures 5.5 cm in length x 0.6 x 0.6
cm and is also remarkable for multiple firm, pale white tumor implants. The sigmoid colon measures 6.3
cm in length and shows an average luminal diameter of 1.1 cm. The surrounding adipose tissue is
remarkable for adhesions to the posterior uterus and innumerable white, firm tumor implants ranging

from

0.3 to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is inked as follows: proximal and distal sigmoid colon
margins black, vaginal cuff margin green, anterior uterus yellow, and posterior uterus blue.
Representative

sections of the specimen are submitted as follows:

Cassette C1:
Cassette C2:
Cassette C3:
Cassette C4:
Cassette C5:
Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:

Proximal sigmoid margin, perpendicular.

Distal sigmoid margin, perpendicular.

Anterior cervix.

Posterior cervix.

Anterior endometrium, myometrium and serosa.
Posterior endometrium, myometrium and serosa.
Right fallopian tube and adjacent tumor implants.
Left fallopian tube and adjacent tumor implants.

Cassettes C9-C10: Parametrial tissue with tumor, in relation to uterus, and normal sigmoid colon

mucosa.

Part D, additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node," consists of multiple fragments of yellow-gold
broadipose tissue with intermixed lymph nodes and a sheet of pink-brown peritoneal tissue studded with

multiple firm, white tumors with greatest dimensions ranging from 0.1 to 0.6 cm. In aggregate, the

Specimen measures 4.5 x 4.2 x 1.3 cm. The lymph nodes are tan—white, firm and range from 0.5 to 1.8

 

 

cm
in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette D1: Two candidate lymph nodes, bisected.

Cassette D2: Candidate lymph nodes, not bisected.

Cassettes D3-D4: Peritoneum with tumor implants.

Part E, additionally labeled "tumor nodule mesentery," consists of a firm, ovoid, tan-white fragment of
tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.1 x 0.8 cm. The surface is highly variegated and shows focal areas of yellow—gold
fibroadipose tissue. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette E1.

Part F, additionally labeled "6 - omentum," consists of one white—yellow-brown, irregular, unoriented,
fibrofatty tissue fragment with a grossly apparent white-yellow, glistening tumor that encompasses
approximately 30% of the specimen. The specimen measures 22.0 x 15.0 x 6.0 cm. The specimen is
serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in cassettes F1-F2.

Part G, additionally labeled "appendix,“ consists of one vermiform appendix measuring 5.1 x 1.4 x 0.9 cm.
The appendix is tan-white, not disrupted, and demonstrates firm, white tumor nodules on the serosal
surface and within the periappendiceal fat. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Page 4 of5

Cassette 61: Tip of appendix.
Cassette (32: Serial sections of proximal, middle and distal appendix.

Part l-l, additionally labeled "right peri-aortic lymph node," consists of multiple fragments of yellow—gold
fibroadipose tissue and tan-pink, firm lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes l-ll-l-l2.

Part I, additionally labeled "left pen—aortic lymph node,” c0nsists of one tan—white, fleshy lymph node
measuring 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in cassette 11.

Part J, additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node," consists of and multiple fragments of yellow-gold
fibroadipose tissue and multiple tan—pink, fleshy and firm lymph nodes measuring 4.5 x 2.0 x 1.1 cm in
aggregate. The lymph nodes range from 0.6 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely
submitted in cassettes 31—32.

Part K, additionally labeled "colon tumor nodule," consists of four firm, tan~white fragments of soft tissue
with tightly adherent yellow—gold adipose tissue, measuring 3.4 x 3.1 x 0.9 cm in aggregate. The entire
specimen is submitted as follows:

Cassette K1: Two, bisected fragments.

Cassette K2: Two fragments, one bisected.

Part L, additionally labeled "bowel fat," consists of five, yellow-gold fragments of irregularly shaped
adipose
tissue measuring 3.6 x 2.8 x 1.2 cm. The external surfaces of some fragments show firm, white tumor
nodules ranging from 0.2 to 0.4 cm in greatest dimension. The fragments are bisected and entirely
submitted in cassettes L1—L2.

Part M, additionally labeled "hepatorenal tumor nodule," consists of multiple fragments of purple-black
peritoneal tissue and firm, white, multinodular tumor implants ranging from 0.2 to 1.7 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes M1—M2.

Part N, additionally labeled "colon tumor implant," consists of multiple fragments of yellow—gold
fibroadipose tissue and firm, white, irregularly shaped lymphoid tissue measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.2 cm in
aggregate. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes N1—N2.

Part 0, additionally labeled ”mesentery tumor implant," consists of one tan-yellow, irregularly shaped
fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette 01.
Part P, additionally labeled "anastomosis donut, " consists of one tan—white, closed donut measuring 2.2 x
1.4 x 0.8 cm, and an open, tan—brown colon donut measuring 2.3 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. No discrete masses or
lesions are seen on either fragment. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes P1-P2.

Part Q, additionally labeled "peritoneal nodule," consists of multiple yellow-gold fragments of fibroadipose
tissue with numerous firm, white tumor nodules ranging from 0.1 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassette Q1.

liagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending
pathologist followin review of all at ‘

   

   

 

