UUID:A2A74023-0861-4C39-BSDl-FC97AA980C5E
TCGA- V4- -A95C- 0111- PR

REdacted
lllllllIlllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllll
IllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllll nu ll ""“'"”'"

Date of surgery :

H I ll llllll Illl
Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllilllllllllliiii

Left eye enucleation

Macroscopy

Enucleation specimen measuring 24 mm in diameter, with a segment of optic nerve of 8 mm
long. At the section presence of a black tumor measuring 9 mm main line. Samples have been
made for cryopreservation and cytogenetic studies. The specimen has been then included

entirely after ﬁxation. ,
Microscopy WI‘WA ML spavdb w Mim-

The lesion seen macroscopically has the morphological characteristics of a choroidal
melanoma. This tumor proliferation is made of fusiforrn cells (95%) and of localized nest of
epithelioid cells (<5%). These cells contain atypical nucleolated nuclei, with cytoplasm
loaded with melanin pigment. They are organized in cluster or crisscrossing bundles. Mitotic
ﬁgures are present (8 mitosis by 10 ﬁelds at the 400 magniﬁcation).the lesion measures 9 mm
of main line. It is localized at the posterior pole, at the level of the emergence of the optic
nerve, and inﬁltrates the internal third of the sclera without extra sclera extension. The ciliary
processes, the optic foramen and the optic nerve on his entire course including the cut end, the
meningeal sheaths and the extrasclérale tissues are free of tumor.

Conclusion
Choroidal melanoma with mostly fusiform cells
Size of the tumor: 9 mm main line
Infiltration of the internal third of the sclera without extrascléral extension
The meningeal sheaths and the extrasclérale tissue are free of tumor
1:33 ow .5
W/ k1ﬂ£7ﬂlbah¢ww,l 97’2me UQQ

N 9.7 72.) 5’
fig/Ea @ﬂwtemé

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i! e
TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

ingtrugﬁgns: The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis

documen tedon the in fife! pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Con troi Form compietedfor the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS): m MTSS identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: __ _,___
Completed By (Interviewerﬂame on Openﬂiiniea]: - “Compieted Date: _
imagnosis Information
"W Data Eiemeni: Entry Alternatives Working instructions
Patboiogicbiagnosis , <5%eeitheﬁ°idcells iii:iii?Sigiiﬁig‘iiﬁ‘éiﬁiiﬁé‘ii’fiéii3222313330?“

1 Provided on initial

this case is mixed, provide aid listed subtypes.
eathology Report ‘

95% spindle ceiis

 

Histologic features of

. 3’ to th nm E i fe cur-ass I cred rhe'I‘CGACase
3 61-90% spindle cells m e e ’ 008C 3 ea {m
2 the sample provided l
i
l

QualityControi Form compieted for this case.

 

for FCC—A, as reﬂected
a on the CQCF.

180% epithelioid cells

 

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

3 Provide the reason for

Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial

 

 

 

the discrepancy The section of the frozen sample used for sending 2 gathelogy ripondfer tins 252:5”:coﬁsffiegtﬁg’fnfé‘e
between the pathgiogy to TCGA corresponds to a section of the tumor ‘Mgnom 5e em an “‘9' ‘ age Qua. :32 “J m mm
; ”.390“ and the TCGA where the epithelioid part is predominant
1% Case Quality Centre} . .
5 Form. The percentages mentioned on the initial
§ Pathoiegy Report correspond to an average on the
i whoie embedded sections used for establish the
Fathoiogy Report.
: Name of T33 Reviewing Provide the name of the pathoiogistwho reviewed this case
4 Pathoiogist or f“: TCCL’“
Bierepository Director i

 

 

 

 

I acknowfedge that tire above information nrnw‘rlpd Iw mv institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathoiogést or Biorepository Director Date

f acknowledge that the aim we information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quaiity controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

iv‘rmcipal Investigator Signature Date

