UUID:993E18F7-4FD8-4867-8921-55182FE43FBA
TCGA-EM-A2CK-61A-PR Rﬁlrllﬁliliced

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

/¢A—0«3
Cmem‘l/Wr, 54ml“; mm!
ﬁve/3
swﬁwr ~05 0737 jut/1:76,

 

 

Specimenis) Received

1. ch: RIGHT JUGULAR NODE-STITCH MARKS APEX
2. Neckzright posterior triangle - stitch marks apex

3. level 5A lymph nodes right neck

4. left lower parathyroid- OS

5. total thyroidectomy stitch mark upper right pole

6. right lower parathyroid - QS

 

Diagnosis
1. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma, classical variant, with extranodal extension: Lymph
node (right jugular) biopsy
2. Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma, classical variant: Lymph nodes, 4/19 (right posterior
triangle) dissection
3. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 3 (right level 5A) dissection specimen
4. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Thymus
- (left lower neck) biopsy
5. Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant 2.3 cm, right, follicular variant; second 0.6 cm, right,
classical variant: Thyroid
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma: Lymph node, 1 of 2, isthmic
— Total thyroidectomy specimen
6. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right lower) biopsy

Synoptic Data

Clinical History: No radiation exposure
Procedure: Total thyroidectomy with right neck dissection
Received: Fresh
Specimen Integrity: intact
Specimen Size: Right lobes;
4.5 cm
2.8 cm

2.2 cm

Left lobe:
4 cm .
2.5 cm '
1.5 cm
isthmus +/- pyramidal lobe:
4.8 cm
1.6 cm
0.8 cm
Right neck dissection:
20.2 cm
7 cm
3.5 cm
Specimen Weight: 24.5 9
Tumor Focality: Multifocal, ipsilateral
Multifocal, midline (isthmus)
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR--------------
Tumor Laterality: », Right lobe];f
Tumor Size: *G'reatest dimension: 2.3cm
Additional dimension: 1.7 cm
Additional dimension: 1.5 cm
Histologic Type: Pa illary carcinoma, foilicularjﬂnt .2
F'ol icular'architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Not identified

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identified

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identified .

--------------- SECONDTUMOR----------------

Tumor Laterality: Right lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 0.6cm
Additional dimensions: 0.4 cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, classical (usual)

Classical (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 1mm

Tumor Capsule: None

Tumor Capsular invasion: Present, extent widely invasive

Lymph—Vascular invasion: Not identified

Perineural invasion: Not identified

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identified

TNM Descriptors: m (multiple primary tumors)

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm, but not more than 4 cm, limited
to thyroid

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1 b: Metastases to unilateral, bilateral or contraiaterai

cervial or superior medastinal lymph nodes
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 25
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 6
Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Present
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits
Other: additional 2 papillary microcarcinomas in the isthmus,
0.1 and 0.3 cm .

Ancillary Studies: Type: immunohistochemistry
Results: Dominant nodule - CK 19 positive, galectin negative,
HBME 1 focally positive; second dominant nodule CK 19
positive, galectin positive, HBME 1 positive; largest metastatic
lymph node - CK 19 positive, galectin positive, HBME 1
positive

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UlCC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Comment

The dominant nodule stains for CK19 and focally for HBME-1 but is negative for gaiactin-3. in
contrast, the second dominant nodule is strongly positive for CK19, galactin-3 and HBME-1,
similar to the pattern seen in the metastatic lymph node. This immunoproﬁle and the morphology
indicate that the metastasizing tumor is the second dominant nodule (widely invasive classical
variant papillary carcinoma, 0.6 cm, right).

Electronically
veriﬁed bv:

 

Gross Description
1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “right jugular node-stitch marks apex"

consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue and muscle oriented with a stitch marking the apex,
measuring 5.7 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. One lymph node is identiﬁed in
the area of the stitch; it measures 1.6 cm in diameter. it is solid to cystic on cut surface. The
specimen is submitted as follows:

1A,B lymph node sectioned in toto.

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “right posterior triangle-stitch marks
apex" consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures 10.5 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm oriented with a
stitch marking the apex, received in 10% buffered formalin. Multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed
measuring from 0.3 cm to 3.5 cm in diameter. The largest is partly cystic on cut surface. The
lymph nodes are submitted in toto from apex to opposite end as follows:

2A,B, multiple lymph nodes, each block

2C-F largest lymph node sectioned

26 multiple lymph nodes

2H two lymph nodes

2i one lymph node bisected

2J,K two lymph nodes each block

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as “level 5A lymph nodes, right neck”
consists of one piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures 3.5 x 2 x 1 cm received in 10%
buffered formalin. Three lymph nodes measure from 0.2-cm to 2.2 cm in diameter. The
specimen is submitted as follows:

3A one lymph node

3B,C one lymph node bisected each block.

4. The specimen labeled with the patient’s name and as "left lower parathyroid qs" consists of a
tiny piece of tissue that measures less than 0.1 cm in maximum dimension. it is frozen for
intraoperative consultation.

4A frozen section block resubmitted.

5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "total thyroidectomy. stitch marks right
upper pole" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a suture and weighs 24.5 g. The right
lobe measures 4.5 cm Si x 2.8 cm ML x 2.2 cm AP, the left lobe measures 4.0 cm Si x, 2.5 cm
ML x, 1.5 cm AP and the isthmus measures 4.8 cm Si x 1.6 cm ML x 0.8 cm AP. The external
surfaces have fibrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands and/or lymph nodes are identified
grossly. The external surface is painted with Silver nitrate. The right lobe contains two well
delineated nodules, one upper and one lower, that measure 0.6 cm Si x 0.4 cm ML x 0.4 cm AP
and 2.3 cm Sl x 1.7 cm ML x 1.5 cm AP respectively. The lower pole of the left lobe contains a
well delineated nodule that measures 0.3 cm SI x 0.4 cm ML x 0.4 cm AP. The remainder of the
thyroid tissue is grossly unremarkable. Two sections of right lobe nodule, one section of the left
lobe nodule and one piece of normal tissue are stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted as follows:

5A-L right lobe, superior to inferior

5M-Q isthmus

5R—Z left lobe, superior to inferior

6. The specimen labeled with the patient’s name and as "right lower parathyroid qs" consists of a
piece of tissue that measures 0.4 cm in maximum dimension. It is frozen for intraoperative
consultation.

6A frozen section block resubmitted

Quick Section Diagnosis
1. Left lower parathyroid: cellular parathyroid tissue with piece of thymic tissue.

Slide received .; reported {seen by Dr.
2. Right lower parathyroid: positive for parathyroid tissue.
Slide received ‘ .; reported '

 

