 

a

Criteria

 
 
 

glPM Dime-pan:
Prior Malignancy Hision
:ni/Fynlchmnnusl'nu - . .
:e in (circle):
Revueuerlnitials , '

0A)“

  

UUID:6164F9‘F-BMF-4435-A839-E1FEA6EFFDF3

muuiliﬁiiﬁiﬁﬁiﬁﬁl‘ﬁﬁilmlﬁmummu'l‘lﬁiililiuted
mumunimumuuumum
mmununmmnmmumnl'iii'i'ii'imi'i'mi'i'imm

[CA ~ 0 ’3
Coma/km! MMfm/‘iw M ””5 fféé/a
31,64: W li/IS 650. ‘7 M /0/2//u

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Right axillary sentinel lymph node, excision: Metastatic carcinoma involving one

lymph node(1/1).

B. Breast, right, mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma,4.8 cm, SBRgrade 3 and
high-grade intraductal carcinoma; see commen .

C. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: Seven lymph nodes negative for tumor,(0/7).
D. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: One lymphnode, no tumor seen (0/1).

E. Lymph nodes, axillary, excision: No lymph node seen, no tumor,(0/0).
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment
- Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 4.8 cm maximum diameter.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 3, 3 points.
Mitotic count: 10-20 mitotic figures/10 HPF, 2 points.
Tubuie/papilla formation: Definite tubule formation is apparent in <10%, 3 points.
Total points and overall grade -= 8 points = grade 3.
- Lymphatic-vascular invasion: Not present.
- Resection margins for invasive tumor:
- Deep margin: Negative (tumor is 1.5 cm away, on slide B4).
- Medial margin: Negative (>3 cm).
- Lateral margin: Negative (>3 cm).

 

Page! 0“

 

 

Surgical PatholggL— Working Draft

- Anterior/superior margin: Negative (tumor is 1 cm away, on slide B6).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative (tumor is 3 cm away, on slide B7).

- Ductai carcinoma in situ (DCIS) type: Solid.
- Ductai carcinoma in situ size:
- DCIS present as scattered microscopic foci up to 0.1 cm in diameter, involving one of twelve
total slides.
- Ductai carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: High grade.
- Necrosis in DCIS: A small amount of necrosis is seen.
- Microcaiciﬁcations: None.
- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ:
- Deep margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide 85).
- Medial margin: Negative (tumor is >3 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative (tumor is >3 cm away).
- Anterior/superior margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide 86)
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative (tumor is >1 cm away, on slide B7).
- Lymph node status: Sentinel lymph node positive for carcinoma, metastasis 0.4cm diameter,no
capsular penetration.
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 1.
- Total number sampled: 9.
- Diameter of largest metastasis: 1.6 cm.
- Extranodai extension: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2N1MX.

- Nontumorous breast tissue: Unremarkable.
- Nipple: Uninvoived.
- Skin/dermis: Uninvoived.

- Additional comments: Preliminary results were discussed with medical oncology team
, on . PR , ER not requested.

 

I
This report was amended due to a typographical error. The diagnoses have not been altered.
Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis
F51 (A) Sentinel lymph node #1, right axilla, biopsy: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. (Frozen section
and cytologic preparation.) (Dr.

Clinical History
The patient is 3 -year-old woman with right breast cancer. Right breast tumor. The patient now
undergoes right mastectomy and right axillary lymph node dissections.

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in ﬁve parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is additionally labeled consists of a single soft, oval,
pink lymph node, measuring 2.1 x 1.1 x 1 cm. me surgeon marks the hot spot with a stitch. This
stitched area is subsequently inked black. The node is bisected. Touch preparations and scrape
preparations are made. The remaining tissue is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as F51, with
the frozen section remnant submitted in cassette A1.

Part B, additionally labeled ’ ‘ ‘ consists of a single mastectomy
specimen. The breast tissue weighs 54/ gm and measures 20.5 cm from medial to lateral, 20.7 cm
from superior to inferior, and 5.7 cm from anterior to posterior. Anteriorly, the specimen exhibits a
skin ellipse measuring 19.9 x 9.2 cm. The breast areola is 4.5 x 3.9 cm and the nipple is 1.1 x 1.1 x
0.7 cm. The specimen is inked for microscopic evaluation: anterior superior surface in blue, the
anterior inferior surface in green, the posterior surface in black. On the posterior surface, a large, 12
cm incision is noted, representing the site from which the tumor sample was banked. The specimen is
serially sectioned from medial to lateral to reveal a chalky white tumor with irregular borders. The

 

Pam- ? nFA

iii?

 

I

_ Surchal Pathology - i Working Draft

tumor measures 3.5 x 3.2 x 4.8 cm (medial to lateral) and exhibits punctate hemorrhages. The
speCImen i5 sliced into twenty—one slices. The tumor is located between slices 6 and 11. Furthermore,
in slice 9, there is a cystic mass measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1 cm. It is filled with clear serosanguinous
fluid. The tumor margins are as follows: tumor is 1.2 cm from the posterior (black) margin, 0.8 cm
from the closest skin margin, 2.3 cm from the closest green margin, and 1.5 cm from the closest blue

margin. The remainder of the fatty breast parenchyma is unremarkable. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

Cassettes 81-83: Nipple.

Cassette B4:
Cassette BS:
Cassette 36:
Cassette B7:
Cassette 88:
Cassette 89:

Tumor with posterior margin.

Tumor with skin margin.

Tumor with blue margin.

Tumor with green margin.

Cystic mass.

Lateral inferior, representative section.

Cassette B10:
Cassette 811:
Cassette 312:

Lateral superior, representative section.
Medial superior, representative section.
Medial inferior, representative section.

Part C, additionally labeled ' consists of an unoriented irregularly shaped piece of
fatty tissue measuring 5.5 x 5 x 4 cm. It is yellow to tan. Within the tissue, seven firm nodes are
palpated, as well as two large matted nodes. All nodes are submitted as follows:

Cassettes C1-C2: Large matted lymph node mass 1.

Cassettes C3-C4: Large matted lymph node mass 2.

Cassette C5: Lymph nodes, three pieces.

Cassette C6:
Cassette C7:
Cassette C8:

Lymph nodes, two pieces.
Lymph node, one piece.
Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).

Part D, additionally labeled . consists of a single piece of unoriented,
irregularly shaped, fatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 2 x 1.5 cm. The specimen exhibits a single ovoid
nodule measuring 1 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The nodule is firm; this is entirely submitted in cassette Di.

Part E, additionally labeled ’ . consists of a single piece of unoriented,
irregularly shaped fatty tissue measuring 5 x 5 x 2 cm. The specimen is yellow to tan and palpation of
the specimen reveals fourteen firm nodes ranging from 0.3 to 1.5 cm in diameter. The nodes are
entirely submitted as follows:

Cassette E1: Lymph nodes, two pieces.

Cassette E2: Lymph nodes, two pieces.

Cassette E3: Lymph nodes, three pieces.

Cassette E4: Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).

Cassette E5: Lymph nodes, three pieces.

Cassette 56: Lymph nodes, three pieces.

Cassette E7: Lymph nodes, two pieces (bivalved).

Cassette E8: Lymph node, one piece.

 

Pathology Resident /Pathologist
Signed: “
Fee Codes:
Amendments
Amended:
Reason: Typographicai Error

Typographical Error in synoptic comment

 

Pane 3 ON

I“

_ Surgical Pathology - ‘N ,. WorkingDraft
Previous Signout Date:
Other Specimens

__Specimcn Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:

Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: immunohistostaining & interpretation only

Final Diagnosis
Immunostaining and interpretation for ER, PR, and HERZ/neu on 84:

Breast, right, mastectomy: Invasive ductai carcinoma negative for ER and PR, and
indeterminate for HERZ protein overexpression; see comment.

 

 

END OF REPORT Paae4 nf'4

