 

 

,1 Dlagnmig

‘
’

 

 

 

l" ' ' . Surgicai Pathoim Remark I
A. l — .

Accession Number. ‘ ,- :1". .»
“MIN“ ”a“? ﬁewﬁved Datemma:

Palhotoglxb .

eci an ri ﬂan
A‘ Gallbiadder
5. Node aflmportanca
C. thpple‘sspechﬁah

  

Cllnical Infggmntion
clancer, n the: hand of the pancreas with maiﬁgnant-appeaﬁng shudure of me common We duct as we" as a double duct
5 an.

A. Cholecyafectomv:
.. Chronic choiwﬁﬁs

B. Nada Oﬁfmpoﬁance:
- Onexlymph mde nagaﬁve fer carcinoma (0m

C. Pancmﬂcoduodenecmmy [Whippte rawcﬁon), Partial Pancreatecinmy:
.. Dacia! adenocurcmcmw

, - Site»; pancreatic head
— Size: 2.4 cm -
~ Grade 2
— Tumor Invades ren‘apanmuatiu soft tissue
— Margins uninVOlved by Invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive aaminoma fom ciosest mangln: 0.5 mm
(nonparttnnealized mtropancreaﬁciuncinam margin)

L n1;- h-vaacular ivnaslon idnehﬁed

 

  

 

 

 

 

. ‘ ' ' Q‘I,'ﬁrﬁliﬁﬁl Quihnlnnu ﬂan-ﬁnd!

 

Rumba Number:
C’olleralﬁd Dam: nMilieu 5312mm: —
ramminglst .

- Feﬁnaural inwsfon identiﬁed
Three nut of 12 lymph node$ directly lnvaded by tumor (3:12}

 

t

A - Pancreatic iﬁtmeplthalial neoplasm iPnnIN-wz)

‘K

Chronic panomaﬁﬁs

 

 

W

Reg-awed am specimens A to c. All requisitions and specimen oontainem are labelled with the patients name
' ”ﬁle cassetias and AP ldaniiﬁora are labelled with he Surgical Numbei

Fm Gallbladder. measuring 95 x 4.5 x 1.6 cm. The cystic duct is short The gallbladaer is cimd. After owning, ii is ﬁlled

with green bila'anq no calculus. Th3 wali thicknesg is 3 mm. The mucosa is smooth With yellow sum. The serum
surface is smccih.‘ There is hilariymph node ldenﬁﬂed. Representative seaming submitted in A1.

3. che oi importance. one lymph node 2.5 cm In diameter. bisected in 31 and 32.

C, mipple‘aspecimen. Devltaiizailon lime stem: at The specimen consists of a duodenum
measuring 19.0 cm in length and 5.0 to 8.0 cm in clr¢umierenoe. There is a portion of gashic tissue.- 2,5 cm in length. The
common bile duct meantime 5.3 cm in length and 1.5 cm in ciraumferanoa. A11} cm distal 5mm me ampulla ofvaler.
them is stenosis of the mmmon bile duct. Tile pancreas measures 5.0 x 2.5 x 2.0 mm. The mnpaﬁtuneallzad undnaia
Inked margin is inked In blue. There is a second minor :iucidenal papilla in addition to the major duodenal papilla. within
the head oftne pagans, mare is a not wail-demarmied tumor measuring 2.4 x 2.0 am. The tumor :3th some cysiic
mess imrd-ihe mlnor duodenal papilla. and is omen-vise solid gallowfwhlte and seems in approach the Miropancmaﬁc.

margin greasiyiquiie damiy.

Oi common bile duct margin
02 proximal gimme margin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"—7 . ' ' . cannula-l Daihhlnﬂu Runnl‘t

 

 

 

Accmion Number:
callcmd aster Receivm Dateﬁ‘lme:
Pathologist:

03 distal intestinal margin

C4 minor duodenal panllia

(35010 ampuita of Vater perpenuiwiarseciions
1""‘011 en'faca ﬁanmrse seam bclmvmm

012-013 inmw in relation in common bile dim:

61 4-431? tumor in relation to nonperlionaalized unclnale inked margin

018 nomalic paronchyma margin

G19 ymph nudes

(:20 one lymph nude blweted

021 further paacreaiic parenehyma from the head

C222 further ? lymph node

MKOict
nghulggiﬁ gammeﬁ

ﬁne to an unexplained technical pioblem. no synoplic repori could he messed.

 

 

 

 

