 
 
 

SURGiCAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .TCGil-BP'4957

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
Date of Report:
Account ii:
Bililng Type:
Additions! Copy to:

 

Ref. Source:

' ' nosls&Histo 2
it right renai tumor.

Specimens Submitted:
1: SP:Kidney, and adrenal, a portion of, right, nephrectomy-

2: SP: Lymph nodes. perecavat. excision
3: SP: Adrenai. right. completion edienalec omy-

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
‘l. szKidney. and adrenal, a portion of. right, nephrectomy-

Tumor Type:
Renei cell carcinoma — Conventionai (clear ceii) type

Fuhrman Nucieer Grade:
Nuclear grade ll/tV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 5.5 cm.

Local Invasion (for renal cortical types):
tnvoives renal sinus fat
(as a circumscribed nodule that is suspicious. but nci deﬁnitive, for a tumor emboius fitting 3 vascular space)

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Merging:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoptastic Kidney:
Multiple corticat scars. benign cortical cysts, and 2 tubuiopapiltary adenomes

Adrenei Gtand:
Not invoived

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renei cell carcinomafcncocytoma:
pT3a Tumor inVedes the adrenal gland or perinephrtc tissues but not beyond Gerota's fascia

2. SP: Lymph nodes, paracaval, excision -
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved

 

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

 

3. SP: Adrenal, right. completion adrenalectomy-z
Benign adrenal gland.

IATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINM'ION OF THE SLIDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT! HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPONT.

 

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description: .

l). The specimen is received fresh: labeled "Right kidney“ and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels and
pednephric tat welghing 776 g in total. The overall dimensions of the specimen are 25 x 10 x ”2.5 cm. The kidney measures 12.5 x
6.5 x 6 cm. The attached ureter measures 10.5 cm in length and 0.0 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 2.5 cm
in length and 0.7 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureterai margins are grossly unremarkable. A remnant of the adrenal
gland is identiﬁed. measuring 4 x 11.5 x 0.2 cm. The kidney is inked black and bivaived to reveal a subcortlcal. well-circumscribed.
oval1 bright orange to yellow hemorrhagic tumor measuring 5.5 >4 4.5 x 3.7 cm. The tumor extends from the mid to lower pole of
the kidney. impinges on the renal pelvis and sinus fat and is located 2.7 cm from the renal vein margin. There appears to be a layer
ottat separating the tumor from the renal vein and renal pelvis. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal two
unilocuieted cystic areas ttnad by Unremarkabie kidney parenchyma. The ﬁrst is identiﬁed in the mid to upper pole and measures
1.4 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm. The second is! located in the upper pole and measures 1.1 x i x 1 cm. The renal pyramids show ﬁrm orange
yellow areas of discoloration. There are similar areas of discoloration identiﬁed in the renal cortex measuring up to 0.8 x 0.6 cm in
greatest dimension. The remainder of the kidney shows a pink brown parenchyma, with a well~deﬁned corticomedulleryiunction.
There are no lymph nodes identiﬁed in the perinephric fat. On complete opening of the ureter, it shows smooth white ten
unremarkable mucosa. The specimen is photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent

sections.

Summary of sections:

UM -- ureteral margin

VM- vesset margins

TP~tumor and renal pelvis

TSF~~ tumorwith sinus fat

TV—tumor and renal vein

ADR-adrenal

HF-hiiar fat

CYST-cystic area. mid to upper pole
RS-representetlve sections of renal pyramids
DArdiscotored areas, renal cortex
DAT-discolored areas, renal cortex and adjacent tumor

2) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Paracaval lymph nodes". it consists of a 3.2 x 2.9 x 0.8 cm aggregate of fat and
lymph nodes. The largest lymph node measures 0.? x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for routine histology.

Page 2 of 3

Summary of sections:
LNulymph nodes

 

 

 

 

32 The specimen is received in formalin. labeled “Right adrenal gland”. it consists of e 6.5 gram, 4.6 x 4.2 x 1.5 cm adrenal gland
With attached perladrenai fat. The adrenal has an unremarkable orange yellow cortex, with a hemorrhagic appearing brown rod
centrei medulie. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
A—representatlve adrenei gland

Summary of Sections: ‘
Part ‘1: SP:Kidney, and adrenal, a portion of, right, nepltrectomt-

Block Sect. Site f PCs
adr '
02
cyst
da
dat
hi
rs
it)
tsf
iv
um
vm

A—xmcowM—L-s—AM—r-M
A—n-MpacaN—A—x—xmwem

Part 2: SP: Lymph nodes, paracaval, excision -

Block Sect. Site P05
3 in 8

Part 3: SP: Adrenal, right. compietion adrenalectomy-

Block Sect. Site. PCs
3 a _ 9

 

Page 3 oi3 END OF REPORT

 

