    

    

Patho ugy 'e

 

«army :z.\u!'.'ﬂ “an urn-x um 1,. ‘ _

Accession Number: Report Status:

Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type: '
Procedure Date:

Ordering Provide

tial or total resection

    
 
  

 

CASE: w
PATIENT: m

*ir-k-kiri: Addended Repo i-kiric‘ki:

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

new RADICAL NEPHRECTOMY:
{CLEAR CELL RENAL CELL CARCINOMA (8.2 cm), Fuhrman nuclear grade
"ll/IV, arising in the lower pole with foci of tumor necrosis and
hyalinization.
Approximately 60% of the tumor mass is viable.
Arterial, venous, and ureteral margins are negative for tumor.
Tumor is limited to the kidney and comes to within 0.1 cm of the

Gerota‘s fasc1a margin.

No lymphovascular invasion is seen.

No venous invasion is seen.

simple cortical cyst (1.3 cm).
The nonineoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the
findings will be reported in an addendum.

AJCC Classification: T2 Nx MX.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: None given.

Operation: Left radical nephrectomy, regional lymph node dissection.
Operative Findings: None given.

Clinical Diagnosis: Left renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
Left kidney with regional lymph nodes — FS room at 10:45, for special studies.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patients name, unit number,

and "#1 Left kidney and regional lymph nodes", and consists of one 95.7 gram
nephrectomy specimen (25.0 x 15.0 x 8.5 cm}, including a kidney (13.0 x 7.2 x
6.0 cm), a ureter (8.5 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter), a renal vein (1.2 cm
in length x 1.1 cm in diameter), and a renal artery (1.1 cm in length x 0.8 cm
in diameter). In the lower pole is a well-circumscribed, golden/yellow tumor
mass with areas of focal hemorrhage (6.0 x 8.2 x 5.0 cm). The tumor nodule
appears limited to the kidney but distorts and expands the kidney into the
perinephric fat. The tumor is present within 0.1 cm of the Gerota's fascial
margin. No definitive_features of invasion into the fat are identified. The

«

tumor is 5.2 cm from the ureteral margin, 5.5 cm from the arterial margin, and
4.7 cm from the venous margin. There is also a blood-filled cyst (1.3 x 1.2 x
0.9 cm) in the upper pole, and the remainder of the renal parenchyma is
tan/brown with well-defined corticomedullary junction. The pelvis and calices

are covered by smooth, glistening mucosa. Representative
etics and to Tissue Bank, and representative sections of

are sent to Cytogen
normal kidney are saved for electron microscopy and IF and sent to Tissue Bank.

No lymph node candidates are identified within the perinephric fat, and an
adrenal gland is not present. Gross photographs are taken.

Micro A1: Arterial, venous and ureteral margins, rags,-
Micro A2—A3: Tumor to Gerota‘s fascia, 2 frags,

Micro A4—AS: Tumor, 2 frags, .

Micro A6: Tumor to normal kidney, 1 frag, -
Micro A7: Renal cyst, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A8: Normal renal parenchyma, l frag, -

~an nhucinian certifies that he/she

swan-at :1 eminent“; s Autumn-nu

 

,x/personally co

   
 

       

190$“ Hat-yinﬂdm'r B‘(U'¢(f:‘li‘N(-¢|‘Hin$ Inuit :Y‘Jea. :, i V .

. . . . I, .. .

nducted a microscopic examination ( gross only _e§%ﬂs$3132p?tatedi
confirmed the diagnOSis esT"

1: 5:49er maarznmm-m mirarnn'm'muwﬁsi'l an”) I «cu s: "mm I) r...» «w any»: «In an:

of the described specimen(s) and rendered or
related thereto.

RENAL PATHOLOGY EVALUATION OF KIDNEY PARENCHYMA —

LEFT NEPHRECTOMY:

DIFFUSE AND NODULAR DIABETIC GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS, MODERATE, WITH
SUPERIMPOSED COLLAPSING FEATURES (SEE NOTE}

MODERATELY ADVANCED SCLEROSING CHANGES OF THE KIDNEY:
- FOCAL GLOBAL GLOMERULOSCLEROSIS (19 % OF GLOMERULI)
- TUBULAR ATROPHY AND INTERSTITIAL FIBROSIS {25% OF THE PARENCHYMA
- ARTERIAL AND ARTERIOLAR SCLEROSIS, SEVERE (SEE NOTE)

PROMINENT CASTS IN DISTAL TUBULES (SEE NOTE)

NOTE:
The changes seen in this biopsy are those seen in patients with moderately

advanced diabetic nephropathy. An independent and superimposed immune
complex—mediated glomerulopathy has been ruled out. Also seen are superimposed
collapsing lesions in few of the glomeruli. To put these morphological lesions
in better perspective it is important to correlate this finding with the degree
of proteinuria and renal failure in this patient. Collapsing lesions are
sometimes present in patients with advanced kidney disease due to other causes;
we have observed this type of lesions in a small percentage of end—stage
kidneys removed during renal transplantation; the cause and mechanism of this
type of lesions is poorly understood at this time. However, a superimposed
collapsing glomerulopathy in this patient cannot be ruled out with-certainty;
patients with an active collapsing glomerulopathy can be expected to have a
very pronounced proteinuria and renal functional impairment. It may therefore
be prudent to determine the degree and the evolution of the proteinuria in this

patient.

s has traditionally been considered part of the
structural changes seen in diabetic patients with renal disease. These
vascular lesions are non—specific, however, and similar changes characterize
various primary forms of vascular injury in the kidney. Such conditions include

the healed phase of HUS/TTP and pro—coagulant states (thrombophilia,
antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, etc.), autoimmune disorders (scleroderma,
tive tissue disorders, etc.), toxic injury affecting

undifferentiated connec
components of the vascular wall (vero cytotoxin, antibody-mediated vascular

Prominent vascular sclerosi

injury, drugs with vascular toxicity, etc.), physical factors (irradiation,
status post bone marrow transplantation), and, potentially, metabolic diseases
with an important vascular component (gout, diabetes, hyperhomocysteinemia,

etc.). Therefore, a primary form of vascular injury superimposed on diabetes
mellitus should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of this

patient‘s kidney disease.

The widespread cast formation in the distal tubules is worrisome. Although
these casts appear to be benign hyaline cast in that they are PAS—positive,
they do not appear fractured, they are not surrounded by a Cell reaction, and
they are reactive for polyclonal IgA on immunofluorescence microscopy, a prior
episode of light chain cast nephropathy cannot be ruled out with absolute

certainty especially since the casts stain slightly stronger for lambda than
for kappa light chains. In my experience, myeloma casts loose their specific
light chain reactivity with time and become hyaline casts; they transform from

pure protein cast, which are characteristically PAS-negative, to conventional

.. nnn .nnaif-ivp. (18.8125 and: With time’ they take on reaCtiVitY for
. ..-I _-a:nﬁe En scarab for a

     

     

paraprotein in the serum and in the urine. I have to stress here, that the
cast seen currently in this biopsy do not have the characteristics of classic
myeloma casts.

The kidney parenchyma has been reviewed by Dr.— Renal

Pathologist.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION:
The sample consists of renal cortex and outer medulla. There are two hundred

and thirty four (234} glomeruli present in the sample submitted for light
microscopy. Forty—four (44) glomeruli are globally obsolescent (sclerosed).
The preserved glomeruli show enlargement of the glomerular tuft with diffuse
sclerosis of the mesangium and increase of the mesangial cells. Several
glomeruli show characteristic Kimmelstiel—wilson nodules. Double contours are
noted in some of the capillary loops with some glomeruli exhibiting signs of
mesangiolysis. Focal reabsorption granules are also noted in two of the
glomeruli with prominent epithelial cell proliferation and collapse of the
capillary tufts. Tubules reveal marked thickening of the tubular basement
membranes and focal tubular atrophy. PAS casts are seen. The interstitium is
focally replaced by dense connective tissue, particularly in the areas of
tubular atrophy. Approximately 25% of the sample shows tubular atrophy and
interstitial fibrosis, as evidenced on the trichrome stains (AFOG). Arteries
reveal severe intimal sclerosis and duplication of the internal elastic lamina.
Arterioles show hyaline deposits in the vessel walls of both afferent and

efferent arterioles.

The integrity of the renal parenchyma and the structural details of the
basement membranes were evaluated on sections stained with PAS, trichrome
(AFOG), and Jones' silver methenamine.

IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPY REPORT

Sections of frozen tissue were incubated with antibodies specific for the heavy
chains of IgG, IgA, and IgM, kappa and lambda light chains, C3, Clq, albumin,
and fibrin-related antigens.

The sample consists of kidney cortex and medulla. There are fifty—one (51}
glomeruli present, of which ten are globally sclerosed. There are no
significant immune deposits present in the glomeruli. There is segmental,
irregular granular deposition of IgM and C3 in the mesangial areas.-Tubules
contain reabsorbed proteins (albumin, IgG, C3} in the form of cytoplasmic
granules. Tubular basement membranes reveal focal deposition of C3 (++/4+).
Several casts in the distal tubules are reactive for polyclonal IgA with a:
noticeable overexpression of lambda over kappa light chains. Coarse IgM and C3
deposits are present in the walls of several arterioles. There is no difference
noted in the intensity of the staining for kappa and lambda light chains in the

background of the tissue.

This second addendum was added my mistake; no additional diagnostic information
is added .

 

 

  

« . . , 2» ..._-.. 21-: u---.: .T‘T-rr'-‘ wavmir ,.,._,. nmr-a:vaqg-¢a;q::-:a~;wr “7‘. v T'F‘Jr'nug

Accession Number: 1|“. Report Statu

Type: ics

CASE:

PATIENT“

KARYOTYPE: 46,XY[5]

METAPHASES COUNTED: 5 ANALYZED: 5 SCORED: 0 BANDING: GTG
INTERPRETATION :

Only 5 metaphase cells were obtained and analyzed from this specimen and no
cytogenetic aberrations were identified. This limited/incomplete study may not
rule out mosaicism at a level that is standard for such an analysis.

COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the

standard methods employed. Chromosome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
Left Renal Mass

 

 
   

 

 

