ate-{D43 <3:

SURGKHM.PATHOLﬁKyfREVKHH)REPORT ‘ QJQ
W M ”a“:
Case Number: ' ’%>67d,3 ,uas

. . (Sill c5 43'2”
DiagnOSis:

5);:[13
A: Nerve, pharyngeal plexus, biopsy

— Skeletal muscle, fibroadipose connective tissue and nerve
- No malignancy identified

B: Lymph nodes, left, level 2, regional node dissection
— 2 of 14 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell

carcinoma, 1.8 cm in greatest dimension with extracapsular
extension (2/14)

C: Lymph nodes, left neck level 3, regional node dissection
- 3 of 13 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell

carcinoma, size 2.8 cm in greatest dimension with extracapsular
extension (3/13)

D: Lymph nodes, left neck, level 4, regional node dissection
— 13 lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/13)

Redacted

E: Lymph nodes, right neck level 2, regional node dissection
— 2 of 8 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma, size 3.2 cm in greatest dimension without
extracapsular extension (2/8)

    

F: Lymph nodes, right neck level 3, regional node dissection
— l of 15 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma, size 2.4 cm in greatest dimension with no
extracapsular extension (1/15)

UUID : 81372C36-FC72-4A9E-A81C-AE063F35FD25
TCGA-BA- ASDA- BIA—PR

G: Lymph nodes, right neck, level 4, regional node dissection
_ l of 24 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell

carcinoma, 3 mm in greatest dimension with no extracapsular
extension (1/24)

— Thyroid epithelium also present within subcapsular sinus of 2

lymph nodes, cannot exclude metastatic thyroid carcinoma (see
comment)

H: Larynx, laryngectomy
Tumor histologic type/subtype: invasive squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: moderately differentiated

Location of primary site: Bilateral supraglottis, involving

bilateral false cords and bilateral aryepiglottic folds,
extending focally into left glottis, anteriorly into epiglottis
involving epiglottic cartilage, and anteriorly into hyoid bone.
Invasive carcinoma abuts but does not involve bilateral strap
muscles. The vallecula is negative.

Size: 3.9 x 3.8 x 1.6 cm per gross measurement

Extent of invasion:

Angiolymphatic: not identified; however, multiple lymph nodes
are positive in subsequently submitted sections

Adjacent subsite: not applicable

Vocal cord fixation: not identified

Into/through cartilage: invasive carcinoma invades epiglottic
cartilage but not thyroid cartilage

Outside the larynx: tumor involves hyoid bone

P16 IHC status: pending (H3)
HR HPV ISH status: pending (H3)
In situ carcinoma: present

Surgical Margins: Negative but very close (<1 mm) from blue
inked right margin. Black inked left margin is 2 mm from the
invasive carcinoma and anterior is 6 mm from invasive carcinoma.
Inferior tracheal margin is negative.

Mucosal margins are negative for squamous cell carcinoma in
situ.

Lymph nodes: see additional sections

Other significant findings:
- Perineural invasion present

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT4a pN2c pr

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:

In specimen G, bland appearing thyroid epithelium is present in
the subcapsular sinus of two lymph nodes. No parenchymal
involvement is identified, and no nuclear features of papillary
thyroid carcinoma are identified. This may represent benign

thyroid inclusions in lymph node; however, a metastatic
carcinoma of thyroid origin cannot be excluded. Clinical
evaluation and imaging of the thyroid gland is recommended.

Clinical History:
-year—old female with larynx cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are eight appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "pharyngeal plexus nerve"
and is an 8 x 6 x 2 mm aggregate of two red/tan soft tissue
fragments, A1,

Container B is additionally labeled "left neck level 2" and
consists of a 3.2 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm fragment of yellow/tan
fibrofatty tissue with embedded sutures. Seven lymph node
candidates up to 2.1 cm in greatest dimension are identified.

Block Summary:

Bl - Three lymph node candidates

B2 — Two lymph node candidates

B3 - One lymph node candidate, trisected
B4.— One lymph node candidate, trisected
B5—B6 — Remainder of fat,

Container C is additionally labeled "left neck level 3" and is a
5.4 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue
dissected for lymph node candidates. Multiple lymph node
candidates up to 2.8 cm in greatest dimension are identified.

Block Summary:

C1 — Four lymph node candidates

C2 — Four lymph node candidates

C3 — Two lymph node candidates

C4 — One lymph node candidate, sectioned

C5 — One lymph node candidate, trisected

C6 - Representative of one grossly positive lymph node candidate
(largest)

Tissue remains in formalin.

Container D is additionally labeled "left level 4 neck
dissection" and is a 4.4 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm fragment of cauterized
fibrofatty tissue dissected for lymph node candidates. Multiple
lymph node candidates up to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension are
identified.

Block Summary:

D1 - Seven lymph node candidates

D2 — Two lymph node candidates

D3 — Representative section from large caliber vessel
Tissue remains in formalin.

Container E is additionally labeled "right level 2 neck
dissection" and is a 4.5 x 2.8 x 1.6 cm fragment of cauterized
fibrofatty tissue dissected for lymph node candidates. Four
lymph node candidates up to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension are
identified.

Block Summary:

E1 — Two lymph node candidates

E2 — One lymph node candidate, bisected

E3 — Representative section from largest lymph node (grossly
positive)

Tissue remains in formalin.

Container F is additionally labeled "right level 3 neck
dissection" and is a 5.4 x 3.7 x 1.5 cm aggregate of cauterized
fibrofatty tissue and muscle. Multiple lymph node candidates up
to 2.4 cm in greatest dimension are identified.

Block Summary:

Fl — Four lymph node candidates

F2 — Three lymph node candidates

F3 — One lymph node candidate, sectioned

F4 - One lymph node candidate, bisected

F5 — One lymph node candidate, bisected

F6 — Representative section of skeletal muscle

F7 — Representative section of largest, grossly positive lymph
node candidate

Tissue remains in formalin.

Container G is additionally labeled "right level 4 neck
dissection" and is a 4.5 x 1.9 X 1.4 cm aggregate of fibrofatty
tissue, dissected for lymph node candidates. Lymph nodes up to
0.8 cm in greatest dimension are identified.

Block Summary:

G1 — Five lymph node candidates
G2 — Five lymph node candidates
G3 — Five lymph node candidates
G4 - Three lymph node candidates
Tissue remains in formalin.
Specimen H:

Specimen fixation: Formalin

Type of specimen: Total laryngectomy with attached anterior
strap muscles.

Size of specimen: 8.1 cm superior to inferior, 5.2 cm right to
left, 3.2 cm anterior to posterior.

Orientation of specimen: Right/blue, left/black,
vollecula/yellow and anterior/midline green

Tumor description: Well demarcated, centrally ulcerated with
peripherally raised firm white borders.

Location of tumor: Supraglottis involving the bilateral false
cords and extending across the midline to the right and left
aryepiglottic fold.

Tumor size: 3.9 cm superior to inferior x 3.8 cm right to left x
1.6 cm in thickness.

Extent of tumor: The tumor involves both right and left false
cords and the anterior commissure. It extends to the right and
left aryepiglottic folds and creeps up onto the epiglottis. The
vallecula is grossly unremarkable. The hyoid bone is present and
unremarkable. The horns of the thyroid cartilage are present and
grossly unremarkable. The true cords in the subglottic region
are unremarkable. The pyriform sinuses are unremarkable with the
exception of undermining tumor.

Sectioning through the tumor reveals a solid white cut surface
with extension into the soft tissues of the epiglottis extending
antericrly towards the vallecula (0.3 cm from the vallecula
margin (14), extension to the underlying thyroid cartilage but
does he: appear to invade the thyroid cartilage, the anterior
neck mus:les are freely movable over the tumor, bilaterally. The
tumor undermines the mucosa of the right and left aryepiglottic
folds. The subglottic region is grossly unremarkable. The hyoid
bone is intact and the tumor is freely movable over the hyoid
bone.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: The mucosa component of
the tumor comes within 0.9 cm of the right pyriform sinus
margin, 1.2 cm from the left pyriform sinus margin, 2.1 cm from
the anterior vallecular margin, 3.3 cm from the inferior
trachea- ring margin, 0.2 cm from the blue inked right anterior

soft tissue margin, 0.3 cm from the black inked left anterior
soft tissue margin, and 0.4 cm from the green inked anterior
midline margin.

Description of remainder of tissue: The subglottis is lined by
grossly unremarkable mucosa. The anterior strap muscles are
unremarkable. No thyroid gland is identified.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor is given to
tissue procurement.

Lymph nodes: Submitted separately.
Digital photograph taken: Yes

Block Summary:

Inking: right/blue, left/black, vallecula/yellow and anterior
midline/green

H1 — En face tracheal margin

H2 — Perpendicular sections of right aryepiglottic fold into
pyriform sinus

H3 - Perpendicular sections of left aryepiglottic fold into
pyriform sinus

H4 — Epiglottis and vallecula

H5 — Right glottis

H6 - Left glottis (contains thyroid cartilage)

H7 - Anterior commissure

H8 — Perpendicular sections of green inked anterior midline,
black inked left, blue inked right strap muscle margin

H9 — Remainder of right superior mucosal margin, en face
H10 — Remainder of left superior mucosal margin, en face
H11 - Perpendicular section of anterior midline hyoid bone

beneath tumor (not grossly involved) (decal)

Addendum
For immunohistochemistry.

Addendum Comment

P16 is positive and HPV high risk is negative by ISH in a
representative section of invasive carcinoma (H3).

TTF-l and thyroglobulin are attempted on G3 to highlight the
foci of thyroid glands within lymph nodes; however, both foci
are cut through and immunohistochemistry is not contributory.
The previous diagnoses are unchanged.

Prim. Tumor Sm:

HIP-AA

Pnor Malmnawcy Htlmv
5“.

r

   

   
  

case is
Reviewer

  
  
    
  
 
  
   

