uu:n:7a1451aa Es7c- -4E3A- A1F5- -ssac7ssaaae1
TCGA- so- AaJp- --91A PR dacted

I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

I I
IIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllll lllll

Normal Blood ID:
SPECIMEN(S):
ZZLD b 3
52mm) Mots 9041/3

' . I .. Z.‘
FINAL DIAGNOSIS. S I: ; Jig/1:0 No.3 Or» 7
Testicle, left, radical orchiectomy: ()4) // 2 7/114

Left testicle

— Histologic type: Seminoma, classical, pure.
- lntratubular germ cell neoplasia: Present

- Extent of invasion:

1. Invasion or penetration of tunica albuginea: Absent
2. Invasion of tunica vaginalis: Absent
3. Involvement of paratesticular structures (epididymis or

cord): Absent
4. Angiolymphatic invasion: Absent

- Resection margins (including spermatic cord): All margins
negative.
- Lymph nodes: Not included in specimen.
COMMENT:
Sections of the tumor show a classical seminoma; it does not extend
through the tunica albuginea. The adjacent testicular tissue shows
intratubular germ cell neoplasia, hypospermatogenesis and maturation
arrest. There is no evidence of vascular invasion.
CLINICAL HISTORY:

The patient is a -year-old male with left testicle mass.

GROSS:

One formalin-filled container is received labeled with the patient's
name, medical record number.

The container is labeled "left testicle." The specimen consists of a

5.8 x 4.9 x 3.4 cm, 64.0 gm left orchiectomy specimen with attached 10.0
cm in length and 1.2 cm in diameter segment of spermatic cord. The
resection margins are inked. Serial sectioning along the long axis of,
the testicle demonstrates a 4.4 x 4.3 x 3.2 cm mixed pink-tan and dark
red circumscribed tumor with focal areas of hemorrhage. The tumor is
11.0 cm from the closest spermatic cord resection margin, 0.2 cm from
the tunica vaginalis margin and 0.4 cm from the epididymis. The tumor
occupies 70% of total testicle volume. Representative tissue was
procured for potential future studies. Representative sections are
submitted in twelve cassettes.

Summary of sections:

1 - distal spermatic cord resection margin.

2 - closest tunica vaginalis margin.

3 - epididymis.

4 - intersection between the proximal spermatic cord and tumor.

5 through 10 - tumor.

11 - normal testicle parenchyma.

12 - representative section of spermatic cord at middle and distal
segment.

MICROSCOPIC:

Microscopic evaluation is performed.

 

 

