 

  

Patient Name;

Med. Rec. #:
008:

Gender:

Ref. Physlcinn.‘
Pairarat Address

Ref Source.

 

Accession #:
Dale of Procedure.

Gale 0! Reoeipl'
Dale of Report‘
Account #‘
Billing Typc'
Additional Copy to:

 

 

 

ls & Histor :
ilh large ieﬂ renal mass.

Specimens Submitted:
l; SP: Lea kidney and ureter

2: SP: Para aortic lymph nodes
3: SP. Preaorlic lymph nodes
4: SP: Suprahilar Eyrnph nodes and adrenal gland

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1‘

SP: Left kidney and ureter.
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Unclassiﬁed type
The tumor is high grade wilh a crarnhénalinn of papiilary. lul‘mlar and clear colt Icalures and f cal desmoplastic
slroma.

Tumor Size:
Greatesl diamezerrs 11.5 cm

Lona! Invasion (for renal cortical iypes):
involves rena! sinus fai
Tumor involves nerinepnric fat

Renal Vern invasion:
Not Ideniifred

Surgical Margins;
Free of tumor
Non-Neopiasiic Kidney:
chronic pyebnephriiis, nephrocalciuusis and focal coriical scarring and cysls.

Adrenai Gland:
No! irienliﬁed
See part 4

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

Slaging for renal cell carcinomaroncocylama;
pTBa Tumor invades llae adrenal gland or perinophr‘ic tissues but not beyond Garcia's fascia

Comment: The tumor cells are dilluseiy irnmunoreacliva for RACEMASE and 0910; and focaliy posilive for CEA, 3481-312,
and C147. CNX and Cytokeralin AELAEB are negative in tumor ceiEs.

 

Page i of 3

 

 

 

 

 

2. Para aortic lymph nodes; dissection:
-Nine benign lymph nodes (0/9).

3. Proaorttc lymph nodes:
~ “ten benign lymph nodes (0110).
i
4. Suprahitar iymptﬁnodes and adrenal gland; iii
— Benign adrenai'iissue.
~ No lymphoid tissue identified.

tATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS l3 BASED UPON M‘i’ PERSONN. EXAMINATlON OF THE SHOES (r'tiiDi'OR OTHER MATERMLL AND THAT i HAVE
RE‘JiEWED AND APPROVED YRlS REPORT

5...
.13.:

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment
CK?
RACEMASE
CA-‘lX.
CDlO
348E12
CEA P
A131 :AES
iile RECUT
NEG CONT

 

Gross Description:

  

lithe specimen is received fresh taoe e c t i nay an ureter" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels and
perinepliric fat weighing 853 g in total. The kidney measures 17.5 x l l x 9 cm, The attached ureter measures 1 i am in length
and 0.3 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 1.4 Girl in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and
ureter margins are grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not idoniiﬁed. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a
hemorrhagic bright yellow to tan friable mass at the upper pole of the kidney measuring 13.5 x Q x Sam, The inaSS is sharply
circumscribed from the adjacent kidney parenchyrna and grossly extends into the perinophric fat and abuts Gerota‘s fascia which is
inked black. Turner extends to within 0.5 cm of the renal sinus. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown
parenuhyrna, with a well-deﬁned corticomedultary junction and several cortical cysts ﬁtted with straw colored serous fluid in the
inferior portion of the kidney measuring up to 2 cm in greatest dimension each. The cortex measures 0.7 cm and the catyccs
appear normal. L m h nodes are not identified in tho perinophric fat. The specimen is photographed. Representative sections
are submitted faint for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

UVM .. urcterai and vessel margins
T-- tumor

TPFu tumor with ocrinepiiric fat

to - tumor With Garcia‘s fascia

SF . sinus {at closest to tumor

K .. representative sections kidney
C ~ cortical cysts

   

2). The specimen is received in formalin, la 9 e BfEbEtOI‘ltC yniph nodes" and consists of six pink tan firm. fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 0.5 to 2.? cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Sunnnary of sections:
LN -- lymph nodes

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

 

 

BLN» bisected lymph node

 

3). The specimen is received in formalin. tabeied "Preaortic lymph nodes“ and consists of seven pink tan ﬁrm. fatty lymph nodes
ranging from t to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension, All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

4). the specimen is received in formalin. labeled “Suprehtlar lymph nodes and erlrenat gland" and consists of a 8 x 3 x 2 cm
portiorr ol ﬁbroadipose tissue. Cut sections reveal three yellow tan fatty lymph nodes varying from 0.7 to 1.2 cm. A cystic goiden

Summary of sections.
LN -- lymph notieS
BLN-v bisected lymph node

yeilow adrenal membrane is identiﬁed . measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are subntittect.. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
A adrenai gland
LN e lymph nodes

Summaﬂ of Sections:

Part 1: SP: Left kidney and ureter

Block Sect. Site P03

4 add 4

i C 1

i K 't

3 SF 3

2 T 4

2 TO 2 4
3 TPF {3 -
i uvm ’1

Part 2: SP: Para aortic lymph nodes

Biock Sect. Site PCs

2 BLN 2

2 LN 5

Part 3: SP: Prooortic lymph nodes

Block . Sect. Site PCs

2 BLN 12

ct LN 4

Part 4: SP: Sirprahiiar lymph nodes and adrenal gland

Block Sect. Site P63
3 A 3
2 LN 2

 

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

 

 

 

