 

From Page: 6/11 Date: t

 

DOB/Age/Sex: . _ _ _ _
Location: UUID'iéztiiiii-cginﬁgagiﬂ BBFAeaFae[Itsecdac'ced
llllllllll

Requested”. IllIllIIllIllllllllIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

R td '.

Spfé‘ﬁéiem‘v’ﬁ: IllIll!IllllllIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Ill llllllIlllHlllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Accession No.:
Copies t0'

 

L HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT 1

CLINICAL DETAILS

Metastatic melanoma - tumour bank

(1) Tumour right axilla. (2) Small bowel tumour (distal).

(1) Small bowel anastomosis site. (2) Proximal small bowel tumour. (3) Proximal anastomosid small bowel.
NB: 2 other specimens sent to tumour bank

Metastatic melanoma.

W

Fresh tissue was taken for tumour banking

 

Wong Qt! /at> - a ’ 3
s DESCRIPT‘ 7 Udall/7W M s 5'73. 0/ 3

’ Jlﬁt/W M, “Ki/Ia... ¢7‘7.3
Five specimens received. ,Ad /3'/I 3/”

l. "LYMPH NODE RIGHT AYELA". Specimen is a ﬁrm nodule with an attached, small amount of fat,
specimen measures 50 x 45 x 30mm. Tissues have been taken for tumour banking and specimen is inked
blue. On serial sectioning cut surface appears grayish brown and nodular. Tumour abuts blue inked margin
Six representative sections from turnout are embedded from Block 1A» 1F.

2. "SMALL BOWEL". Specimen consists of a section of small bowal, received unopened. The bowel
measures from superior to inferior 145mm with an opened diameter of 70mm. The attached mesentery is
65mm wide. the external surface of bowel is grey and dull with a mass palpable under the serosal surface.
The mucosal surface of bowel shows afnngating polypoidal and ulcerating tumour which is 40mm away
from blue inked margin. and 75mm away from black inked margin. Tumour is 30mm away from nearest
radial resection margin. Tumour measures 45 x 35 x 20mm and involves the whole thickness of bowel. and
penetrating into adjacent fat

2A Blue resection margin.

ZB. B lack resection margin

2Q2D,2E & 2F. Representative sections from tumour showing relationship with mucosal surface
serosa and adjacent fat

26. One apical node tr'wected.

21-? Sampling fat for possible lymph nodes

3. "SMALL BOWEL ANASTOMOSIS SIDE". Specimen consists of a small section of bowel, measuring
7mm in length with a closed diameter of 32mm. Staples removed and specimen embedded in Blocks 3A-3D.

4. "PROXIMAL SMALL BOWEL TUMOUR". Specimen consists of a segment of bowel, measuring
105mm in length with a closed diameter of 55mm There is attached fatty tissue. measuring 5mm wide. The
serosal surface is dull and grey. The mucosal surface shows a fungatting ulcerating necrotic tumour
measuring 75 x 65 to a height of 15mm. This tumour is 12mm away from blue inked margin, and 20mm
away from black inked margin. 0n cut section the tumour involves entire thickness of bowel wall and
penetrates into adjacent fat with extensive necrotic areas.

 

Printer
Page 1 012

This fax was received by " ‘

From: Page: 7/1 1 Date:

Requested by

 

 

1206““ ..... .._ _ __
Accession: ” — ‘ — “ ’* —
L HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT 7
4A. Blue inked margin.
48. Black inked margin.
4C-4G. Representative section of tumour showing relationship with mucosa, scrosa and
adjacent bowel.
4H. sampling fat for possible nodes

5. "PROXIMAL ANASTOMOSIS SMALL BOWEL". Specimen consists of a small section of bowel.
15mm long with a close diameter of 30mm. staples removed. Representative section embedded ﬁ‘om Block
5A to 5D. 50% of specimen embedded.

MCBOSCOEIQ REPORT

1. "LYMPH NODE RIGHT AXILLA". Sections conﬁrm the presence of metastatic melanoma which
essentially replaces the lymph node. Focal extranodal extension. is seen, where tumour extends to within
0.2mm of the blue inked resection margin.

Stains for melanoma markers (LIME/45, 8-100 and .MelanA) are diffusely and strongly positive.

2. "SMALL BOWEL". Sections confirm the presence of-metastatic melanoma (melanoma markers are
diﬂ’usely positive) which forms a large nodule erosing the overlying small bowel mucosa and extending into
the subserosal fat. The margins appear clear. The small bowel mucosa away from the tumour shows intact
Villains architecture. One lymph node is identiﬁed at the apex which contains pigmented histiocytes but no
evidence of metastatic melanoma.

3. "SNLALL BOWEL ANASTOMOSIS SIDE“. Sections of small intestine show viable tissue with no
evidence of malignancy.

4. "PROXIMAL SMALL BOWEL TUMOUR". Sections again show an epitlielioid tumour consistent with
metastatic melanoma, with an admixed lymphocytic inﬁltrate. The lesion ulcerates the small bowel mucosa
and extends to involve the full thicloiess of the wall of the bowel. The resection margins appear clear. No
15mph nodes are identified

5. "PROXIMAL ANASTOMOSIS SMALL BOWEL“.Sections of small intestine show viable tissue with no
evidence of malignancy.

UMMARY
l. "LYMPH NODE RIGHT AXILLA". Metastatic melanoma

2. "SMALL BOWEL". Metastatic melanoma

. “Sh-[ALL BOWEL ANASTOMOSIS SIDE". No evidence “of malignancy"

.m be

4. "PROXIMAL SMALL BOWEL TUh-IOUR". Metastatic melanoma
/'
5. “PROXIMAL ANASTOMOSIS SMALL BO WEL“. No evidence of malignancy

REPORTED BY

Pnn
Page 2 or z

This fax was received

