uum:17sacenu 13c1- 4E7A- arsa- s71acs1s1££a Description: rear old female

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ”apartment—nu—

III
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||IIIIIII|IHI||IIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

 

Encounter W
Report
Transcrl tlon 11m IQ ngtaﬂna Daiﬁl'l'lmn m
Rgsult SurglcalPaihoIogy ﬂ *
Dggumgmlm
SURGERY CASE a: nun- FINAL
DATE or SURGERY: "
SPECIMEN: A. Wedge. right lower lobe lung.
E. Lung, right lower lobe.
0. Lung node R10
D. Lung node R10 — B
E. Lung node R10 — C
FROZEN sscnon DIAGNOSIS: A. Carcinoma. ‘
B. Bronchial surgical margin free of tumor.
OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Right video—assisted thoracoecopy with
biopsy, right lower lung lobeotomy.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lung mass.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: None given.

i**ﬁ*i*****DIAGNOSIS**i********
A-E.
1. Type of specimen:

Right lower lobe lobectomy with lymph node biopsies.

2 . Tumor type:

Squamous cell carcinoma. LZ:(ZZI)'<§"L:3
3. Histologio grade: ' 5 (LS can No.3

Poorly differentiated. Caren/)0 mat-,- 5WD

(>70 A3

4. Tumor size: S?

3.5 cm. dj‘l';£' (:6 L‘.‘ If? [00)” [Obi
5. Surgical margins:

All surgical margins free of tumor.

Wig/2g 21/qu

6. Direct extension of tumor:

Not identified.

'7. Venous (large vessel) invasion:
. Absent.

8. Lymphatic (small vessel) invasion:
Absent.

9. Lymph nodes:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 3.
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0 (0/3).

1:. _—

 

Page 2 of 3

10. Additional pathologic findings:
Mild chronic inflammation and bronchiectasis.

11. TNM STAGING:
pTZa, pNO, pr

88331, 83307, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 88342, 38331, 88309,
88305, 88305, 88305

MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

A. Sections of the mass'grossly described demonstrate an invasive
malignant epithelial neoplasm. The tumor is composed of infiltrating
nests of somewhat polygonal cells with distinct cell borders with
cells containing a small to moderate amount of cytoplasm and enlarged
nuclei with nuclear pleomorphism. There are nests with central
necrosis. There are also rare neOplastic cells with dense
eosinophilic cytoplasm. There is no definite lymphovascular
invasion. The tumor is seen closely approaching, but not involving,
the pleural surface. Focal vague lumina differentiation is noted.
Immunohistochemistry stains are obtained and the neoplastic cells are
positive with cytokeratin 5, positive with cytokeratin 7, negative
with cytokeratin 20, negative staining with TTF—l, strong nuclear
staining with p63, and negative staining of the tumor cells with
Napsin-A. The remainder of the lung demonstrates mild interstitial
fibrosis with mildly thickened alveolar septae.

B. Multiple sections are examined and sections of the bronchial surgical
margins are free of tumor. The vascular margins are also free of
tumor. No peribronchial lymph node is identified. Sections of the
lung at the previous wedge resection site demonstrates hemorrhage
with no residual tumor. Random sections of the lung demonstrate mild
fibrosis and bronchiectasis. .

C. Sections demonstrate fragments of a benign lymph node with mild
anthracotic pigment. There is no malignancy.

D. Sections are of fragments of a benign lymph node with similar
findings as described above. There is no malignancy.

E. Sections are of fragments of a benign lymph node with similar
findings as described above. There is no malignancy. *

GROSS:

A. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name, account number, and

“lung wedge, right lower lobe" is a wedge biopsy of lung measuring 8
x 4 x 2 cm. The pleural surface is red-brown and contains an area of
retraction measuring 2 cm. The pleural surface is inked in black.
Sectioning reveals a 3.5 cm in maximum dimensions ill-defined mass
with a tan~gray, mottled cut surface. Representative sections of the
mass are submitted for frozen section and following permanent
sections in Cassette $1, with touch preparations also performed. The
remainder of the specimen is sectioned to demonstrate a red-brown.
soft and spongy parenchyma with no additional masses identified. A
representative section is submitted for Genomics Project. Additional
sections are submitted for permanent in blocks #2 through #4:
Cassettes #2 and #3 ~ additional sections of the mass, #4 ~ grossly
uninvolved lung.

B. Received labeled "lung, right lower lobe" is a 15 x 8 x 5 cm in
maximum dimensions lobectomy specimen. There is a 8 cm staple line
at the previous wedge resection site. The specimen is serially
sectioned and no residual tumor is grossly identified. The bronchial
margin is submitted for frozen section and frozen section diagnosis
in block #1. Sections are then submitted for permanent as follows: #2
— Vascular margins and probable peribronchial lymph node. #3 and #4 —

 

Page 3 of 3

Sections from previous wedge resection site. #5 ~ Grossly uninvolved

lung. _

C. Received
and "node
x 0.5 cm.
cassette.

in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
R10" is a single anthracotic lymph node measuring 1.1 x 0.7
The specimen is bisected and totally submitted in one

TS—l

D. Received in Formalin labeled with the patient's name, account number,
and "level 10 R node — B" are multiple fragments of anthracotic lymph
node measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The specimen is
totally submitted in a single cassette. TS—l

E. Received in Formalin labeled with the patient'a name, account number,
and "RIO - C node" is a single anthracotic lymph node measuring 0.3 x
0.3 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in a. single cassette.

TS-l "

Electronically Signed by
(Ill-IIIIIIIIIII. MD

 

“MD

Dictated: Johﬂl —
Transcribed: Doc” “on

cc: “9 MD
we no

 

Transcription BMW

History

 

Service
Date/Time
Filed
Date/Time

 

 

Treatment Team Report

 

 

 

 

 

gAII e entTa f Eco t

 

 

 

Cmerh‘

Tumor Site

  

 

