 

DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY

PATIENT: — SPECIMEN: —

BIRTHDATE: AGE: Y SEX: F

—

MRN: _ Rm II: - PHYSICIAN:
—

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:

copy TO: [Cb a 3 1
Pro—Op Diagnosis “(g/ho (MM/Wt» jWM”ﬂ€ N05 933“”
Endometrial cancer . C34 I W

Post-Op Diagnosis 8 f” I‘davnbf ”/30,”

Same as above

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

The specimen is received in three formalin filled containers labeled
'—~

Container one is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" and
contains a 7.5 x 5.0 x 3.0 cm aggregate of yellow-tan fibrofatty
soft tissue. On palpation, multiple firm fatty possible lymph nodes
are identified ranging from 0.3 up to 3.0 cm in greatest dimension.
They are entirely submitted in cassettes lA—lK designated as
follows: IA-B - five whole possible lymph nodes in each cassette; 1C
— two whole possible lymph nodes; 10 - one whole possible bisected
lymph node; lE—F ~ one whole possible bisected lymph node; lG—K -
one whole possible lymph node. serially sectioned.

Container two is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node" and
contains a 6.5 x 6.0 x 3.5 cm aggregate of yellow~tan fibrofatty ‘
soft tissue. On palpation, multiple firm fatty possible lymph nodes
are identified ranging from 0.8 up to 5.0 cm in greatest dimension.
They are entirely submitted in cassettes 2A-2P designated as
follows: 2A - four whole possible lymph nodes; 28 - two whole
possible lymph nodes: 2c-D — one whole possible bisected lymph node
in each cassette; ZE-P — one whole possible lymph node, serially
sectioned.

Container three is additionally labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral
tubes and ovaries" and contains a 49 gram uterus with attached
cervix received with attached bilateral adnexa. The 3.4 cm in length
x 3.4 x 2.4 cm uterine corpus is Surfaced by pink—tan serosa. The
2.5 cm in length x 3.4 x 3.3 cm uterine cervix is partially surfaced
by pinkstan glistening ectocervical mucosa and features a central
0.6 cm patent os. The parametrial soft tissues are inked and taken
on face. The endOCervical canal is yellow—tan and mucoid with the

UUID: BZGESGFB- 3203- 4955- BCCC- SDEEBBZCBBZSd
III II IIIIIﬁTIGIﬁIﬁfIIﬁiﬁIKIIﬁTﬁ IIiI'iIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III III III
“IIIIIIIIIIIHI IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

l
llllllllllllllllll|||||||||||llllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

Page 2 of 3

usual folds. The triangular endometrium is remarkable for a pink-tan
friable fungating mass that invades 1.2 cm into a 1.8 cm thick
pink-tan fibrous myometrium. Normal-appearing ondometrium is
identified and averages 0.1 cm in thickness. No myometrial nodules
or lesions are identified.
The right fimbriated fallopian tube is 6.5 cm in length and ranges
from 0.5 to 0.7 cm in diameter. The attached yellow-tan lobulated
ovary is 3.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. It is bivalved to reveal a yellow-gray
fibrous cut surface with a gray—white corpus albicans.
The left fimbriated fallOpian tube is 5.5 cm in length and ranges
from 0.5 to 0.8 cm in diameter. A 0.6 cm uniloculated paratubal cyst
is present. It features a smooth inner lining and contains
yellow-tan gelatinous substance. The attached yellow-tan lobulated
ovary is 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. It is bivalved to reveal a yellow-gray
fibrous cut surface with a gray-white corpus albicans.
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 3A—30 designated
as follows: 3A — right parametria, on face; 38 - left parametria, on
face; 3C - anterior endoectocervix; 3D - posterior endoectocervix;
3E - anterior lower uterine segment; 3? - posterior lower uterine
segment; BG-H — full thickness anterior endomyometrium to include
tumor; 3I—J - full thickness posterior endomyometrium to include
tumor; 3K - normal-appearing endometrium; 3L - right fallopian tube;
3M - right ovary; 3N - left fallopian tube to include paratubal
cyst; 3O — left ovary.
Additionally, a yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted for
genomics research each labeled '
_
,Microscopic Description:
See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision:
Fat infiltration, negative for malignancy, 13 nodes.
Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision:
Fat infiltration, negative for malignancy, 9 nodes.
Uterus. tubes and ovaries, radical hysterectomy:
Tumor characteristics:
Histoloqic type: Endometrioid carcinoma.
Grade: 3-(high grade)
Location: Endometrial cavity and underlying myometrium.
Extent of invasion: Malignancy invades more than one-half of the
myometrium.
Maximal thickness of myometrial invasion is 12 mm into an 18 mm
thick myometrium.
Extension of tumor: Does not involve endocervix or lower uterine
segment.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical margin status:
Cervical margin: Negative.
Left parametrial margin: Negative.
Right parametrial margin: Negative.
Lymph node status: See parts 1 and 2
Number of lymph nodes examined: 22
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
Other significant findings:
Cervix:
Squamous metaplasia, negative for dysplasia.
Endocervix:

No pathologic diagnosis.

 

Page 3 of 3

Endometrium:
Residual background endometrium demonstrates cystic atrophy.
Myometrium:
Adenomyosis is present focally.
Uterine serosa:
No pathologic diagnosis.
Ovaries:
Atrophy, bilateral, advanced.
Fallopian tubes:
Benign paratubal cysts, bilateral. PAS 9 SPC-NP
Stage: pTlcNo
CPT:
Comments
No prior pathological material is available in our files for review
and comparison. Clinical correlation is suggested.
At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed by Dr. _ who concurs with the
diagnosis.
This report has been finalized at the — Campus.
<Sign Out Dr. Signature)

—. M.D.

