 
   

Criteria
Diagnosis Discrepancy

Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy
_____,_____

tiiPM Discrepancy
“Prior Malignancy History
ﬁll/Synchronous Primary N
(Ase i5 lcir:ic): .
‘Reviswer inltia|s_

  
  
  
 
  

 

 

       

Date Reviewed:

1..) r all“

  
 

Date of Procedure: ‘2
Date of Receipt:

2k Date of Report:
Account #2 -

1 Billing Type: INPATIENT

r" Additional Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8: History:

' year old female with right thyroid nodule status post FNA with suspicious cells.

Spgimens Submitted:

1: Delphian node and pretracheal tissue (fs)
2: Right thyroid lobe and isthmus (is)

 

i

PlgGIii'OSIS: t h l (f ) uum:maram-Ezac-Azas-mE-ssrazasae171
. e p an node and pre rac ea tissue 8 : TCGA'DJ‘AZQa‘BlA-PR Redacted
Lymph Node Dissection: iii ll iiiIiiiiililliliiililliilllili lillillillilliililllllli
gggggggmdggdesmm iiiliiiiiilliililiiliilliiliiiiliiiiiiiiililliiliiiii i mm"

 

iii iiliiiiiilililiilllliiililililillllliillliiliilillli”:

2. Right thyroid lobe and isthmus (is):
Tumor Type:

Papillary carcinoma, classical type with oncocytic features

Histologic Grade:
Weii differentiated

‘ Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed / c A , 0 , 3 /
t t x i? .9 a a 3
Tumor Necrosis: C WW1 ,0 A704 // M1 4 M”

Notldentiﬁed 5/?“ Mﬂd’ M; C73. 7

Other Tumor Features:
Necrotic and/or reactive changes

3/31/11
Tumor Location:
Right lobe

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 2.8 cm.

Tumor Encapsulation:
Completely surrounded

Capsular invasion:
No deﬁnite capsular invasion is noted

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
Not identiﬁed

 

 

Page 1 of 3

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

Non»Neopiastic Thyroid:
Exhibits chronic iymphocytic thyroiditis
Mild

Parathyroid Glands:
Not identiﬁed

 

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT i HAVE
REVlEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

-
“* Report Electronically Sﬁed Out *"

 

Sgeciai Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment
RECUT

Gross Descrigtlon:

1). The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Deiphlan node and pretrecheal tissue”. it consists of yellow fatty tissue measuring 2 x
0.7 x 0.3 cm. No deﬁnite lymph nodes are identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.

Summary of Sections:
FSC- frozen section control

2.) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "Right thyroid lobe and isthmus". it consists of an unoriented and previously incised
thyroid lobe measuring 5 x 3.3 x 2.3 cm and weighing 20.09 g. The incision opens into a solid. well-circumscribed, oval brown

mass measuring 2.8 x 2.6 x15 cm. The lobe is inked black. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is tan. A representative section of
the capsule to norrnai thyroid is submitted for frozen section. The remaining nodule to capsule is entirely submitted. TPS is
submitted. Approximately 90% of the specimen is submitted.

Summary of sections:

FSC - frozen section control

N - nodule and nodule to capsule, submitted entirely
RS -— representative sections of remaining thyroid

Summagy of Sections:

Part1: Delphian node and pretracheai tissue (fs)

Block Sect. Site P05
1 FSC 1

Part 2: Right thyroid lobe and isthmus (f3)

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 FSC 1
1 0 N 1 0

 

Page 2 of 3

 

Intraonerative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

1. Frozen section diagnosis: Delohian node and pretracheal tissue (is): Fatty lymph node. technically difﬁcult to cut. No definite
evidence of malignancy.

Permanent diagnosis: Same

2. Frozen section diagnosis: Right thyroid lobe and isthmus (is): Hurthle cell neoplasm. on representative section. (.
Permanent diagnosis: Same .

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

