Specimen Type:

1: Omentum + SPLEEN

2: PELVlC PERITONEUM DEPOSIT —
3: LEFT OVARY

4; Uterus, RIGHT OVARY,CERV1X, PERlTONEAL DEPOSIT - 168A 31 1951

5: BOWEL RESECTION
6: Colon resection TERMINAL lLEUM AND CAECUM

Ciinical Details:
Ovarian cancer.-plenectomy and right hemicolectomy for ovarian primary Stage 4
disease.

Macroscopic Description:
1) Omentum and spleen:
A spleen with attached peritoneum received, the spleen measures 10 x 6 x 3cm and the
attached peritoneum measures 30 x 19 x 20m. There is a capsular tear on the surface of the
spteen measuring 1cm in maximum dimension. The peritoneai fat shows multiple hard
nodular areas, query metastatic deposits, the largest area measures 6 x 4 x 2.50m. The cut
surface of these nodular areas reveals ﬁrm white solid areas. The cut surface of the spleen
shows spongy haemorrhagic area. The attached omentum on the anterior surface of the
spleen shows tumour deposits which abut the anterior surface of the spleen, these deposits
measure 1.5 x 1 x 0.80m.
BLOCKS: 1A-C: RS omentum: 1pc in each.

1D: Spleen with attached peritoneum with tumour deposit: 1,1p(-

2) Pelvic peritoneum deposit:
Two pieces of ﬁrm fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 2 x 1cm and 2.5 x 0.8 x 0.30m. Slicing
reveals a firm white deposit.
BLOCKS: 2A—C: Larger piece: 1pc in each.
2D: Smaller piece: 1,1pc-

3) Left ovary:
An ovary with attached tube, the fallopian tube measures 5cm length and 1.5cm in diameter.

The outer surface of the OVary is multinoduiar, there are also some fine papiilary projections
on the surface. The cut surface of the ovary shows soiid white firm areas. The ovary
measures 4.5 x 4.5 x 4cm. Also received in the same pot are multiple nodular pieces of tissue

together measuring 5 x 3 x 1cm. _

BLOCKS: 3A: RS ovary: 1,1pc.
33: RS ovary and papillary projection: 1,1pc.
SC: RS ovary and tube: 1,1pc. - - _
3D—E: RS ovary: 1pc in each. TEGR 31 1951

3F-G: Failopian tube: 1pc in each.
3H—K: RS separate nodular tissue: 1pc in each.

   

4) Uterus, right ovary, cervix and peritoneal deposit:
A specimen of uterus, cervix with attached right adnexa received, the uterus measures 8 x 4.5
x 3cm. The right failopian tube measures 5cm in length and 0.60m in diameter, the right ovary
measures 3.5 x 1.5 x 0.6cm. The outer surface of the uterus shows multiple noduiar deposits
on the fundal surface, the largest deposit measures 2.5 x 1.50m. Slicing reveals a silt like
uterine cavity. Slicing of the nodular deposit on the fundus of the uterus reveals a firm yeliow
area. Also received in the same pot are separate pieces of firm fibrofatty tissue measuring
together 7 x 6 x 2cm. One of the pieces show an attached vesicle measuring 1.2 x 0.80m.
The myometrial thickness is 1.40m and the endometriai thickness is 0.2cm. The anterior
surface of the uterus is painted biack and the posterior blue.
BLOCKS: 4A: Anterior cervix: 1,1pc.

4B: Posterior cervix: 1,1pc.

40: Lower uterine segment: 1,1pc.

4D: Endometrium and myometrium: 1,1pc.

4E—F: Nodular deposit on anterior wail: 1pc in each.

4G—H: Ovary: 1pc in each.

4J2 TS fallopian tube: 1,3pcs.

4K: Separate nodular deposit plus cyst: 1,1pc.

4L-M: Separate deposit: 1pc in each. NAE.

5) Large bowel:
A IOOp of segment of bowel measuring 11cm in iength and 7cm in diameter. There are

multiple nodular deposits on the outer surface of the wait, the iargest measuring 1cm in
diameter. Aiso noted is a firm deposit with attached peritoneat fat measuring 4 x 2 x 10m. The
mucosai surface appears normal.
BLOCKS: 5A—B: Resection margins: 1pc in each.

50—D: Noduiar deposit with bowel wall: 1pc in each.

5E: Noduiar deposit with attached fat: 1,1pc. -

6) Terminal iieum and caecum:

 

 

A segment of bowel measuring 8cm in length and tom in diameter. The mucosa appears
normal, no lesions or metastatic tumour deposits are seen. The bowel is stapled at both end.

No caecum is identified.

BLOCKS: 6A—B: Resection margins: tic in each.
Microscopic Description: - 133941—1951

60: Random TS: 1,2pcs.
1) OMENTUM & SPLEEN
The omental fat shows metastatic deposits of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, the
largest deposit being 6 cm in maximum diameter. The tumour focally invades the spleen from
the external surface. Angiovascular invasion is identified.

2) PELVlC PERITONEUM DEPOSlT

The peritoneal fat shows multiple metastatic deposits of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma
with necrosis and desmoplastic reaction. The largest deposit is 3.8 cm in maximum
dimension. A single lymph node extensively involved with tumour is seen, with
lymphovascular invasion.

3) LEFT OVARY
The left ovarian mass is a poorly differentiated, grade 3 serous adenocarcinoma, extensively
replacing the ovary and the attached fallopian tube.

The tumour is composed of predominantly solid sheets of highly atypical epithelial cells with
focal papillary formations. Frequent atypical mitoses and necrosis are present. Occasional
calcification are noted. The tumour extends to the adherent omental fat tissue with marked
desmoplastic reaction.

4) UTERUS, RlGl—lT OVARY, CERVlX & PERlTONEAL DEPOSIT
The uterus shows multiple deposits of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading the
uterine wall from the external surface.

The endometrium is atrophic. Multiple foci of adenomyosis are noted in the uterus. The cervix
shows Nabothian cyst, but does not show involvement by tumour. The right ovary and
fallopian tube are intact but loose deposits of tumour are identified on the outer surface,
partially as detached fragments.

5) LARGE BOWEL
The large bowel shows multiple deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma,
invading the muscularis propria and reaching the submucosa.

The resection margins are free from tumour.

6) TERMlNAL ILEUM & CAECUM
The small bowel shows no evidence of metastatic malignancy. The resection margins are free
from tumour.

 

 

 

 

Finai Diagnosis:
LEFT OVARY: POORLY DIFFERENTIATED SEROUS ADENOCARCINOMA METASTATIC

TO OMENTUM, SPLEEN, UTERlNE SEROSA, MYOMETRIUM AND BOWEL

STAGE 30

I reel—314951

 

Additional PathologistisllBMstsi

ProcedureslAddenda:

lmmunocytochemistry Date Ordered:
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

 

 

Interpretation

The findings are consistent with serous papillary adenocarcinoma.

Results-Comments

Where viable and well preserved the tumour cells reactly strongly with ER, WT1 and p53
antisera. PgR is negative

 

