 

Result Name Results Units Reference Range

17 Surgicai Pathoto 0:
PreHOp Diagnosis
Left renal mass
Post—Op Diagnosis
Same

Clinical History
Nothing dictated

Gross Description:
Received in a single container labelem~ left
kidney" is a 730 gram left nephrectom ly partially

Covered by a moderate amount of perinephric adipose tissue and faced
anteriorly by a minimal amount of Gerota's fascia. The specimen as
received measures 20.? x 12.6 x 7.5 cm. The margins of resection
include 2.8 cm of grossly patent renal artery, 3.6 cm of grossly
patent renal vein, and 9.3 cm of grossly patent ureter. The.capsule
strips with ease to reveal an organ measuring 14,2 x 7.1 x 5.8 cm.
The cortex is slightly granular, lobulated, red brown. Noted on the
posterior lateral aspect in the mid region of the specimen is a 4.0 x
3.6 x 1.3 cm gray tan partially sectioned plague—like lesion. ‘
Sectioning this lesion reveals a nodular lesion measuring 3.5 x 3.0 x
3.0 cm. This has a thin intact gray white capsule and has a
lobulated fleshy focally hemorrhagic focally hyalinized tan pink to
yellow cut surface. This lesion slightly compresses the surrounding
parenchyma and does not grossly appear to extend into it. The
remaining renal parenchyma has a cortex measuring up to 0.9 cm which
is slightly granular red brown. The cortical medullary junction is
poorly defined. The medulla is red brown with sharp papillae. The
calices and pelvis are lined by smooth gray white mucosa extending
into the ureter. No additional gross lesions are identified. Within
the surrounding adipose tissue there are,no lesions or nodules. Also
received ' container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled m Representative sections are submitted labeled
as follows: A h vascular and ureteral margins, B through F -
representative lesion and surrounding tissue, G and H -

ﬂaws grossly uninvolved parenchyma.

icroscopic Description:

The slides are reviewed labele- ,
Final Diagnosis

Left kidney:
Tumor characteristics:

  

l. Histologic type: Renal cell Carcinoma, clear cell type

2. Site: Neoplasm is identified on the posterior lateral aspect in
the mid region of the kidney. .

3. Size: 3.5 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm

4. Macroscopic extent of tumor: Neoplasm appears to be limited to

the kidney.

 

 

5. Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 2/4

6. Lymphovascular space invasion: Extensive perivascular neoplasm
is identified but no intraluminal tumor is seen.

7. Transcapsular invasion: No

8. Renal vein invasion: No

9. Vans caval invasion: Not resected

10. Adrenal gland: Not identified
Surgical margin status:

1. Soft tissue margins: Negative
2. Ureteral margin: Negative
3. Vascular margins: Negative

Other significant findings:
1. Focal glomerulosclerosis,
2. Focal nephrocalcinosis.

Stage:

pTla, Nx, Mx - -

CPT: 88307

Comments

 

 

