UUID: 977CBF13-A474-4195-ADBS-AD0CCD1RDZeBF9ac
TCGA- X6- -A7ND- 61A- PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIeIIIIIIIIIEd
IIII IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIII

IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
—-SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CON SULTA‘I10N— (Accession

Sums: Final result
Results

Colledion Information
Sgswumend

     

 

técn [‘(zﬁe {Inﬂecmm 'i

 

(5)1103me {31;

 

33:30:31, ){izm

 

Component Results
Cowmnem
DIAGNOSIS

A. Soft tissue, leg, right, excision:

High grade leicxwosarcoma, 5 an, margin not i..vclved (a 1 cm from
the deep margin) .

3. 5oz: tissue, edditzonel lower margins, excision: X

Benign ribrcadipose tissue and skeletal muscle. 8390 ‘3
C. Soft tissue, additionel deep margin, excision: A/ti NOS

Benign tibroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle.
e; cm “Vent

Date reported: Pathologist (Electronic Signature)

‘ ‘ 940 )0/10/13
bdiagnosed with high grade leiomyosarcoma of right leg.

TISSUE SUMT‘I'BD

Was

A. Right leg sarcoma long stitch superior short stitch inferior two
stitch anterior
3.

Additional lower margin stitch marks true margin
C. Additional deep nergin
GROSS

A. Received fresh 1:! a container labeled with the ratient's name,

hospital number and "Right leg sarcoma long stitch superior short stit~h
interior two stitch anterior" is s 22. 3 x 7. x 5.3 cm avoid skin ellipse
and subcutaneous tissue excision. A low; stitch denotes superior, a short
stitch interior, and double stitch anterior. It e long stitch is
redesignated as 12 o'clock, the short stitch es 6 o'clock, and the double
stitch as 9 o'clock. The 12 to 3 to 6 o‘clock margin is inked blue, the 6
to 9 to 12 o'clock margin is inked green, and the deep margin is inked
black. Section '..g reveals an 8.0 x 6.0 x 3.5 cm gr-H—teu, multincdular,
solid mass with central hemorrk cm from the deep

“mag: and necrosis, (2
margin, 1.0 cm from the 6 o'clock margin, 2.2 ext from t..e 9 o' clock
and 3.1 tn:- from the 12 o 'clock

margin, 1.5 cm I on: t? .e 3 o' clock margin,

margin. Representative sections submtted as follows: A1, nearest 12
o'clock margin; A2, tumor with nearest 3 o'clock margin; A3, turner with
nearest 6 c 'clcck margin; :14, tumor with nearest '3 :1; A5,

- o'clock margi
section or tumor with

 
 

amor wit... nearest deep margin; A6, representative
hemorrhagic and necrotic too; and overlying skin. A photograph is taken
for the file and emailed to the surgeon. 3. Received in formalin in A
container labeled with the patient's name, hospital number arid "Additional
lower margin stitch marks true margin" is a 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.3 cm red—ten to
yellow soft tissue fragment.

A stitch denotes the new margin and this
area. is inked blue.

The remainder of the specimen is inked green. The
specimen is serially sectioned perpendicular to the new margin and
submitted in 51. C. Received in formalin in a container labeled with the
patient's name, hospital amber and "additior al deep margin" is a 1. 5 cm

in greatest dimension "ellow—pic k to red sort tissue traqment. Entirely
submitted in C1.

MICROSCOPIC

S‘C. 3116105651316 examination performed and 5‘ Jp‘DG’BS Che diagnosis.

I have personally reviewed the slides end report for this case.

--. SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT— (Acceulon

Result

Collection lnlormalion

Elﬂemmenﬁ Collection Gate Coélwrsqn Tm?

Component Results
Ccmwnerzt

SUPPL REPORT

 

Q

:lirscle-j E5,-

Ehe purpose of this amended report 1! be insert: the cancer synaptic an
MCC staging terms. The diagnosis xemslns otherwise unchanged.

Tumor microscopic: descziption: Long,

shaped

plecmozphism and
ﬁzstclcqic type:
Histolcqic grade:

Leiomycsezcema .
High grade.

zntezsectinq tascicles at spindle
ems: cells with nuclear

hypezchzcmasle.

Mitetic rate (per 23 hpf @ (OK): >25 mitotic f1gures.

Extent of necrosis:
Vascular invasion: Nat :Ldemzitied.
Intimacery latiltzace:
Site and depth:

Maximal dimenszon: 5.5 cm.

Minimal discancels) to reseccicn margins:

deep

Multifccel necrosis present KEEN] .

No: identitled.
Right: thigh, Subcutaneous

9.1 m tram nearest (deep)
resection marqzn

Character at lesmnal margin: There is a rescxal plane defining the
margin.

E‘udence at pre—exiscan benign lessen: ‘59: identified.

Lymph ncdes: {lac applleable.
DEFINITIONS

Patholocic Primary fume! (I)

nor T2a Superfzcial same: (I)
Recicnal Lymph blades {N}

X NX

Reqicnal lymph nodes cannot be assessed

The pactclcgz: stage based on available pazheloqie material is: TEA, N:
The cptnual tlssue hlcsk to: molecular studies an neoplasm as A6

1.: new

 

Dace reported:

Patient Release Status.
This result rs not viewable byrha patient.

Lab and Collectian
:2 P M NTA

Result Hlslory
SUPPLEMENTAL REF’CJRT-w (Order a

Result Entered Bv

R ' rder

Pacheloq1sc (Electronic Signature)

Status: Final result

 

 

- at; and Cgllgctign lnformaxran

 

Order Result History Repon

 

Lab information

Reviewed by List

 

  
  
 
 
   

Ernerin

Dragnosrs GISCIEI‘MDEV

T‘nmarv Tumor Sue Drscrepancv
-,—————-—-

_..._

HIPM Dlscrcpancv

ﬁrur M1lignanry Hrstory

I...»

