 

- - BD1FB62SD
UUID:8A3|JCF69-E98C-47Bi-BDEB 93C dacted

GA-PB-ASTOvOl PR Re
T‘ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll - Zbove
illlllllllll‘llllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIII||||||lI||||||||||||IIII (t, (mm/03

IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllll

@70/3
$5311 «3671mm 5% K745
CASE: RECEIVED: 0.04, ﬂ
9%) s/a/Is
CLINICAL DATA:
Right mandibular composite neck dissection, free ﬂap. Diagnosis: FOM carcinoma.
GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A) Received fresh designated ". .., composite resection and right neck dissection” is a 10 x 10 x

6 cm specimen consisting of a right mandible consisting of the ramus and body with the posterior
and superior aspect of the ramus surgically transected (the ramus measures 3.6 cm IS). The
anterior mandible is intact and a portion of the mental protuberance is present just past the
midline. There is a ﬁrm irregular nodular mass (5.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm) in the right ﬂoor of the
mouth, invading into the mandible and possibly extending into the surrounding soft tissue.
Laterally the mandible is covered by muscle, ﬁbroadipose tissue and an elliptical portion of skin
(6 x 3.5 cm) with a central defect measuring 1 x 0.2 cm. The inferior margin of the specimen
consists of skeletal muscle (digastric muscle) and there is an inferior collection of ﬁbroadipose
tissue measuring 8 x 5.5 x 1 cm on the right and extending to the left side a collection of
ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 5 x 1 x 0.3 cm. The anterior right lateral soft tissue margin is
inked blue and representative sections are taken for intraoperative frozen section examination.
There are several designating sutures in this specimen. A double long designates right level III;
a double short designates right level I; a single short designates left level I. The double long and
short sutures are present in the previously described ﬁbroadipose tissue on the right side and the
single suture is present on the aggregate of ﬁbroadipose tissue extending to left aspect. The
specimen is inked as follows: lateral - blue; inferior black; posterior - orange; anterior — yellow;
superior - green. The lesion appears to be within 0.5 cm of the inked lateral blue margin, 0.3 cm
of the inked green superior margin, 0.8 cm of the inked orange posterior margin, 0.5 cm of the
inferior black inked margin and free of the anterior yellow inked margin. Cross sections
demonstrate a submandibular gland at level I with no suspicious nodularities. Multiple potential
lymph nodes are identiﬁed in right level II with the single largest potential node measuring 2 cm
in maximum dimension. Multiple potential lymph nodes are dissected from right level III, the
largest of which measures 0.5 cm in maximum dimension. Dissection of left level I segment
demonstrates multiple potential lymph nodes, the largest of which measures 1 cm in maximum
dimension. Cassette index: AF Sl-2 - freeze thaw sections of right lateral margin; A3-A5 -
representative sections of lateral margin; A6 - representative section of cutaneous fragment with
central defect; A7-A8 - composite section extending from the superior green inked margin, to
the lateral blue inked margin, to skin, to the lateral inferior inked black margin; AlO-All -
representative sections of superior and posterior margins; A12-A13 - inferior medial soft tissue
margin; Al4-Al6 - representative sections of submandibular gland at level I; A17-A20 - right
level II nodes: A17 — one potential lymph node bisected; A18 - three potential lymph nodes, the

largest differentially inked and bisected; A19 ~ one potential lymph node bisected; A20 - two
potential lymph nodes bisected, with one differentially inked; A21 — seven potential lymph nodes
from right segment III; A22-A23 - segment I left neck, two potential nodes per cassette.

B) Received fresh designated "..., right anterior buccal margin" is a 2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm fragment
of tissue, which is inked blue and submitted in entirety for frozen section examination. The
specimen is subsequently submitted in cassette B/CFSl.

_ C) Received fresh designated "..., right posterior buccal margin" is a l x 0.3 x 0.2 cm tan
fragment of tissue with skin which is inked black and submitted in entirety for frozen section
examination. The specimen is subsequently submitted in cassette B/CFSl.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
AFS: Carcinoma approaches up to 0.4 cm of the soft tissue margin.
B/CFS: No deﬁnite invasive carcinoma identiﬁed; evaluation limited by cautery and orientation.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

A) Mandible, right, composite resection and neck, right, dissection:

Squamous cell carcinoma, well to moderately differentiated, with the following features:

1. Size: 5.5 xx 3.5 x 3.5 cm

2. Carcinoma is deeply invasive and invades through cortical bone and extends into skeletal
muscle in the ﬂoor of the mouth.

3. Free of the inked soft tissue margins; carcinoma measures 0.3 cm from the closest inked
inferior margin

4. Bony margin submitted for decalcifrcation, results will be reported in an addendum.
Right neck dissection:

Right level I - one lymph node with no evidence of carcinoma (0/1).

Right level II - six lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma (0/6).

Right level III - seven lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma (0/7).

Left level I lymph nodes - four lymph nodes with no evidence of carcinoma (0/4).

995793?"

7. Skin with ulceration and underlying suppurative inﬂammation in the dermis and
subcutaneous tissue consistent with abcess and sinus tract.

8. Minimum pathologic staging: pT4a, pNO, pMX (AJCC, 6th edition, 2002).

B) Right anterior buccal margin, excision: Squamous mucosa with underlying ﬁbroadipose
tissue and skeletal muscle; no carcinoma is identiﬁed.

C) Right posterior buccal margin, excision: Squamous mucosa with underlying ﬂbroadipose
tissue with ﬁbrosis and skeletal muscle; no carcinoma identiﬁed.

 

 

 

Procedures used to establish the diagnosis:
Routine

ADDENDUM REASON:

This addendum is issued to report the results of the bony margins which were submitted for
decalciﬁcation prior to processing.

ADDENDUM GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A) Cassette index: A24 - en face posterior margin; A25-26 - composite section of mass
extending into bone and associated black-inked margin; A27 - en face anterior margin;

ADDENDUM COMMENT:

A) The bony margins are free of involvement by carcinoma. Two additional level I lymph
nodes with no evidence of carcinoma. The ﬁnal diagnosis and pathologic staging above based
on the information in this report remains unchanged.

 

