Wx.‘aaq.,.,_r--I" ' ‘

{$3

      

’ .7 , “2.1.4:.- J_..‘.Ja‘».>_.. me: ,e. Mantamwb wymmw ;~o)¢-‘u<mb“--V,L:‘“M;w at, ”3.31., “ztzmwéswi.

((3 <0 ' .3
0:41wa WMvMI «gr-14M "w W X . R10,-
. mm] '3 4”

5'5f'ti WWW,“ C,5'Lf.l II/}5//u

UUID : lAAFFIﬂ-‘SD!-4F4F-A283-262§A641003A

TceA-As-AeaM-eu-pk Redm‘ited

{IIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEIIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIllll
lllllllllllllllllll

 

I ll llllllllllllllllllll|H||||| ' "
||l|| IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Ordering MD; —

Copies To:

Age/hem Mammal“.

Location

Date of Procedu
Date Received: ;

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED: A. LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE & OVARY, B. RIGHT TUBE & OVARY, C. UTERUS+ CERVIX, D. RIGHT
COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE, E. RIGHT PELVIC‘ LYMPH NODE, F. LEFT COMMON lLlAC LYMPH NODE, G, LEFI‘ PELVIC
LYMPH NODE, H. OMENTUM NO I, I. OMENTUM NO 2, J. OMENTUM NO 3

DIAGNOSIS:
A. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

Ovary with hemorrhagic cystic corpus luteum and serosal adhesions with associated
reactive mesothelial proliferation

Fallopian tube without pathologic changes

No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

B. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY:

Ovary with cystic epithelial inclusions and involuting corpus luteum/early albicans, and
serosal adhesions, some with associated reactive mesothelial proliferation

Fallopian tube with paratubal cyst lined by benign serous epithelium (hydatid of
Morgagni)

No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

C. UTERUS, TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY:

Primary uterine adenocarcinoma,endgmetadoiytype with focal associated squamous

changes, F [(39 gradehuclear grade mostly 2 prulation of tumells

”MEWS “

- ' Endometrium of uterine fundus and uterine corpus is extensively involved by
adenocarcinoma

- Tumor also extends into the lower uterine segment

~ In the uterus, the tumor partially replaces endometrial polyp in a few areas

- Myometrial invasion by carcinoma is present and involves less than 50% ( inner
third of the muscular uterine wall)

— No lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by carcinoma identiﬁed

- No extension of tumor into cervix

- Vaginal cuff is free of tumor

- Parametrial tissues are tumor free

— Proximal intrauterine and/or paracornual portion of left fallopian tube with
acute and chronic inﬂammation, epithelial hyperplasia, and atypia of uncertain
significance

Non-neoplastic endometrium exhibits hyperplastic features, simple and complex types

with associated atypia

Single uterine leiomyoma

Serosal adhesions

Patient Case(s):

Local

Page I 0f4

.3121. sizakalsimsawa t. L'tszgtagt‘ Tue . Jana; v... .. _ :1 .. .2». '_ , . a l- ,

“mango; '. ~'

 

 

 

 

. PAW: —

- Cervix with chronic and mild acute inflammation, focal changes suggestive of prior
curettage, squamous metaplasia, reactive epithelial changes, endocervical tunnel clusters
and nabothian cysts

- Vaginal cuff mucosa with chronic inﬂammation

D. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
- One reactive lymph node
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1)

E. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT PELVIC, EXCISION:
— One reactive lymph node
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/])

F. SOFT TISSUE, DESIGNATED "LYMPH NODE", LEFT COMMON ILIAC, EXCISION:
- Adipose tissue and scant fibrous tissue
- No lymph node identiﬁed
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma

G. LYMPH NODES, LEFT PELVIC, EXCISION:
- Four reactive lymph nodes
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/4)

H-J. OMENTUM "#1, #2, #3", PARTIAL OMENTECTOMY:
- Adhesions, foci of ﬁbrosis, recent hemorrhages, and/or reactive mesothelial proliferation
- No evidence of metastatic carcinoma ‘

COMMENT: The preliminary pathologic ﬁndings were reported to the ofﬁce of Dr. on

HISTORY: Not provided

MICROSCOPIC: See diagnosis.

SPECIAL STUDIES: H&E-stained step sections (C13 x2)
IMMUNOSTAINS: None

GROSS:

A. LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "left fallopian tube and ovary", and received in formalin is a salpingo-
oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is about 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm and has an undulated tan to pink-tan serosal surface
with several adhesions. Cut surfaces of the ovary are remarkable for a 1.3 cm diameter amber corpus luteum cyst
that contains bloody ﬂuid. The adjacent fallopian tube has ﬁmbria at one end, is 5.0 cm long, and ranges from
about 0.3 to 0.6 cm in diameter. The fallopian tube has a pink-tan congested serosal surface and a patent lumen that
measures up to 0.2 cm in diameter. The ovary and fallopian tube appear grossly free of metastatic tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.

A1. Ovary ~ 1

A2. Fallopian tube - 2

B. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "right tube and ovary", and received in formalin is a salpingo-
oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is 2.7 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. The ovary has a tan, focally bloodied external surface
that is generally smooth except for a few tiny adhesions. Cut surfaces of the ovary reveal a peripheral rim of
yellow—tan cortical stroma, several corpora albicantia, and a minute cystic space. The adjacent fallopian tube has
ﬁmbria at one end, is about 5.0 cm long, ranges from 0.5 to 0.6 cm in diameter and has a somewhat congested pink-

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

s PATH #: _

red serosal surface. There is a 1.5 cm diameter clear ﬂuid-ﬁlled thin-walled translucent paratubal cyst attached to
the fallopian tube near the ﬁmbriated end. Elsewhere the serosal surface of the fallopian tube is pink-tan and
relatively smooth. Cross sections of the fallopian tube reveal a stellate patent lumen, about 0.2 cm in maximum
dimension. The ovary and fallopian tube appear grossly free of metastatic tumor.

Representative sections are submitted.

B1. Ovary - 1

BZ. Fallopian tube and paratubal cyst — 2

C. UTERUS AND CERVIX _
Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "uterus and cervix", and received in formalin is a 200 gram uterus which as
been previously incised. The uterus is symmetric. The uterus measures about 1 1.0 cm from fundus to ectocervix,
5.0 cm from comu to coma, and up to 5.0 cm from the anterior surface to the posterior surface. The serosal surface
is tan-pink and generally smooth except for a few tiny adhesions. The cervix is about 3.0 cm long and up to 3.2 cm
in diameter in the ectocervical region. Attached to the cervix, there is an up to 0.6 cm long cuff of grossly
unremarkable pink-tan vaginal mucosa. The mucosa lining the eetocervix is pink-tan and smooth. The external
cervical 05 is 0.5 cm in diameter and patent. The cervical transformation zone is distinct. The endocervieal canal is
about 2.0 cm long and lined by tan rugose mucosa. Cut sections of the cervix reveal several mucus—ﬁlled cysts
ranging from about 0.1 to 1.0 cm in maximum dimension. The cervix appears grossly free of tumor. The
endometrial cavity is about 6.0 cm long and up to 5.0 cm in width. The endometrium of the uterine fundus and
uterine corpus show diffuse involvement by tumor. Tumor also extends into the lower uterine segment. The tumor
is soft, and tan and focally hemorrhagic. Cut sections of the uterus reveal relatively superficial myometrial invasion
involving less than one-third of the uterine wall thickness. The uninvolved myometrium is pink-tan and semiﬁrm.
The muscular uterine wall has a maximum thickness of about 2.5 cm. Within the uterus there is a single sharply
circumscribed intramural leiomyoma that is about 1.3 cm in diameter and has a cut surface composed of firm solid
tan—white whorled tissue without grossly evident areas of hemorrhage or necrosis. Attached to the uterus, there are
parametrial soﬁ tissues that measure up to about 1.0 cm in width on the right side and up to about 0.5 cm in width
on the left side. The parametrial tissues are focally hemorrhagic, but appear grossly free of tumor.

Representative sections are submitted.

C1. Anterior cervix - 1

C2. Posterior cervix and vaginal cuff - 1
C3. Anterior lower uterine segment - 1
C4. Posterior lower uterine segment - 1
C5. Anterior lower uterine corpus — 1
C6. Posterior lower uterine corpus — 1
C7. Anterior mid uterine corpus ~ 1

C8. Posterior mid uterine corpus — 1

C9. Anterior uterine fundus — 1

C10. Posterior uterine fundus - 1
C11. Leiomyoma - 1

C12. Right parametrial tissues - 1
C13. Leﬂ parametrial tissues - 2

D. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE
Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "right common iliac lymph node", and received in formalin are two
portions of soft yellow fatty tissue, each of which is about 1.5 cm in diameter. Within one of the aggregates of fatty

tissue, there is a single 1.0 cm diameter semisoft tan lymph node. The lymph node is bisected. The entire specimen
is embedded.

D1. One bisected lymph node and fat - 3

E. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "right pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm
portion of soft yellow adipose tissue within which there is embedded a single semisoft tan lymph node that
measures about 2.0 cm in maximum dimension. The lymph node is sectioned. The entire specimen is embedded.
El. One sectioned lymph node and fat — 2

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Page 3 of4

 

 

 

 

mm a _

F. LEFT COMMON ILIAC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "left common iliac lymph node", and received in formalin is are two
portions of soﬁ tan-yellow fibroadipose tissue, measuring about 1.0 cm and 2.5 cm in maximum dimension. No
lymph nodes or tumor are evident on gross inspection of the specimen.

Entirely submitted.

F l. 2

G. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "left pelvic lymph node", and received in formalin are two portions of soft,
focally hemorrhagic yellow adipose tissue, within which there are embedded several semisoft tan lymph nodes. The
lymph nodes range from about 0.3 to 1.2 cm in maximum dimensions. The larger lymph node is bisected prior to
embedding. The lymph nodes are entirely embedded along with some of the perinodal fat.

G1. Four lymph nodes (largest bisected) and fat - 3

H. OMENTUM #1

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "omentum #1", and received in formalin is a 4.5 x 3.5 x 0.5 cm portion of
soft tan-yellow lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor. A representative section is submitted.

H1. 1

I. OMENTUM #2
Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "omentum #2", and received in formalin is a 5.0 x 2.5 x 0.7 cm portion of

soﬁ tan—yellow lobulated omental fat that appears grossly free of tumor. A representative section is submitted.
11. 1

J. OMENTUM #3

Labeled with the patient’s name, labeled "omentum #3", and received in formalin is a 4.0 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm portions of
soft yellow focally hemorrhagic lobulated omental fat with some intervening ﬁbrous tissue. No gross tumor is seen.
Representative sections are submitted.

J1. 2

Gross dictated by

I have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
‘ _ Electronically Signet

 
  
  
  
    

.viteria
)iagnosls Burlap anry i

:rirnarylmnor SileBiSC’evanq
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT "PM Discrepancy “"‘“
Page 4 OH L'l’wﬂwncv ”ism—Wx
Myncmoncu 'r v
simmer III. «
.cvlewerlmti I!

 

 

 

     
    

