 

 

   

Clinical Dia nosis & Histo E: CGA”BP"4974

Sgecimens Submitted:
1: SP: Left kidney; nephreciomy:-

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Left kidney; nephrectomy;-
Tumor Type:
Renal celi carcinoma - Comentional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade: ‘
Nuclear grade iIIIV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 55 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Not identified '

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremerkeble

Adrenal Giand:
Not identified

Lymph Nodes: 1
Number of metastatic nodes:0
Number of nodes examined:3

Staging for renal cell carcinorﬁafoncocymme:
pT‘i Tumor <= Tut) cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

 

IATTEST TI‘IAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPOﬁT.

 

Page i of 2

 

 

 

 

 

Gross Descrigtion:

i).The specimen is received fresh labeled "Leii kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter, renal vessels and perinephn‘c
fat Weighing 220 g in total. The kidney measures 14 x 6.0 x 5.0 cm. The attached ureter measures 4.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm
in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 0.9 cm in length and 1.0 cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter margins are
grossly unremarkable. An adrenal gland is not identifed. The kidney is inked black and bivalved to reveal a well-circumscribed,
round, hemorrhagic bright orangegtumor measuring 5.5 x 5.5 x 5.0 cm. The tumor is located in the cortex of the iowar pole. Pelvis is
not grossly involved by tumor. The tumor impinges on the renal Vein and sinus fat. but does not show any gross invasion and
does not extend through the capsule of the kidney. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown
parenchyma, with a well-deﬁned cortico-medullary junction. The cortex measures 2.0 cm and the caiyces appear normal. on
complete opening of the ureter. renal pelvis. and collecting ducts, they show grossly unremarkable white-tan mucosa . Several
lymph nodes are identiﬁed in the perinephric fat. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sectionsthe

specimen is photographed.

Summary of sections:

UM « ureteral and vessel margins
VM-vessel margins

PNF—— tumor with perinephric fat
TSF -— tumor with sinus lat

'FK -- tumor with adjacent kidney
TV~lumor with adjacent vessel
PUP-fat, upper pole

RS -- representative sections kidney
LN-lymph nodes 3
TPVF— Tumor to peripeivic lat

Summary of Sections:

Part 1: SP: Left kidney; nephrectomy;-
Block Sect. Site P03
1 iup 1

i in 1

2 pnf 2

1 re 1

2 lk 2

1 tpvf 1

2 tv 2

'i um 'l

’I vm 1

 

Page 2 of 2 I END OF REPORT

 

