/CA——0 ,3

644m mm, 14%] My; M 1"“
3%; W No; <50? ,4!

uu:u:cce33 - - - -
caA523.’Zz‘§11?fA5i‘k1 OSFHWED[linegdacted
I‘ll III

"I IIHHllllﬂlllllllﬂllllllllHlllllllllﬂllllllllllll l

l
l lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllHlIIHIHIIHIIIHIHIHIHII llilﬂlilllllllllﬂllllllliinﬁll”!

II
II

I
l
. I”

   

Date Coll:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast mass Long stitch anterior, short stitch superior

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer
CLINICAL HISTORY: year-old white female with breast cancer
POST—OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh labeled "left axillary sentinel nodes"
are two slightly rubbery tan—white—pink tissues in keeping
with lymph nodes measuring 0.6 and 1.0 cm. in greatest dimension.
The specimens are bisected and entirely submitted independently in
two blocks (one bisected tissue per cassette).

B. Received fresh within a TranSpec container labeled

"left breast mass" is a 7.3 cm. (medial to lateral) x 6.5
cm. (superior to inferior) x 3.7 cm. (anterior to posterior), soft,
lobulated tan gold—white portion of fibroadipose tissue with two
sutures as stated previously. The margins are inked as follows:
Anterior — blue, posterior — black, superior — green, and inferior
orange. The specimen is sectioned from medial to lateral. There is
a central, moderately well—circumscribed, 3.2 cm. (medial to
lateral) x 2.5 cm. (superior to inferior) x 2.4 cm. (anterior to
posterior), firm tan white tumor mass with several central
associated cylindrical tan white structures in keeping with cyte of
prior needle core biopsy. A portion of tumor and a portion of
normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The tumor appears to focally extend to within 0.3 cm. of both the
anterior and posterior inked margins. The cut surfaces throughout
the remainder of the specimen consist predominantly of glistening
lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue with a minimal amount of
interspersed dense tan—white fibrous tissue. No additional
abnormality is noted. Representative sections are submitted in a
sequential manner from medial to lateral in 10 blocks as labeled.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — Representative perpendicular sections medial
margin cap; 2—9 sequential sections; 10 - representative
perpendicular sections lateral margin cap.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Microscopic examination involved the evaluation of the
four H&E stained sections of each of the tissue blocks.
Also pan cytokeratin AEl/AE3 immunohistochemical stains were
evaluated of each tissue block and no metastatic tumor was
identified in any of the examined sections (0/2) (snpNO).
B. Microscopic examination of the left breast lumpectomy
specimen reveals:

JIM/3

ir/m/n

Invasive Carcinoma: Present.
Histologic type: Infiltrating ductal.
Histologic grade: Elston‘s SBR grade 2.
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 2
Nuclear score: 2
Mitotic score: 2

Greatest dimension (pT): 3.2 cm. in greatest dimension (pT2).
Specimen margins: The resection margins are negative for
carcinoma with the closest resection margins being superior and
anterior where invasive tumor is 2 mm. from the resection
margin. Tumor is 3 mm from the posterior resection margin.
Vessel invasion: Not identified.
Calcification: Present.
Ductal carcinoma in situ: Present.
Histologic pattern: Solid with cancerization of lobules.
Nuclear grade: High grade.
Central necrosis: Absent.
% DCIS of total tumor (if mixed): Less than 10%.
Extensive intraductal component (present/absent): Absent.
Specimen margins: DCIS is 2 mm from the anterior and superior
margins and 3 mm from the posterior margin.
Calcification: not identified.
Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrosis, apocrine metaplasia
and microcysts with sclerosing adenosis.
Prognostic markers- ”or“ been reported previously on the core

biopsy see
4x2, 20x1

DIAGNOSIS
A. Left axillary sentinel lymph nodes, biopsy:
.,T o lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/2).
B. Left breast, lumpectomy:
Winona ,

3.2 cm.
Associated high grade solid ductal carcinoma in—situ.

Invasive and in—situ carcinoma are 2 mm from the resection

margins designated superior and anterior and 3 mm from the
resection margin designated posterior.

No lymphovascular space invasion identified.

See microscopic description.

Elston's SBR grade 2, tumor size

(Eleccronic Signature)

—~— End Of Report --—

 
 

Criteria

   

 

‘HIIAA
Pnur

  
  

Cassi:

   
  
 
 

Diagnosis Discrepancy

 

 
 
   
   

Reviewu lniﬂais

