UUID: 5A4484BE- 8478- 413C- 8C37- 2F04594R7AeC3Ac
TCGA- UZ- ABPQ -01A- PR

1

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

    

    
 

Patient Nam" Accession #:
Med. Rec. #: Visit# :P Service Date:
DOB: Sex. ale Received:
Soc. Sec. #: Location: Client:
Physician(s):—

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Kidney, right, nephrectomy: Papillary renal cell carcinoma (9.2 cm), Fulmnan
grade 3; see comment.

3. "Retrocaval lymph node," excision:

l. Papillary renal cell carcinoma (5.8 cm), apparently replacing a lymph
node.

2. Adrenal gland with no signiﬁcant pathologlc abnormality, no tumor
resent.
P ICED-O .3
COMMENT:

Kidney Tumor Synoptic Comment a / ad MM
-Hietologic type: Renal cell carcinoma, papillary. (2.520; /3 \

made: Fuhrman grade 3. g) C} L/ Q
-llaximum tumor diameter: 9.2 cm. ﬂigé\ .
6!“ within kidney: Mid kidney. Del/£2: NO g 6
-Renal pelvis: Normal.

-Ureter: Normal.

-Rennl sinus: ’l‘umor invades renal sinus.

Jillar renal vein: Normal, no tumor.

«Intrannnl veins and lymphatics: Normal, no tumor.
-Adrenal gland: Normal.

apeulelperirenel fat: Tumor does not penetrate capsule.

-Hllar lymph nodes (number positive] number of nodes): 0/0. We searched for hilar lymph nodes. but
none were identiﬁed.

Junction margins: Negative.

ol’ronlmity to nearest margin: 0.25 cm from the renal capsule and overlying perirenal adipose tissue.
Me: p'l'2N lMx.

-Mditlonal comments: The kidney tumor demonstrates a papillary architecture throughout, with presence
of foam cells focally. Papillary renal cell carcinomas are divided into grades 1 and 2 based on morphologic
features. This tumor contains some features of type 1. including cuboidal cells with small nuclei and
presence of foam cells. Other areas demonstrate type 2 features, with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm,

.- W.

 

stratiﬁcation, and larger nuclei. Overall, this tumor would be classiﬁed as a more aggressive papillary renal

cell carcinoma type 2. A few feel with clear cells are present. A recent study showed that papillary renal cell
carcinomas which showed extensive clear cell change [>75%) had cytogenetic abnormalities that were
characteristic of conventional clear cell carcinomas rather than papillary renal cell carcinomas. However,
the signiﬁcance of the presence of few clear cell fool is not known, and this tumor is viewed as a papillary
renal cell carcinoma. Papillary renal cell carcinomas have a better 5- and 10- year survival rate at 86% and
82% than that Of conventional renal cell carcinomas at 77% and 70%. Besides the main tumor mass,
multiple other satellite tumor nodules were present that measured 1.0 cm in aggregate. Multifocality is a
prominent feature of papillary renal cell carcinomas. The hilar region was carefully cicamined to look for
the presence of lymph nodes, but none were identified.

Part B (retrocaval lymph nodes) contains a well-circumscribed tumor mass, measuring 5.8 cm. In the
periphery, a small amount of lymphoid tissue is present, consistent with lymph node metastasis with
almost entire replacement of the lymph node. Also adjacent to this tumor mass, the adrenal gland is
identiﬁed, which shows no gross or microscopic evidence of tumor involvement. in the pen-adrenal adipose
tissue, a small nodule was present which was a potential lymph node, but morphologic examination
revealed a sympathetic ganglion.

Specimen(s) Received
A:nght kidney
B:Retrocaval lymph nodes

Clinical History
The patient is a‘ear-old man with a right kidney tumor. He undergoes nephrectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh in two parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A is additionally labeled "right kidney." it consists of a kidney with attached perirenal fat, weighing
861 gm and measuring 16.0 x 14.0 x 9.5 cm. Bivalving reveals a 10.0 x 8.5 x 7.5 cm kidney. The
mid-kidney is largely occupied by a tumor, measuring 9.2 x 8.0 x 8.0 cm, with some peripheral uninvolved
kidney. The tumor is well circumscribed, the cut surface is heterogeneous and tan-white to yellow. with
some gelatinous areas. The tumor abuts the capsule but does not invade it at any point. It appears to
involve the renal sinus, and compresses the structures present there, but does not invade into a vessel.
Also present within the kidney. separate from the main tumor mass, are multiple small tumor nodules,
measuring 1.0 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. In the unaffected kidney, the cortex measures 0.8 cm, and the
medulla measures 1.8 cm. The ureter, renal artery, and renal vessel resection margins are clear and
uninvolved by tumor. Sectioning of the perirenal and hilar adipose tissue reveals no tumor or lymph
nodes. No adrenal gland is identiﬁed. Sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette Al: Resection margins of renal artery, vein, and ureter.
Cassette A2: Tumor with closest prOximity to capsule.

Cassettes A3-A6: Representative tumor.

Cassette A7: Tumor nodules away from the main tumor mass.
Cassette A8: Tumor with adjacent uninvolved kidney.

Cassette A9: Uninvolved kidney.

Cassette A10: Representative perirenal adipose tissue.

Part Bis additionally labeled "retrocaval lymph nodes." it consists Of an unoriented fragment Of yellow-tan
ﬁbroadipose tissue, measuring 10.5 x 5.5 x 3.0 cm. The external surface is inked in black. Serial
sectioning reveals a well-circumscribed tumor nodule, measuring 5.8 x 4.2 x 3.2 cm, which is apparently
encapsulated; it has a tan-yellow cut surface and grossly is almost identical to the primary renal tumor. No
deﬁnite peripheral lymph node tissue is identiﬁed. Adjacent to this tumor nodule but apparently separated
from it, the adrenal gland is identiﬁed, measuring 7.0 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm. Serial sectioning of the adrenal gland
demonstrates a yellow~black, speckled cut surface. No discrete lesions or involvement by tumor is

identiﬁed. §ectioning of the attached adipose tissue reveals one possible lymph node. Sections are
submitted as follows:

 

— Pa9e20f3

 

Cassettes 31-!!: Tumor mass.

Cassettes 33—34: Representative cross sections of adrenal gland.
Cassette BS:

Possible pen—adrenal lymph node.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

wthO'OQY Resident ologist
Electronically signed out 0

Tumor Site
HIPAA
Prior

Case is
Reviewer initials

 

 

Page 3 of 3

