BEA—664756

Examination report
Macroscopic ﬁndings:

1. (a—m) Left superior pulmonary lobe: resected lobe weighing 634g, and measuring 240 x 130 X 60 mm, with
remnants of pleural adhesion and, adhering tightly to the hilar section, a pericardial lobe measuring 75 x 50 mm,
with slightly whitish thickening and subhemorrhaging. In S 3 there is grayish-white, brittle, yellowish necrosis
and anthracotic pigment including a polycyclic, well demarcated tumor, measuring ’75 x 50 x 95 mm, extending
under the pericardial lobe described and, with unclear demarcation, to the adjacent subpleural and mediastinal
adipose tissue. B3 is tumorous in the intermediary section and dcstructed. The remaining segmental bronchi,
which can be dissected up to the periphery, are unremarkable. In the hilar section there are anthracotic
pigmented and swollen, non-tumorous lymph nodes. In the peritumoral pulmonary tissue there is a golden-
yellcw, mesh-like parenchymal image (xanthomatous retention pneumonia?) and in S 1, accentuated in the
apical section, there is clear pulmonary emphysema with a coarse structure and possible honeycomb lung.

2. Phrenic nerve: Grayish—brown, restiform excised material, 6 mm in length.

3. (a-b) Aortopulmonary window: bipartite lymph adipose tissue, measuring 25 x 20 x 10 mm in total, with
anthracotic pigmented lymph nodes, which are also in parts swollen and display adipose tissue. Complete
embedment.

4. L 11: quadripartite, measuring almost 10 mm in total, blackish pigmented lymph node tissue.
5. L 9: bipartite measuring 6 mm in total, blackish pigmented lymph node tissue.

6. L 7: segmented, measuring 5 mm in total, blackish pigmented lymph node tissue.
Microscopic ﬁndings:

1. (HE, PAS, EVG) tumor—free bronchial wall in the instantaneous section and the subsequent paraffin
embedment in the bronchial resection margin. Immediately next to this there are numerous lymph nodes, some
with signiﬁcant anthracotic pigment, with sinus histiocytosis and lymphofollicular hyperplasia as well as acute
blood clotting. The described tumor, made up of solid and garland-shaped structures of large, pleomorphic cells
with a signiﬁcantly misaligned nucleoplasmic ratio, chromatin coarsening and frequent mitosis with multiple
necrotic inclusions and concomitant stromal desmoplasia without keratinizing growth. Penetration of the
mediastinal pleura with intrusion, starting focally, into the lipomatous—atrophic thymus tissue. The adjacent
pericardial lobe is still tumor—free and there are further small non—tumorous lymph nodes embedded in the
mediastinal adipose tissue. In the apical section of 81 there is a subpleural area of scarring with ﬁbroelastosis
and nearby, a signiﬁcantly bullous and emphysematous lung structure with rareﬁed, stubby, upright and
partially inflamed alveolar septa. In the peritumoral, intraalveolar area there is a partly compact build—up of
foamy cellular macrophages. '

2. (HE) tumor-free lymph node tissue with slight lymphofollicular hyperplasia.

(HE) Similar ﬁndings to 2 with additional prominent histiocytosis and anthracosis

4. (HE) Similar ﬁndings to 3
5. (HE) Similar ﬁndings to 3
6. (HE) Similar ﬁndings to 3

 

Diagnosis: Resected left superior pulmonary lobe, measuring a max. of 95 mm, poorly differentiated and
nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma with intrusion into the mediastinum and inﬁltration here of the
lipomatous thymus tissue; next to this is a non—tumorous pericardiai lobe, non-tumorous bronchial resection
margins and non-tumorous lymph nodes with anthracotic pigment in the hilar and intrapuhnonary sections. Pre-
existing more severe, destructive pulmonary emphysema with structural sclerosis; xanthomatous retention
pneumonia in the immediate peritumorous section due to nicotine abuse.

2. ‘2 6. Further, tumor-free lymph nodes with varying degrees of anthracotic pigmentation.
Assessment:
The outer resection layers are all tumor—free on all sides and after that unequivocal removal of the carcinoma.

Tumor classiﬁcation:
M-8070/3, G 3, pT 4, pN 0, pMX, stage III B. R 0.
Leﬁ superior pulmonary lobe

Lymph nodes

 

