UUID: 8F11345E- 72FO- 41C3- 95AD- DC3416C8E42DC
Patient Rama“ TCGA- MZ- A7D7- -01A- PR d“

Requested my:d yh ”I
OrderedB -

Report Name:

Surg Path Case - STATUS: Final

"SEE NOTE Collect/Perform:
Ordered By: Ordered Date:
Facility: Department: PATH

Physician who Performed Procedure:
Requesting Physician: Not specified

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY,

Attending Pathologist

nettetttteaaaeeaeeaaeeon.eeeataeteetttmumgn

REpoﬂTiI-twe'ttltitotttntitteltI-oonltetnianet

This report is issued to correct the AJCC pathology staging. It should read
an followa:

CORRECTED REPORT :
- AJCC Pathologic Staging: pT3 N2b M-Not applicable
The rest of the report remains unchanged.

iﬂit*QQRQI.1ithiiﬁﬁﬁttiwttﬁiitltttiiiitiﬁfttﬁhittitkiﬁliiIllﬁiihﬁﬁitttiﬁﬁﬁt

.ﬁﬁﬁiitttfﬁtttﬁ.ﬂﬁﬁﬁtﬁﬂﬁiﬁiﬁiﬁﬁﬂﬁiii

ORIGINAL DIAGNOSIS: (see correction above)

1. Deep lateral base of tongue, margin, biopsy:

— Fibromuscular tissue, negative for carcinoma, (see comment).
COMMENT: The small clusters of detached atypical epithelial cells seen on
original frozen sections is not present at the permanent sections. Multiple
levels and immunohistochemical stain for cytokeratin (AElz3) were used to
evaluate the biopsy.

2. Medial base of tongue margin, biopsy:

- Fibromuscular tissue with salivary glands and focal marked cauterized

?a9€ '0‘? 6

Med Rec 4): “

 

Requested By;

Ordered By: ""
Report Name:

epithelimu
3. Lateral pharynx margin, biopsy:

— Fibromuscular tissue, negative for carcinoma, (see comment).

COMMENT: The small clusters of detached atypical epithelial cells seen on
original frozen sections is not present at the permanent sections. Multiple
levels and immunohistochamical stain for cytokeratin (AE113) were used to
evaluate the biopsy.

4. Medial pharynx margin. biopsy:

- Fibromuscular tissue and separate minute atypical epithelium.

5. Lymph nodes, RIGHT level 2A and 3. excision:

- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma seen in two of fourteen lymph nodes
with extranodal extension (2/14).

6. Lymph nodes. RIGHT level In, excision:

- Salivary gland. no lymph node or carcinoma seen.

7. Lesion, tongue. RIGHT partial pharyngectomy:

- Invasive squamous cell carcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated.
- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma seen in two of seventy-six lymph
nodes with extrsnodal
extension (2/76).
- See synoptic report.

8. Lymph nodes, RIGHT level 4, excision:
- Thirteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/13).

9. Lymph nodes, RIGHT level 28. excision:

— Twenty-one lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/21).

10. Lymph nodes, LEFT level 4, excision:

7 Thirteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/13).

Page 20:? e

mm "mm - Med “4*

Requested By:
Ordered By:

Report Name:

11. Lymph nodes, LEFT level 23, excision:
- Pour lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/4).
12. Lymph nodes, LEFT level 3. excision:

— Eleven lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/11).
SYNOPTIC REPORT
Mass, tongue, RIGHT partial pharyngectomy with lymph node dissection:

- Histologic Type: squamous cell carcinoma
- Histologic Grade: G2 (moderately differentiated) to G3 (poorly
differentiated)
- Tumor Size:
Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm; other two dimensions: 2 x 1 cm (microscopic
measurement)
- Tumor site: Base of tongue
- Tumor Focality: single focus
- Tumor Laterality: Right
- Tumor Configuration: ulcerated
~ Specimen Integrity: Intact
- Tumor Extension: Limited to the tongue .
- Margins: Separate submitted deep lateral base of tongue margin. medial
base of tongue margin, lateral pharynx margin and medial pharynx margins
are negative for carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: Separate submitted
deep lateral base of tongue margin, medial base of tongue margin, lateral
pharynx margin and medial pharynx margins are negative for carcinoma (In
Part 7, the carcinoma is present at inked deep edge, less than 0.1 cm from
inked tongue base and medial edge. 0.4cm from inked lateral edge.)

Perineural Invasion: Absent

- Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Indeterminate (see lymph node status)
‘ Regional Lymph Nodes: 2/76
Greatest tumor size in lymph nodes: 2.3 cm
Extranodal extension: Present
— Distant Metastasis: Cannot be determined
- Treatment Effect: Not identified
- Additional Pathologic Findings: None identified
AJCC Pathologic Staging: pTa N1 M-Not applicable (see CORRECTED REPORT)

COMMENT: None

Page 30? 6

Patient New” . Med Rec 10-.

Requested syr";
Ordered By:

Report Name: .

This case has been reviewed by one or more pathologists in the

 

CLINICAL INFORMATION:
Malignant neoplasm of orophsrynx.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

1. The specimen is received fresh for intrsoperative consult and labeled
"deep lateral base of tongue margin'. It consists of a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm
soft tissue. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section in one
cassette labeled IAPSC.

xNTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT:

'Fibromusculsr tissue negative for carcinoma; small cluster of detached

atypical epithelial cells which cannot be further cheructerized.‘ as per
Reported to

z. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consult and labeled
lmedial bass of tongue margin". It consists of a 1.5 x 1 x 0,2 cm soft
tissue. The specimen is trisected and entirely submitted for frozen
section in one cassette labeled ZAFSC‘

INTRAOPBRATIVB CONSULT:

nPibromusculer tissue with salivary glands with focal marxadly cauterized
atypical squamous epithelium which cannot be definitively characterized;
cannot exclude dysplssia/in situ carcinoma." as per Case

discussed with

3. The specimen is received fresh for intracperative consult and labeled

I'1ate1r:el pharynx margin'. It consists of a l x 0.4 x 0.2 cm soft tissue.

The specimen is trisected and entirely submitted for frozen section in one

cassette labeled JAFSC.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT:

"Pibromuscular tissue negative for carcinoma; small cluster of detached

atypical epithelial cells which cannot be further characterized.‘I as per
Reported to

4. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consult and labeled

PMe (/0? é

Patient Renew. . ma Rec In“
Requested By:‘ ‘
Ordered By;

Report Name:

"medial pharynx margin". It consists of a 1.3 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm soft tissue.
The specimen is trisected and entirely submitted for frozen section in one
cassette labeled 4APSC.

INTRADPERATIVE CONSULT:

'Fibromuscular tissue with salivary glands, negative for carcinoma. Small
detached atypical epithelial cells which cannot be further characterized."
as per ‘ Reported to

5. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right level 2A and 3'.
It consists of multiple irregular yellow-brown soft tissue fragments
aggregating to 5.8 x 5.0 x 3.5 cm. multiple possible lymph nodes are
identified, ranging from 0.2 cm to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The nodes
are submitted as follows:

5A: One node, bisected

58-SC: One node, trisected

SD: One possible grossly positive node, representative

53: Five possible lymph nodes

5?: Three possible lymph nodes

56: Five possible lymph nodes

6. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right level 13'. It
consists of a 3.4 x 2.5 by 1.6 cm unoriented irregular portion of
tan—yellow adipose tissue in which a piece of tan-pink, lobulated glandular
tissue (2.5 x 2.4 x 1.9 cm) is identified. Representative sections of the
glandular tissue are submitted in three cassettes, labeled 6A-6C.

7. The specimen is in formalin, labeled "right partial pharyngectomy,
short superior, 1 long lateral, 2 long tongue base'. It consists of a 4.9
x 3.3 by 1.1 cm roughly elliptical portion of tan~brown soft tissue in
which one surface is covered by is gray-purple and focally nodular and
eroded mucosa. Ink code: blue- superior, red- tongue base, green- lateral,
orange- medial, black- deep margin. The specimen is serially sectioned
from superior to tongue base and entirely and sequentially submitted in
7A-7M (7A: Superior margin, perpendicular; 1M: tongue base margin,
perpendicular).

8. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled 'right level 4'. It
consists of multiple irregular of tan—yellow fragments of adipose tissue,
3.6 x 2.8 x 1.2 cm. Multiple possible lymph nodes are identified (ranging
from 0.3 cm to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension) and submitted as follows:

8A: One node, bisected

Page 3/043 Q

Med Rec mm

 

Requested By:
Ordered By

Report Name:

83: One node, bisected

8C: one node. trisected

90: One intact node

SE: Five possible lymph nodes
8?: Four possible lymph nodes

9. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “right level 25*, It
consists of a 3.1 x 2.7 x 1.0 cm unoriented portion of tan—yellow adipose
tissue. Multiple possible lymph nodes are identified (ranging from is 0.1
cm to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension) and submitted as Eollows:

9A: Four possible lymph nodes

93: Five possible lymph nodes

9C: Ons intact nude (inked black) and one bisected node
SD: Three possible nodes

93: Two intact lymph nodes

9?: Three possible lymph nodes

10. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled '1eft level 4'. It
consists of multiple irregular tan—yellow fragments oE adipose tissue
aggregating to 4.4 x 3.5 x 2.1 cm. Multiple possible lymph nodes are

This is a Partial Report. call to: Full Report

Can 45

Renewed:

 

Pay é o? 43

