Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use, disclosure. or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

* Final Report *

regarding

 

Document Type:

Doc m ntD t : ; . . . .

Dmgmgm Sggs. W" strategies: Wrasse“...
gym; Erie: Ill lllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllll lllllfllllllllllllllllllll
Veda“ By: y. H lllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllll

Encounterinfo; I llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllll ‘ 4 '1/{D-o-3 , t
* Final Report * Muswg Nos 97.20 :3
SJ? .. SWLJZLMW 114mm,

9%) rim/Fr

Patient Name: Acc #: _
MRN: DOB: _(Age: ) '

/W
(74%}

Location:

Gender: Collected:
Client: Received:
Submitting ' ‘. Reported:
Phys:

Final Surgical Pathology Report
*** ADDENDUM PRESENT ***

Addendum Diagnosis
Skin and subcutaneous tissue. right epitrochlear, BRAF analysis (block C7; performed by

NEGATlVE for the BRAF VSOOE mutation.
For the complete report from

the
was performed by

Services, please refer to the “Outside Labs" section of the lab result ﬂowsheet in
This test was performed using the BRAF V600 Mutation Test. This analysis

_ , , . , , and was not performed at
. The results are being reported here for convenience and as supplemental information only.

The ﬁnal diagnosis as reported below remains unchanged.

Electronically Signed by

Printed by: Page 1 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

. Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

Anat Path Reports '—

* Final Report *

regarding

Final Pathologic Diagnosis

A. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT AXILLA, LEVELS 1 AND 2, LYMPHADENECTOMY:
- METASTATIC MELANOMA PRESENT IN FOUR OF THIRTEEN LYMPH NODES (4’13).
- EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION: NOT IDENTIFIED ON REPRESENTATIVE CROSS SECTIONS.

B. LYMPH NODES. RIGHT AXILLA. LEVELS 2 AND 3, LYMPHADENECTOMY:
- METASTATIC MELANOMA PRESENT IN THREE OF FOUR LYMPH NODES (314).
- EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION: NOT IDENTIFIED ON REPRESENTATIVE CROSS SECTIONS.

C. SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE, RIGHT EPITROCHLEAR, EXCISION:
-METASTATIC MELANOMA (7.6 X 6.6 X 4.9 CM).

-TUMOR PRESENT WITHIN 0.1 MM OF DEEP SURGICAL MARGIN.
SEE COMMENT

Comment I 3

The right epitrochlear melanoma is based in the subcutis but extends to'the Mng ulcerated skin surface. No intraepiderrnal
component is seen in the adjacent intact epidermis.

The largest lymph node with metastatic melanoma grossly measures 6.0 cm.

The tumor shows strong diffuse positive staining for melan A and MITF, Although there is also patchy staining for AE1/3, the
immunoﬁndings in conjunction with the morphologic appearance support the diagnosis (immunostains performed on specimens
A and C).

Electronically Signed by
Assisted by:

Addendum / Signed Out

Clinical Histog
Excision of right upper extremity metastatic melanoma and right axillary dissection.

Sgecimenis) Received

A: Right axillary contents. levels 1 and 2

B: Right axillary contents, levels 2 and 3

C: Right epitrochlear mass with epitrochlear contents

Gross Description
All three specimens are received fresh, labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number.

Specimen A is further designated as "right axillary contents, levels 1 and 2." It consists of an ellipse of white skin measuring 15.0

Printed by: Page 2 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

-Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

AnatReoPathps _

* Final Report *

regarding

x 3.0 cm and excised to a depth of 15.0 cm. The skin is grossly unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes and possible tumor

nodules are identiﬁed within the specimen ranging in size from 1.0 to 6.0 cm in greatest dimension.’ The lymph nodes are
submitted as follows. (Dictated by '

Specimen B is further designated "right axillary contents. levels 2 and 3." The specimen consists of fatty tissue, four lymph

nodes ranging in size from 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm to 3.2 x 2.6 x 1.3 cm. The largest node appears grossly positive. Representative
sections are submitted as follows. (Dictated by

Specimen C is received fresh in a container labeled with the patients name, medical record number and "right epitrochlear mass
with epitrochlear contents." The specimen consists of an unoriented portion of skin and underiying subcutaneous tissue
measuring 13.0 x 8.4 cm and excised to a depth of 2.9 cm. Located on the skin surface is a fungating lobular mass measuring
7.6 x 6.6 x 4.9 cm and is less than 1.0 mm from the surgical excision margin. The cut surface of the tumor is Iobulaled and

yellow-white with areas of necrosis. A portion of tissue is submitted for Tissue Bank. The surgical excision margin is inked
black. Representative sections are submitted as follows. (Dictated by

CASSETTE SUMMARY:

A1: One lymph node, bisected

A2: One lymph node, bisected

A3: Representative section of grossly positive lymph node

A4: One lymph node. bisected

A5: One lymph node. bisected

A6: Two lymph nodes. whole

A7: Two lymph nodes. whole

A8: One lymph node, bisected

A9: One lymph node, bisected

A10: Representative section grossly positive lymph node, 3.0 cm in greatest dimension
A11' Representative section of grossly positive lymph node, 5.0 cm in greatest dimension
A12: Representative section of tumor nodule. 6.0 cm in greatest dimension

81,2: Representative sections of grossly positive lymph node

BS: Lymph node. trisected

B4: Lymph node. trisected

BS: One whole lymph node

C1: Tumor at closest approach to margin

C2- 2 Representative sections of tumor

C9: Representative in uninvolved tissue

Microscopic Description
Microscopic examination is performed.

Printed by: . Page 3 of 4
Printed on: (Continued)

Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

regarding
patient information. Any unauthorized use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

Anat Path Reports

* Final Report *

Printed by: Page 4 of 4
Printed on: (End of Report)

mien- [/‘4/ 47/” \ m \ no /\
M

Diagnosis Disct'EPiMY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary Turner Site i.’ r l / l /
HIPM Discrepancy l J I I
Prim L. History l I d
Dual/Synchronous Primmm‘

  
 
     

 

 

05¢ l s (circle): ALIFI
lnitials

