UUID: 73CA106C- 6158- 4324- 9D82- -44n42254REFeBA4ac
TCGA- UY- A9PA--01A PR

||| llllllllllll|||||||||l||||||||l||llllllllllllllll
Ill l|||||| | Ill I III“ | II“ | |l||||||||l| llllllllllll IIIIHIIRIIII IIIldIIII IIIIecI
Ill lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|l|llllllllllllllllllIllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

  
  

  

 

 

 

Patient Name~ Accession #: “
Med. Rec.#: * Visit #: - Service Date:
DOB: Sex: Male Received:
Soc. Sec. #: Location: - Client:
Physicianls)= — Tab 0- 3
ﬂamma. #me Mos 8726/5
P D 3.1/7. 7W1. @EM am 77
IAGNOS (I "
FINAL ATHOLOGIC IS WWW

A. Left ureter, biopsy: Ureter with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality; no tumor
identiﬁed.

B. Right ureter, biopsy: Ureter with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality; no tumor
identiﬁed.

C. Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy:

1. Invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma, 3.0 cm, invading perivesicular fat,
negative margins; see comment.

2. Extensive carcinoma in situ extending to bladder dome.

3. Prostate with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality, no prostatic or urothelial
carcinoma identiﬁed.

4. Bilateral seminal vesicles with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.
5. Bilateral ureters with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.
D. Bladder, "more," excision: Fibrofatty tissue; no tumor identiﬁed.

E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identiﬁed in thirteen lymph nodes
(0/13).

F. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor identiﬁed in eight lymph nodes
(0/8); see comment.

G. Meckel's diverticulum, excision: Small bowel mucosa with focal gastric
heterotopia; no tumor identiﬁed.

H. Left ureter, "ﬁnal," excision: Ureter with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.

 

k. Page 1 of 4

1. Right ureter, " Inal," excision: Ureter with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality.

COMMENT:

The urothelial carcinoma does not invade the prostate. No prostatic adenocarcinoma is identiﬁed, and
no high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia is seen.

An immunohistochemical stain for keratin was performed on slide F1, and is negative, ruling against
metastatic carcinoma.

Bladder Tumor Synoptic Comment

— Tumor type: Urotheiial (transitional cell) carcinoma.

- Tumor grade: High grade.

- Tumor size: 3.0 cm.

- Extent of tumor in bladder: Invasion through muscularis proprla into perlvesical tissue.
- Lymphatic/vascular invasion: None.

- Epithelial abnormalities In bladder: Carcinoma in situ.

- Extension of tumor into adjacent organs: None.

- Margins: Negative (invasive tumor is 0.3 cm from margin).

- Right ureter margin: Negative.

- Left ureter margin: Negative.

- Perlveeical margin: Negative (invasive tumor is 0.3 cm from margin).
- Lymph node statue: Negative.

- Total number of nodes examined: 21.

- Total number 01’ positive nodes: 0.

- Other pathologic ﬁndings in bladder: None.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT3aNOMX.

 

 

Specimen“) Received

A:Left ureter, biopsy (FS)
B:nght ureter, biopsy (FS)
C:Bladder (FS)

D:More bladder specimen (fresh)
E:Right pelvic lymph node

F:Lei't pelvic lymph node
G:Meckel's "diverticle"

H:Flnal left ureter

I:Flnai right ureter

Intraoperatlve Diagnosis
F51 (A) Left ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.

F52 (B) Right ureter, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.

F53 (C) Urethral margin, biopsy: No carcinoma. (Dr.

Clinical History

The patient ls a‘year—oid man with urothelial carcinoma who now undergoes radical
cystoprostatectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in nine parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number. Parts A and B are received fresh for frozen section diagnosis. Parts 0-! are received in

~ Paoe20f4

 

formalin.

Part A, additionally labeled '1 - left ureter,“ consists of one soft, irregular, unoriented, white-pink-red,
irregular tissue fragment that is 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1.

Part B, additionally labeled ‘2 - right ureter," consists of one soft, irregular, unorlented, white-pink-red,
irregular tissue fragment that is 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The enti specimen is frozen for frozen section
diagnosis 2, and subsequently submitted in cassette Bl.

Part C is received fresh additionally labeled "bladder," and consists of a 288-gram bladder and prostate
measuring 13.5 x 11 x 4.5 cm. The urethral margin is submitted for frozen section diagnosis #3. The
bladder mucosa shows a 3 x 2 cm, pink-tan, papillary mass that is on the left wall and extends from the
trigone to the left dome. The tumor extends into the muscualris propia 2cm , and appears to abut but
not involve the serosal surface. The mass does not appear to involve the perivesicular fat. The mass is
2 cm from the prostate. The remaining bladder mucosa is tan-pink, folded and unremarkable. The
attached prostate measures 4 x 3 x 3 cm, and on cut section, contains white-tan, whorled, grossly
unremarkable prostate parenchyma. The attached seminal vesicles each measure 3 x 2 x 2 cm appear
grossly unremarkable. The perivesicular fat is removed, and lymph nodes are thoroughly searched for,
however, and no lymph nodes are found. Cassettes are submitted as follows:

Cassette C1: Frozen section 3 frozen section remnant.
Cassettes C2-C5: Full thickness sections showind deepest extent of invasion.
Cassette C6: Relationship of mass to adjacent bladder mucosa.

Cassettes C7-C8: Consecutive sections showing relationship of the mass to the prostate.
Cassette C9: Right bladder dome.

Cassette C10: Right bladder wall.

Cassette C11: Right inferior bladder wall.

Cassettes C12-C13: Prostate apex after removal of the urethral margin.

Cassettes C14-C15: Mid-portions of the prostate.

Cassette C16: Left prostate base with seminal vesicles.

Cassette C17: Right prostate base with seminal vesicles. ’

Part 0, labeled “#4 - more bladder specimen," consists of a single soft, irregular piece of fat measuring
3 x 2.5 x 0.3 cm. One portion of this fatty tissue has a stitch attached, and this stitch may be a
retraction aid. Nonetheless, the area is inked black. The stitch is removed. This stitched area has a
ﬁbrous, beefy appearance and consistency. The specimen is entirely submitted with the ﬁrm ﬁbrous
tissue in cassette 01 and the remaining fatty tissue in cassette 02. v D

Part E, additionally labeled "5 - right pelvic LN," consists of multiple tan-brown-yellow fatty tissue
fragments measuring 5.5 x 4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is trimmed and extensively

searched for lymph nodes. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and the entire specimen is
submitted as follows:

Cassette E1: Four intact nodes.
Cassette EZ: Largest intact node
Cassettes E3-E4: Remainder of specimen. D

Part F, additionally labeled "6 - leﬁ: pelvic LN," consists of multiple soft, tan-yellow, fatty tissue
fragments measuring 5 x 4 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The specimen is trimmed and extensively searched

for lymph nodes. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are found and the entire specimen is submitted as
follows:

Cassette F1: Four intact nodes.
Cassette F2: Three intact nodes-
Cassette F3: Remaining fat

Part G, additionally labeled "7 - Meckel's diverticle [sic]," consists of one ﬁrm, pink-tan, unorlented
tissue fragment measuring 1.7 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. On one end, the specimen reveals a lumen that
measures 0.2 cm in diameter with a pink-tan ring. The specimen is inked blue, then longitudinally
transected reveal soft and ﬁrm, pink-tan homogeneous tissue. No lesions are noted. The entire

, Page 3 of 4

 

specimen is submitted in cassette GI. -

 

Part H, additionally labeled "8 - final left ureter," consists of one soft, tan-light brown tissue fragment
oriented by a black suture and metal staple on one end, measuring 1 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The suture and
the staple line are removed, and the underlying area is inked blue. The specimen is cross-sectioned and
entirely submitted in cassette H1. .

Part I, additionally labeled "9 - ﬁnal right ureter," consists of one soft, tan-brown tissue fragment
oriented by a tan suture and a metal staple on one end measuring 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm. The suture and
the staple are removed and the underl ing area is inked blue. The specimen is cross-sectioned and
entirely submitted in cassette 11. (

The immunoperoxidase stain(s) reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

‘ , They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

.athology Resident [Pathologist
Electronically signed out on

Criteria [-0,
Diagnosis Discrepancy [/0

P’lmaryi'umo,» . .
HlpAA Distrepancy

    
 
     

 
  

  

Prior Malignancy History
Dual/Synchronou '

 

ﬁ Page4or4

