Sample #‘

Gender: Male
DOB:

Race: White
Report Date:
Pathology Report:

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Right pelvic lymph nodes; lymphadenectomy:
- Twelve lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 1 2).

B. Left pelvic lymph nodes; lymphadenectomy:
- Fourteen lymph nodes, no tumor (0/ 14).

C. Urinary bladder and prostate; cystoprostatectomy:

EDO~3
CZAAJAZEZ:?¥IJL'£ EUCLbyCégajs

"2:2.

%ﬁ7£¢:3

qr) 7M/3

UUID:D§242933-91F7-4EDF -91D2-217F63A£AF92
I“ ”IITIGA- FD-ASTB -91A- P

R Redacted
l lllllll lllll Illllllllll lllllllllllllllllll
IHIII Hill “I I‘ll ll lillllllll I lililllllll ll ll 1 l I m il I'lll H I"

II
II I
lllHlllllllllllllllﬂlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

- Invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma, inﬁltrating thru the bladder
muscularis propria and focally into the perivesical fat, see pathologic

parameters.
- All specimen resection margins, free of tumor.

D. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, free of tumor.

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters
. Tumor type: Invasive urothelial carcinoma.

. Grade of tumor: High grade.

. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.
. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

OONQUI-kaNF‘

. Lymph nodes: Negative for tumor (0/26).
9. pTNM: pT3a,N0,MX.

. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (microscopic [slide C21]).
. Tumor distribution: Solitary, 2.7 cm, right posterolateral wall.

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and

the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, H, MD
Electronically Signed Out by [] MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old male with malignant neoplasm of bladder, part
unspeciﬁed undergoing cystoprostatectomy, ileo-conduit.

Specimens Received:

A: Left pelvic lymph nodes

B: Left pelvic lymph nodes

C: Bladder and prostate

D: Right distal ureter, stitch on non margin side

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in four containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple soft, rubbery,
yellow—tan tissue fragments measuring 6.3 x 5.2 x 1.4 cm in aggregate. 17 lymph
node candidates are identiﬁed and submitted as follows:

Al: 3 lymph node candidates

A2: 4 lymph node candidates

A3: 3 lymph node candidates

A4: 4 lymph node candidates

A5: One lymph node candidate, bisected

A6: One lymph node candidate, bisected

A7: One lymph node candidate, bisected

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph
nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin are multiple soft, rubbery,
yellow—tan tissue fragments measuring 6.2 x 5.5 by is 1.3 cm in aggregate. 13
lymph node candidates are identiﬁed and submitted as follows:

Bl: 3 lymph node candidates

B2: 4 lymph node candidates

B3: One lymph node candidate, bisected

B4-B5: One lymph node candidate, bisected, one half in each cassette

B6: 4 lymph node candidates

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder/prostate".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 190 g, 14.5 x 9.0 x 5.0 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 6.0 x 6.0 x 2.1 cm bladder with
attached mesenteric fat and a 4.4 x 4.0 x 3.9 cm prostate. The right seminal

vesicles measure 4.1 x 1.3 cm and right vas deferens measures 4.2 x 0.5 cm. The

left seminal vesicles measures 3.9 x 1.0 cm and left vas deferens measures 6.5 x ’ .“ '
0.4 cm. The right ureteral stump measures 1.5 x 0.4 cm, the left measures 1.2 x

0.4 cm, and each demonstrates an intact, patent lumen.

The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is
inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The outer surface of the prostate is smooth. Sectioning demonstrates rubbery,
pink-tan, pen-urethral nodularity without evidence of any lesions or
indurations.

The opened bladder reveals a 2.7 x 2.5 cm red-tan, friable ulcer (lesion A)

located in right posterolateral wall and a 2.5 x 1.0 cm ulcer (lesion B) in the
inferoposterior wall/prostatic urethra. In addition, a pink edematous mucosa is
noted on the left lateral wall measuring 2.0 x 1.5 cm. On cut section, lesion B
extends into but not through the mucosa and is 2.0 cm from the deep margin. 0n
cut section, the lesion A extends into but not through the mucosa and is 1.7 -

2.1 cm from the deep margin. The surrounding bladder mucosa is smooth, wrinkled,
pink-tan with a uniform 1.1 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces,

adjacent to the trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

C]: Distal prostatic urethral margin '

C2: Right ureter resection margin

C3: Left ureter resection margin

C4: Prostate apex

C5-C7: Representative right lobe of prostate

C8-C10: Representative left lobe of prostate

C1 l-C l 6: All sections of ulcer/lesion in the inferoposterior wall/prostatic
urethra (Lesion B)

C17-C20: All sections of the edematous mucosa in the left lateral wall
C21-C28: All sections of the ulcer in the right posterior lateral wall
(Lesion A)

C29: Representative section of uninvolved bladder mucosa, posterior
wall

C30: Representative section of uninvolved mucosa, bladder dome
C31-C32: Representative section of uninvolved bladder mucosa, anterior wall

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right distal ureter,

stitch on non-margins side".

Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 1.1 x 0.9 cm, soft, pink-tan tubular
specimen grossly resembling ureter which is oriented by a long stitch on the
non-margins side. The margins side is sectioned and submitted en face as D1 and
the remaining specimen is bisected and submitted in toto as D2.

 

