UUID:98E79F47-F1Ea-4530-A717-BBDZSTFFAFCB
TCGA-XB-ABCA-alA-PR Redacted

Ill llllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllll llll Illlllllﬂ
|Illlllilllllllllllllllll

   
       

I” lllllllllllllllllll
I” ”ll” Illllllllllll II “I"
-3URGICAI. mmowmf consuLTAmmmhn V . . l '9‘“ Wm“

Collection Information
d—ni‘iml‘ , ' comm. nan Collection Ti

 

 

_ ' Collectedﬂy : Spocimen‘Sms . Specimen Gammon

Component Rm!!!
' Somponﬁnt
DImSIS
Soft tissue, nqht louse leg. resection:
High grade spindle cell sitcom with extensive tumor necrosis (40!),
21.0 cm, present at inked (blue and black) resection margins.- see
mom.
Kitotic count: up to 10 pet high power field.

1:
Guam

m patient's prior biopsy : was concurrently

reviewed and selected i—unohistocnenicai stained were [22:10!le on the " QWB
resection specimen. Rosa tumor cells see positive for oesnin and calmain. C! I at E 5

Mysqexun stain is negative. Although this tuna: lilely arose in

 

reported: Pathologist (Electronic Signacutl)

 

mysoi'ibzosarm, pleonorphie sateen. In: overgrown any recognizable louse

gunman .. . .. . ... .. .. V .Sﬁf @ ., M05 0,119.2

TISSUE suntan-an

6;“... m... m 9%) 11 4/13

Specimn condition: Received fresh in a container labeled with the

patient'a name, hospital saucer and "Right lave: leg tumot' is s 23.6 x

15.0 s. La can sort tissue resection specimen. The use is covered on

one aortic. by a thin layer of red-brain skeletal muscle and fascia.

‘l'ne remaining tissue is canvases or s pink-tan, lultilobul-ted, friable

exposed sass, consistent with tumor. Ai-o received is a detached

awareness at skeletel muscle and detached tunes mousing 13.0 x 1.9.5 I:

2.0 c- in aggregate. Type 92 prooemre: Resection.

Overall size: The tumor measures 21.0 x 15.0 I 5.5 cu.

“types or identiﬁable tissue present and size a: each: The agency of

the specimen is cowosed a! tune: with a thin tie a: overlying skeletal

uncle and testis along one surface.

Attached organs: Hone.

Tumor gross aorpholoqic description: the tuzaor mass is tan-pink.
mltilDBuiated and friable. Sectioning reveals slightly gelatinous cut
surlaces with tocal areas of. cystic degeneration and neczosis

(spprsaintely ant-sou . The tumor is grossly exposed along :11

surfaces not covered by skeletal muscle.
Size: 21.0 x 15.0 s 6.5 on.

Depth of toner: Unable to assess.
Estimate i necrosis: 30-4“.
Previous biopsy site/scar: Not identities.

Involvement/invasion at major structures: The tumor grossly abuts the
Racial/numer- sortaee.

Presence of satellite nodules away from main sass: Not identitied.

Lymph nodes. if present: None present.

Margins: The tumor grossly involves all surfaces not covered by skeletal
mscleiiascia. nae tumor grossly sluts the skeletal mole/fascial

surface.

Photograph: none taken.

Tissue saved to: special studies: This cese is consented and a portion or

the tumor is subuitted to the tissue bank.

Int identiﬁers by pathologist: Muscle/Issue]. entrees-black, remainder

of resection margins-blue.

Blocks sub-atted: iii—As, representative sections at tune: in relationship

to tasciel surlace/sxeletal muscle (inked black}: 135. tumor in

relationship to exposed soft tissue margins (inked blue).- AS—MS,
ndﬂ‘tinnal representative sections of mass. two per cassette.

lump“!
Tumor microscopic description:
Histoloqic type: Spindle cell sarcasm.
Histoloqic grade: High grade.
Mitotic rate (per 10 hp! 9 40K): up to 40 per 10 high power fields.
Extent of necrosis: Present, approximately 40‘.
Vascular invasion: Hot identified.
Intimatory infiltrate: Not present.
Site and depth: Unable to access.
Hanna]. dimension: 21.0 on.
Minimal distance (s) to resection margins: All resection margins are
involved. including the skeletallrascisl surface.
Character of lesion-l margin: Infiltrative.
Evidence ot pee-existing benign lesion: Not identified.
Lymph nodes: None identified.
Special studies: Imnonistochemical stains were pertomec: see cement.

DEEIDII‘IIOHS
Pukequ: “my mm: ('1')
XX 1': Ma: mu chm 5 an in arenas: Gun-mum

Regional. Lywh Modes (N)
XX p!!! Region-1 lymph nods: cannuz b: useaaed

The pacholeqlc may: buea on "31132312 patholnqxc “Land. 1: :pr: pm!
The optimal tum black to: Mina-nu! undies on neaplan LI AS
(additional. ovum]. block: include M0, A13, R11.

Performed by:

A: the pxmzy punchy“: on this case, I have personuly reviewed um:
.F‘!‘ mvyﬁtuﬁﬁhs an??? 9', Manet} ' ‘ ‘
1m ”501.1%?!“
This case was seen in maultaum with
Patient Release Status:
This Nani!!! nolmaﬁbbyuw pain.
Lab and Canadian
Rmullﬂiutom

 

 

PATHOLOGY CONSULTAYIOMw (Urdu 4 , Outer Realm History Repenv
Result Emomd Br

 

Lub‘ ‘ “
, Lab, '

Rustin-wad by List

umor Site

as:
Reviewu Initials

 

