 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results .TCGA ‘ HZ ‘ 3902

 

 

Surgical Pathology (Copath) - Fiﬂﬂﬂ
Path Report Final

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY EPORT

ACCESSlON NO. :*

Finat Diagnosis(es):

(A) Falcitorm iigament, resection:

1) Benign fibroadipose tissue.

2) Negative for malignancy.

(8) Lymph node, lesser omentum, biopsy: One lymph node,
negative for metastasis (on }.

(C) Lymph node. posterior portal. biopsy: Two lymph nodes,
negative for metastasis (0/2).

(D) Bile duct margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

(E) Pancreatic margin. biopsy: Negative for malignancy.
(F) Stomach. pancreaticoduodenectomy. partial gastreotomy and
cholecystectomy (Whipple resection):

i) invasive duotai adenocaroinoma, moderately
differentiated (see Synoptic Report).

2) The tumor is 3.1 cm in greatest dimension.

3) Alt surgical margins are free of involvement by tumor.
4) Four of thirty-three total lymph nodes are positive

for metastatic adenocarcinorna (4/33).

5) Pathologio stage: pT3N1.

6) Chronic pancreatitis

7) Gallbladder with chronic choleoystitis with

chotelithiasts.

8) Stomach and duodenum with no mucosa! histopathologlo
abnormatity.

(G) Lymph node, superior pancreatic, excision: Four lymph
nodes. negative for metastasis (OH).

(H) Lymph node, celiac, biopsy: One lymph node, negative for
metastasis (0/1).

Synoptic Report:

Specimen:

Head of pancreas.

Duodenum.

Stomach.

Common bite duct.

Gallbladder.

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whippte resection), partiat
pancreatectomy. partial gasireotomy. ohoiecystectomy.
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head.

Tumor Size:

Greatest Dimension: 3.1 cm.

Additional Dimensions: 2.5 x 2.4 cm

Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma.

Histoiogic Grade: 62; Moderatety differentiated.

Microscopic Tumor Extension:

 

Printed from: Dei‘iiult

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

Tumor invades ampuiia of Voter.

Tumor invades duodenal wall.

Tumor extends into peripancreatic soft tissues.

Margins:

Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5 mm
(posterior pancreatic soft tissue margin)

Margins uninvolved by carcinoma in situ.

Lymphvascuiar invasion: Present.

Perineural invasion: Present, extensive.

Pathologic Staging:

Primary Tumor: pTS: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but
without involvement of the ceiiac axis or the superior
mesenteric artery.

Regional Lymph Nodes: pNt : Regional lymph node
metastasis.

Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 33 (including
specimens B.C,F,G and H).

Number of Lymph Nodes involved: 4

Distant Metastasis: MX: Not applicable.

Additional Pathologtc Findings:

Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (highest grade: PaniN
3).

Chronic pancreatitis.

ﬂholecystitis with oholelithiasls.
omrnen s:

This case has been reviewed and the diagnosis approved by
departmental surgical pathology staff.

‘The gross description and all microscopic slides have been
‘ athologist’

    

A: Falsifonn ligament

B: Lessor omentum lymph node

C: posterior portal lymph node

D: Bile duct margin

E: Pancreatic margin

F: Stomach. jejunum, gaiibiadder. duodenum. head of pancreas
G: Superior pancreatic lymph node
H: Cetiac lymph node

Clinical History:

{Not Provided}

intraoperative Consut ' n:

Time Received:

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

Time Reported: -

F8131: Bile duct margin: Negative for malignancy(1 block).

malignancy (1 block)

  

ross Description:
(A) (falciform ilgament) Received in formalin is a lobuiated
fragment of iibrofatty tissue measuring 7.5 x 3.5 x 1.0 cm,
consistent with faiclform ligament. Seriaily sectioning the
specimen reveals a firm fibrous ligamentous structure measuring
up to 5 mm in diameter, running nearly the entire longitudinal
axis of the specimen. Surrounding the ligament is iobulated
adipose tissue. No nodules or masses are identified. A
representative section of the ligament with surrounding
fibroadipose tissue is submitted in cassette A1.
(8) (teaser omentum lymph nodes) Received in formalin is'an
irregular fragment of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.0 x 1.5 x
1.0 cm. Within the fragment is identified a single tan, rubbery
lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The
lymph node is bisected and submitted in cassette 81. The
remaining tissue fragments are submitted entirely in cassette
[32. .
(C) (posterior portal lymph node) Received in formalin are two
firm, tan tissue fragments, measuring up to 6 mm and 4 mm in
greatest dimension, respectively. The fragments are submitted
entirely in cassette 01.
(D) (bile duct margin - FS) Received fresh for intracperatlve
consultation is a segment of dilated bile duct measuring 1.0 cm
in diameter and 2 mm in length. The specimen is submitted
entirely for frozen section evaluation in cassette FSDt.
(E) (pancreatic margin - FS) Received fresh for intracperative
consultation is an irregular, fiat section of pancreas measuring
1.8 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. A single stitch is present at the true
margin. Following removal of the stitch. the specimen is
submitted entirely for frozen section evaluation in cassette
FSEt.
(F) (stomach. jejunum, gallbladder, duodenum, and head of
pancreas)
Specimen components and dimensions: Received in formalin is a
Whipple resection specimen including a portion of distal
stomach, proximal duodenum. pancreatic head. and attached
gallbladder. The distal stomach measures 6.5 cm in length with
a diameter ranging from 4.5 to 7.0 cm. The proximal gastric
resection margin is stapled shut. The segment of duodenum
measures 15.0 cm in length with an average diameter of 2.5 cm.
The pancreatic head measures 5.0 cm from left to right. 4.? cm

from superior to interior. and 4.5 cm from anterior to

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

 

posterior. The attached gallbladder measures 11.0 x 4.0 x 2.0
cm and is attached to the main specimen by a cystic duct
measuring 1.5 cm in length and the common bile duct measuring
5.5 cm in length with an average diameter of 0.7 cm. The distal
duodenal resection margin is stapled shut. Although the
pancreatic resection was submitted previously for frozen section
evaluation. the new resection margin is inked red. Additional
areas of the pancreas are inked as follows: Green - uncinate
margin; yellow - anterior; black - deep; and purpie - vascular
margin. A stent is present in the distal common bile duct.

Size. appearance, and location of tumor: Within the pancreatic
head in the area of the ampulla is an irregular, firm, white

mass with irregular borders. measuring 3.1 x 2.5 x 2.4 cm. On
cut surface, the mass is firm and white tan with peripheral
spicuiation and local areas of possible central hemorrhage.
Gross impression of invasive growth: The mass displays an
indistinct border but clearly invades into the duodenal wall and
possibly into the duodenal mucosa. The mass also appears to
extensively invade the perlpancreatic soft tissue. The mass
surrounds the ampulla and common bile duct.

Closest resection margins and distance: Although the tumor
borders are indistinct. the mass grossly measures 1.8 cm from
the pancreatic resection margin. 8 mm from the uncinate margin.
8 mm from the vascular margin. 5 mm from the nearest posterior
pancreatic soft tissue resection margin. 3.8 cm from the bile

duct resection margin. 7.0 cm from the distal duodenal resection
margin. and 8.5 cm from the proximal gastric resection margin at
its nearest point.

Other findings: Within the gallbladder are innumerable.

irregular. yellow, polyhedral stones. measuring up to 8 mm in
greatest dimension.

Uninvolved tissues: The stomach wail measures 8 mm in average
thickness. The gastric mucosa is soft, tan, and velvety without
nodules. ulceration, or hemorrhage. The uninvolved duodenal
wall measures 7 mm in average thickness. The duodenal mucosa is
soft. tan. and velvety with nonnai mucosal folds, without
additional nodules. ulceration. or hemonhage. The gallbladder
wall measures 5 mm in average thickness. The gallbladder mucosa
is rough and tannish brown without ulceration or hemorrhage. No
cholesterolosis is identified.

Lymph nodes attached: Within the peripancreatio soft tissues
and surrounding the common bile duct are 26 lymph nodes ranging
in size from 5 mm to 2.1 cm in greatest dimension.

Blocks submitted:

F1 - representative gastric resection margin

F2 - distal duodenal resection margin

F3 — representative gallbladder

F4 - representative stomach

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

 

F5 ~ representative uninvolved duodenum

F6 — mass to empuila and common bile duct

F7 — mass to nearest uncinate and vascular margins

F8 — representative uninvolved pancreas

F9 - mass to duodenum

F10 - mass to peripancreattc soft tissue

F11 - representative common bile duct

F12-F13 - additional representative sections of mass to
peripancreatlc soft tissue

F14 - one lymph node. bisected

F15 - one lymph node. bisected

F16 — one lymph node

F17—F18 ~ largest lymph node. bisected

F19 - one lymph node. bisected

F20 - one lymph node. bisected

F21 - five lymph nodes

F22 —' four lymph nodes

F23 - four lymph nodes

F24 - four lymph nodes

F25 - three lymph nodes

((3) (superiOr pancreatic lymph node) Received in formalin is

an irregular fragment of dark tan, rubbery tissue measuring up

to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. Within this fragment are
identified two possible lymph nodes. measuring up to 6 mm and 8
mm in greatest dimension. The larger possible lymph node is
submitted in cassette G1. The smaller lymph node and remaining
tissue fragments are submitted entirely in cassette GZ.

(H) (celiac lymph node} Received in formalin is an irregular.
lobuiated fragment of fibroadipose tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x
0.8 cm. Within this fragment is identified a single. tan,

rubbery lymph node measuring up to 0.9 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is bisected and submitted entirely in cassettes
H1~H2. _

Microscopic Description:

Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. -

Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and
evaluated for all stains on this case as required.

Histopathology has a list of 1H antibodies that are regulated as
analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed
and their performance characteristics determined by the

Histo in the Department of Pathology at the
They have not been cleared by the US
0 an rug ministration. The FDA has determined that such

clearance or approval is not necessary for the ASR's. These
tests are not investigationai and are used in standard clinical
care. in cases where immunohistochemistry testing is performed.

the following antibodies and their respective clones may be used

 

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Results

 

 

to determine therapy for the patient: EFGRt3tG'r'). ERtSP1).
PR(1E2). Her2neu(4t35). CDtt7(Poly). CDZO(L26).

Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for

ERPR by ll-lC. Her2 by iHC andlor HER2 by FlSH have been fixed as
per ANP.22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48
hours.

ER. PR. Kl-67. p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative
percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-Qineu and EGFR are
scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak.
incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is
scored as (1+). less than strong but complete staining in any
proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%
of cells is scored as (2+). and strong complete staining in more
that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed

on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in
paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report. .

 

Printed from: Default

 

 

 

 

