 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right oophorectomy:
Serous adenocarcinoma
Grade: Ill.
Tumor show near total replacement of specimen.
Size: 10.6 cm in greatest dimension.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed,
Right fallopian tube — Focal mucosal and so at involvement by serous adenocarcinoma.

B. Omentum, excision:
Metastatic serous adenocarcinoma'.‘

C. Ovary, left oophcrectomy:
Serous adenocarcinoma.
Grade: Ill .
Focal calcified ﬁbrous nodule with adjacent necrotic tissue.
Tumor shows near total replacement of every.
Size: 9.1 cm in greatest dimension.
Lymphovascular space‘invasion present. _ .1
Left faitopian tube =’:i;10t:identitied gms Iy or histologicaily. . L;

D. Peritoneum. left gutteribicpsy:
Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

E. Peritoneum. right gutter, biopsy:
Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

F, Diaphragm. biopsy:
Metastatic adenocarcincma.

G. Sigmcid mesenlenc impiant, biopsy:
Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

H. Uterus, hysterectomy:

Uterine cervix - .
Microscopic focus of high grade serous carcinoma. at transition zone. _
Multiple fool of metastatic tumor within intravascular space and submuccsal connective tissue.
Benign endocervicai polyp. '

Endcmetrium -
Endometrial polyp.
Background atrophy.

Myornetrium —
Foot of metastatic adenowrcinoma within vessels and connective tissue.
Multiple hyaiinized leiomyomas.

Uterine serosa ~

Fodofmetastatﬁaﬁeuomoomw, m W- ._.-.-c_,

 

 

 

 

 

z
(

 

:-“‘

pTNM stage: TSNXMX

COMMENTS: .
This case has been reviewed by Dr. ‘ vho agrees with the diagnosis.

QEthCiN-UNEDRMATIDNR

 

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptoms/Radiclogic ﬁndings:

SPECIMENS:

. Rightovary

. Omentum

. Leftovary

. Leitgutter

. Rightgutter

. Biopsy of diaphragm

. Sigmoid mesenieric implant
. Uterus

Immmuom>

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION: ‘

A. Part A received in formalin labeled and #1 is a 10.6 x 10.1 x 4.4 cm irregular to ovoid. shaggy tan pink to red purple membranous
tissue. with an attached 2.8 x 0.6 cm tubular tissue. The cut surface of the tissue cansists ofa 10.8 cm cyst. The remainder of the cut Surface consists
if tan pink to gray white soft ticsue. The attached tubular tissue has a tan pink serosa and a pinpoint lumen, consistentwim probable fallopian tube.

Also received in the same container is a 4.6 x 3.1 x 1.5 cm irregular gray white soft tissue. consistentwilh possible ovary. The outer surface is lobulated
shaggy and gray white. The cut surface is gray white. . a

The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted for froZen section and the frozen section residue is submitted in block 1.
Additional representative sections are submitted as labeled: —membranous tissue block 8 tubular tissue attached to membranous tissue
blocks 9 and 10 additional tissue. The blocks or to eled Also received in the same container are three orange cassettes labeled A C
__,and D and a green and yellow cassette labelerkfor genomic research study.

B. Part B received in formalin labels: Ind #2 omenturn is a 15.8 x 12.1 x 3.2 cm aggregate of ﬁbroadipose tissue, consistent with
omentum. The cut surface consists of predominanliy yellow tobulated adipose tissue, with a minimal amount of gray whim ﬁbrous tissue. There are
several ﬁrm may white areas on the cut surface. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in one cassette labeled

C. Part 0 received In formalin labeled _____ and #3 left ovary is a 9.1 x 4.7 x 2 6 cm irregular, shaggy tan red solt tissue. The cut surface

consists of focally gritty gray white to tan soft tissue. There is a 1.1 x 0. 6 x 0.5 cm hard nodule within the cut surface. No ovarian stroma to identiﬁed. A
fallopian tubers not identiﬁed. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted In six cassettes, with the hard nodule
submitted in cassette 6, following decalciﬁcation. The cassettes are labeled

D. Part D received in formalin labeled and #4 left gutter IS an 8. 4 x 3. 6 x O. 4 cm irregular gray white to tan red membranous tissue, with
attached adipose tissue. The Specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted In one cassette labeled

E. Part E is received in formalin labeled' nd #5 right gutter is a 7.4 x 5.2 x 1.1 cm'irregular. granular gray white to tan red membranous
tissue, with attached adipose tissue. The specimen Is serialiy sectioned and representative sections are submitted in one cassette labeled
F. Part F received in formalin labeled ‘ rm! #6 biopsy diaphragm is a 2.7 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm aggregate of gray white to red solt tissue, which is

serially sectioned and submitted in its entirety in one cassette labeled

G. Part G received in formalin labeled Ind #7 sigmoid mesenten‘c implant is a 1.3 x 1.1 x 0.4 cm irregular, gritty gray white soft tissue,

 

 

 

 

 

 

vith attached adipose tissue. which is serially sectioned and submitted in its entirety in one cassette labeled '

H. Part l-l received in formalin iabele _ and #8 uterus is a 52 gram previously opened hysterectomy specimen, consisting of a 4.7 x 4.3 x
2.6 cm uterine body and a 2.4 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm cervix. The specimen can not be oriented. The serosa is shaggy and tan pink to red. The exocenrixis
smooth and gray white with a 0.1 cm circular cs. The endocervical canal is glistening tan and 1.6 cm in length. There is a 0.6 x 0.5 cm endocervical
polyp. The identiﬁable probable endometrium is glistening tan and averages 0.1 cm in thickness. There is a 1.2cm cystic gray white possible
endometrlai polyp. The myometrium is trabeculated, tan pink, and averages 1.3 cm in thickness. There are multiple intramural whorted gray Mite
dense nodules, ranging from 0.4 to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. No areas of hemorrhage or necrosis are identiﬁed in the nodules. The largest nodule
has a gritty. hard gray white to yellow cut surface. The specimen is serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted as labeled: blocks 1
and 2 anterior and‘posterior cervix block 3 endocervical polyp, entirely submitted blocks 4 and 5 endomyometrium to include probable endometriat polyp
In its entirety block 6 myornetrial nodules block 7 largest myometn'al nodule, following decalciﬁcation block 8 serosa. The blocks are labeled

—
lNTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION:
118A: ‘Adenogarcingma: Favor ovarian primary’ per Dr _ -

 

A}

 

 

 

 

