uum:scaA75F5-Aaao-iicA9-Aana- 61r77c4li‘issssa

IIIIII“ ”“ P“ IIIIIII

IIIIIIIII III IIHIII IIII IIIIII I|||

 

 

 

 

||I|||||| II IIIIIIIIIIII I ”III

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med. Rec_ #3 Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age Location: Date of Receipt:

Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #2

Patient Address: Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:

T1 HG per TUR-BT, large volume tumor, possible extra bladder extension per imaging

Specimens Submitted:

1: Urethral margin (fs)

2: Right common iliac lymph node

3: Left common iliac lymph node

4: Right distal pelvic lymph node

5: Left distal pelvic lymph node

6: Bladder. prostate, seminal vesicles. peri vesicle lymph nodes
7: Presacral lymph nodes

8: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes #2
9: Distal left ureter

10: Distal right ureter

/C/>«0’j
(”W MM‘PZINUS flea/3
3/71/- AIWUW, Wharf/go; (“67.9.

W
V/IAV/V

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. Urethral margin (fs):
Benign urothellum and prostatic tissue

2. Right common iliac lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 4

 

3. Left common iliac lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3

 

4. Right distal pelvic lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 8

 

5. Left distal pelvic lymph node:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 6

 

6. Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, peri vesicle lymph nodes:

Tumor Type:

Urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation
Histologic Grade:

High grade
Pattern of growth of the Non-Invasive component:

Papillary and ﬂat

PM! 735, WWW : <52.

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
Inﬁltrating
Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed
Bladder Local Invasion:
Deep half of muscularis propria
Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Ureters uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved
Vascular Invasion:
Identiﬁed
Perineural Invasion:
Identiﬁed
Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:

Exhibiting chronic cystitis

Exhibiting ulceration
Prostate:

Other See prostate template below

Seminal Vesicles:

Not involved
Perivesical Lymph Nodes:

Not identiﬁed
The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):

pT2b (Invades deep half of muscularis propria)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Tumor Type:
Adenocarcinoma

Gleason's Grade:
Primary Gleason grade:3
Secondary Gleason gradez4
Total Gleason score:7

Tumor Location:

Dominant tumor mass located in: left posterior apex
Vascular Invasion:

Not Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identifed

High Grade Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia:
Identiﬁed
Capsule:
Tumor conﬁned to prostate
Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Bladder Neck:
Not Involved

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Prostate:

 

Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Exhibits nodular hyperplasia

Staging (AJCC 1997):
pT2a (conﬁned to the prostate & capsule. involving one lobe)

 

7. Presach lymph nodes:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1

 

8. Right distal pelvic lymph nodes #2:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

 

9. Distal left ureter:
Segment of benign and inﬂamed ureter

10. Distal right ureter:
Segment of benign and inﬂamed ureter

Note:
lmmunostains D240 and ERG were used to assess the presence of lymphovascular invasion,

 

Some of the immunohislochemistry and lSH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved
by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as
investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under Clinical Labomtory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA '88) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

*** Report Electronically Signed Out ***

 

Gross Description:

1) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation. labeled "Urethral margin " and consists of a tan pink piece of soft
tissue measun‘ng 1.2 X 1.2 X 0.3 cm. Entirely submitted for frozen section. Summary of sections: FSC - frozen section control

2) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Right common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of ﬁve pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 0.5 to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes, BL1 — BLN3 - bisected lymph nodes #1-3

3) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Left common iliac lymph node" and consists of six pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 0.6 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes. BLN - bisected lymph node

4) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Right distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of eight pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 0.6 to 3.5 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes, BLN - bisected lymph nodes. TLN — trisected lymph node

QL1 — quadrisected lymph node #1 , 0L2 - quadrisected lymph node #2

5)The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Left distal pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of thirteenth pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph
nodes ranging from 0.6 to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

 

Page 3 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes. BLN - bisected lymph nodes, QLN —- quadrisected lymph node

6) The specimen is received fresh, labeled “Bladder prostate, seminal vesicles and perivesicular lymph nodes“. It consists of a
bladder with attached prostate and adnexa measuring 17 cm from superior to inferior. 9 cm laterally and 8 cm from anterior to
posterior. The bladder measures 13.5 x 9.5 x 9 cm and is markedly distorted with an underlying non palpable mass. The prostate
measures 4.5 x 4 x 3.8 cm. The right half of the prostate is inked green; the left half of the prostate is inked blue. The anterior
aspect of the bladder is inked black and the posterior blue. The prostatic urethral margin is shaved and submitted. The bladder is
opened along the anterior midline to reveal a tan-yellow fungating predominately necrotic mass fulﬁlling the majority of the bladder
cavity measuring 12.5 x 9.5 x 6.2 cm. The tumor is more closely associated with the left lateral wall. but extends into all regions of
the bladder. completely covering the left anterior and posterior wall, dome mucosa. The attachment of the tumor to the bladder
mucosa is a 1.1 cm from the right ureteral oriﬁce. completely obliterating the left ureteral oriﬁce and is 4.2 cm from the prosthetic
urethral margin. The tumor is sectioned to reveal extension through the bladder wall into the perivesicular fat. predominantly to the
left aspect. The remaining bladder mucosa at the right anterior/posterior wall and trigone is tan yellow and granular. The
perivesicular fat is sectioned to reveal vascularity only. No perivesicular lymph nodes are identiﬁed. The prostate is serially
sectioned to reveal a diffuse tan nodular parenchyma with an edematous left and right seminal vesicle. The tumor is 1.4cm from
the underlying vasa deferentia. Representative sections are submitted. The specimen is photographed. TPS is submitted.
Summary of sections: UTHM - urethral margin. RUM — right ureter margin. LUM - left ureter margin, RUO - right ureter oriﬁce

LUO - left ureter oriﬁce. TAW - tumor to anterior wall and perivesicular fat. TPW - tumor to posterior wall and perivesicular fat

TF - tumor to perivesical fat. TVD - tumor to vasa deferentia. TRP - tumor to right posterior wall. TTRI - tumor to trigone

RA - right anterior wall. RAP - right apex prostate. LAP - left apex prostate, RAM - right anterior mid prostate

RPM - right posterior mid prostate. LAM — left anterior mid prostate, LPM - left posterior mid prostate

RAB - right anterior base prostate, RPB - right posterior base prostate, LAB - left anterior base prostate

LPB - left posterior base prostate. RSV - right seminal vesicle, LSV - left seminal vesicle

ADD - additional sections of the base of the tumor

7) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "Presacral lymph nodes" and consists of four pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph nodes ranging
from 0.7 to 3.2 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted. Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes

8)The specimen is received fresh, labeled "Right distal pelvic lymph nodes #2" and consists of a portion of yellow and tan adipose

tissue. measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.2cm, two pink tan ﬁrm. fatty lymph nodes are identiﬁed measuring 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.2 and 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.2
cm All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted. Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes

9) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal left ureter, unclipped end is margin" and consists of a tan-white tubular
tissue fragment measuring 4.1 cm in length and 1.0 cm in average diameter, with attached adipose tissue measuring 0.5 cm in
thickness. There is a clip at one end of the specimen. On cross sections, the mucosa appears grossly unremarkable. The
specimen is sequentially sectioned from the clipped end to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

Summary of sections: CE = clipped end (inked black). NCE = non-clipped end (inked blue)

SS = sequential sections from clipped to non-clipped end

10) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Distal right ureter, unclipped end is margin" and consists of a tan-white tubular
tissue fragment measuring 4.2 cm in length and 1.0 cm in average diameter. with attached adipose tissue measuring 0.6 cm in
thickness. There is a clip at one end of the specimen. On cross sections. the mucosa appears grossly unremarkable. The
specimen is sequentially sectioned from the clipped end to the non-clipped end and submitted entirely.

Summary of sections: CE = clipped end. NCE = non-clipped end. SS = sequential sections from clipped to non-clipped end

Summam of Sections:
Part 1: Urethral margin (fs)

Blocks Block Designation P63
1 FSC 1

Part 2: Right common Illac lymph node

Blocks Block Designation P05

1 BL1 2
1 BL2 2
2 BL3 2
1 LN 1

 

Page 4 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Part 3: Left common iliac lymph node

Blocks Block Designation P03
1 BLN 2
3 LN 4

Part 4: Right distal pelvic lymph node

Blocks Block Designation PCs

4 BLN 8
1 LN 1
4 QL1 4
4 QL2 4
3 TLN 3

Part 5: Left distal pelvic lymph node

Blocks Block Designation P65

3 BLN 6
3 LN 9
4 QLN 4

Part 6: Bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, peri vesicle lymph nodes

Blocks Block Designation PCs
ADD 1 0
LAB 1

_\
O

AdNNQ—Ab—LAA—J—A—LA—l—AAJ—A—I—A—L—AA
3%
<3
A‘NNQ—AA—l—LA—L—AA—AA—J—LAJ—AA—\_L

UTHM
Part 7: Presacral lymph nodes

Blocks Block Designation P03
2 LN 4

Part 8: Right distal pelvic lymph nodes #2

Blocks Block Designation PCs
1 LN 1

Part 9: Distal left ureter

Blocks Block Designation PCs

Page 5 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

1 CE 1
1 NCE 1
5 SS 10

Part 10: Distal right ureter

Blocks Block Designation P63

1 CE 1
1 NCE 1
5 SS 11

Special Studies:

Result Special Stain Comment
IMM RECUT
P16.
HPV
IMM RECUT
NEGATIVE.
ERG.
02-40
ERG.
02-40
IMM RECUT

Intraoperative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

1. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Benign ()
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: same

Initials

 

 

Page 6 of 6 END OF REPORT

