UUID: dBBGEAAF- 643A- 43F5- A54C- 6103A45AD68edd
TCGA- DK- A3IK- 01A- PR

lllll llllllllllll'll'llllllllllllllllllll'llllllllll III
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORTl

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med. Rec. #: ' Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: ' Location: , Date of Receipt:

Gender: M Service: Private Outpatient Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: OUTPATIENT

Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis & Histog:

Bladder cancer
/ C. A ~ 47 " .3
Specimens Submitted: .. . ‘ ,1 f -
: Right commom iliac lymph nodes (fs) ﬂirt/CMWWLA' “/7 ”MM, “”1 y”- 0/-3
: Left pelvic lymph nodes #1 (fs) 4 ~ _ . i7 a! ._ C b 7‘
: Left pelvic lymph nodes # 2 Ill->44 5/ﬂ' ' 1/ M I / [30.5 If
: Bladder. prostate seminal vesicles C4336 F1 ‘5 I‘M”; ”11/. 'W, c6 ‘7. 3’

Left common iliac lymph node

: Right vas deferens

: Left vas deferens

: Right common iliac lymph nodes
: Right pelvic lymph nodes

10: Pre—sacral lymph node
11: Right ureter. excision

6/171:

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

Right commom iliac lymph nodes (fs):
Part # 1
Lymph Node Dissection:
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.9cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.9 cm.
Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

Left pelvic lymph nodes #1 (fs):

Part # 2

Lymph Node Dissection:
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1 cm.
Extranodal extension is identiﬁed

 

Left pelvic lymph nodes # 2:
Part # 3
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 6

 

Bladder, prostate seminal vesicles: algal:

Part # 4 Reviewer Revvewed:

Tumor Type:

Urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation

Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS. with clear cell and squamold features
Histologic Grade:

 

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

High grade
Pattern of growth of the Non—Invasive component:
Papillary and flat
Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
Infiltrating
Tumor Multicentricity:
Identified
Bladder Local Invasion:
Perivesical soft tissues
Extraveslcal Tumor Extension:
Urethra involved
Periurethral prostatic ducts involved
Vascular invasion:
identified (extensive)
Perineural Invasion:
Identified
Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:

Exhibiting chronic cystitis

Exhibiting ulceration
Prostate:

Other ; high grade prostatlc intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN)

Seminal Vesicles:

Not involved
Perivesical Lymph Nodes:

Not identiﬁed
The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):

pT3 (Invasion of perivesicle soft tissue)

PRis (Involvement of urethra or prostatlc ducts without stromal invasion)

 

Left common iliac lymph node:
Part # 5
Lymph Node Dissection:
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.6cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.6 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

Right vas deferens, excision:
Benign vas deferens

Left vas deferens, excision:
Benign vas deferens

Right common iliac lymph nodes:
Part # 8
Lymph Node Dissection:
Number of lymph nodes examined: 3
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.7cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.8 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identified

 

Right pelvic lymph nodes:
Part # 9
Lymph Node Dissection:
Number of lymph nodes examined: 12
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.5cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.5 cm.

 

Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Extranodal extension is not identified

 

10. Pre-sacral lymph node:
Part # 10
Lymph Node Dissection:
' Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1

 

11. Right ureter, excision:
Benign ureter

i ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

"** Report Electronically Signed Out **"

 

Gross Description:

1). The specimen ls received fresh for frozen section, labeled "Right common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of two pink tan firm
lymph nodes averaging 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph nodes are bisected and submitted.
Summary of sections: FSC--frozen section control, PLN--possible lymph node

2). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "Left pelvic lymph nodes #1" and consists of a 2cm
lymph node. The specimen is representatively submitted for frozen section, the remaining is given to TPS protocol. Multiple
lymphoid fragments are identified on the container measuring 2.5 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm in aggregate, entirely submitted for permanent
section. Summary of sections: FSC - frozen section control. RT — remaining tissue

3). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left pelvic lymph node #2" and consists of six pink tan ﬁrm, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 1 to 2 cm in greatest dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes. BLN - bisected lymph node

4). The specimen is received fresh labeled, “bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles It consists of a bladder measuring 6 cm from
superior to inferior, 8 cm laterally and 9 cm from anterior to posterior and a prostate measuring 3 cm from superior to inferior, 3 cm
laterally and 2 cm from anterior to posterior. The anterior aspect of the bladder is inked black and the posterior blue. The prostatlc
urethral margin is shaved and submitted. The bladder is opened along the anterior midline to reveal an ulcerated diseoid lesion
measuring 8 x 6 cm which is grossly situated within the left posterior wall and extended to the left anterior wall. The lesion involves
the left and right ureteral oriﬁces. Both ureters are probe patent, measuring up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is
sectioned to reveal it extends to the fat. The remaining bladder mucosa is thickened and edematous. Discrete perivesical lymph
nodes are grossly not identiﬁed. The prostate is serially sectioned to reveal white nodular cut surfaces. Representative sections are
submitted including two sections from each prostatlc quadrant and transition zone. TPS is submitted.

Summary of sections: UTHM - urethral margin, RUM - right ureter margin, LUM - left ureter margin, L - lesion

RUO - right ureter orifice. LUO - left ureter oriﬁce. LP - left posterior wall. LA - left anterior wall, RP - right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall, TRI - trigone, DOM — dome, F - perivesical fat, RSV - right seminal vesicle, LSV — left seminal vesicle

RAP - right apex prostate, LAP - left apex prostate, RPM- right posterior mid prostate, RAM - right anterior mid prostate

LAM - left anterior mid prostate, LPM - left posterior mid prostate, RAB - right anterior base prostate

RPB - right posterior base prostate, LAB - left anterior base prostate. LPB - left posterior base prostate

ADD — additional sections of the prostate

5). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of two pink tan firm, fatty lymph
nodes measuring 0.7 and 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. All Identified lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph node, BLN - bisected lymph node

6). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Right vas deferens" and consists of a tubular piece of tan elastic tissue.
measuring 6.5 cm in length and 0.4 cm in average diameter. Representatively submitted.
Summary of sections: BE - both ends, RS - representative sections

 

Page 3 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

7). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Left vas deferens" and consists of a tubular piece of fan elastic tissue, measuring
4.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in average diameter. Representatively submitted.
Summary of sections: BE - both ends. RS — representative sections

8). The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "Right common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of three pink tan firm lymph
nodes ranging from 0.6 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes, BLN - bisected lymph node

9).The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of multiple pink tan, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 0.3 to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN - lymph nodes, BLN - bisected lymph nodes

10). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Presacral lymph nodes" and consists of six pink tan firm, fatty lymph nodes
ranging from 1 to 7 cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.
Summary of sections: LN — lymph nodes, TLN - trisected lymph node

11). The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Right ureter“ and consists of an unoriented tubular piece of tan elastic tissue.
with attached small amount of fat measuring 3.5 cm in length. There is a dilated end which measure 0.8 cm in diameter, the
opposite end measures 0.6 cm. Representatively submitted.

Summary of sections: DE — dilated end. OE — opposite end, RS — representative sections

Summagy of Sections:
Part 1: Right commom iliac lymph nodes (fs)

Block Sect. Site P03
1 {not entered} 1
1 FSC 1
1 PLN 1

Part 2: Left pelvic lymph nodes #1 (fs)

Block Sect. Site P08
1 FSC 1
1 RT 1

Part 3: Left pelvic lymph nodes # 2

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BLN 2
3 LN 4

Part 4: Bladder, prostate seminal vesicles

Block Sect. Site PCs
ADD
DOM
F

L

LA
LAB
LAM
LAP
LP
LPB
LPM
LSV
LUM
LUO

A—i—éA—L—L—L—l-L—imAAo)
OOOOOOOOOOOOOO’)

 

Page 4 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

RA
RAB
RAM
RAP
RP
RPB
RPM
RSV
RUM
RUO
TRI
UTHM

_x_:._\_x..l._\..s_\_s_x_s_s
OOOOOOOOOOOO

Part 5: Left common iliac lymph node

Block Sect. Site P65
1 BLN 2
1 LN 1

Part 6: Right vas deferens

Block Sect. Site PC:
1 BE 1
1 RS 1

Part 7: Left vas deferens

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BE 2
1 RS 4

Part 8: Right common iliac lymph nodes

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 BLN 2
1 LN 2

Part 9: Right pelvic lymph nodes

Block Sect. Site P05
2 BLN 4
5 LN 14

Part 10: Pre-sacral lymph node

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 LN 4
2 TLN 2

Part 11: Right ureter, excision

Block Sect. Site P05
1 DE 1
1 OE 1
1 RS 4

Intraoperative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

 

Page 5 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Frozen section diagnosis: Right commom iliac lymph nodes (fs): Metastatic carcinoma l ‘\.
Permanent diagnosis: Same

Frozen section diagnosis: Left pelvic lymph nodes #1(fs): Metastatic carcinoma.
Permanent diagnosis: Same

 

Page 6 of 6 END OF REPORT

