UUID:84525ASB-EEBZ-4913-999A-551C3586F20C
TCGA-IB-A7M4-B

~—-—-—~—-  ‘ , i ' mummiiimiiuummilliiﬁiﬁﬁimmmui'iﬁiiﬁiited
IHHlllllllllllilllllllllliilii
iiiilliii'iiiiiiiiHill'iiiiiummmmmmmnnunmIn

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Time Collected Time Received

 

 

Time Reported Time Transmitted

Order Number Ordering Provider

Status Final Relevant information
Location

Copied To

Report Patient Nam:

Demographics (for
verification purposes) Date of Birth:
Sex: M

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surgical Pathology Report*****

Accession Number
Collected Date/Time
Received Date/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description
Pancreas and spleen. part of left adrenal,

Clinical Information
Pancreatic mass.

:RW‘fRN“

Diagnosis
Pancreas. Spleen. and Portion of (Left Adrenal), Resection:

< Invasive poorly differentiated invasive ductal adenocarcinoma of the
pancreas (see synoptic report for details).

Reported by:

Electronicallv sioned hv:
Verified:

ZZ’iD-O~3

2 cued” “03
Synoptic Repirt
3PEC‘IMEN: c 95% 13

Body of pancreas
Tail of pancreas 6 E] W
Spleen 6&5. /

Portion of adrenal
PROCEDURE:

Partial pancreatectomy, pancreatic body [D/lo/lti
TUMOR SITE: %:

Pancreatic body

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 3.6 cm

Additional dimensions: 3.0 x 2.3 cm

545M. ,

“MAMA M. min—lair

. Page 2 of 3

 
   

HISTOLOGIC TYPE:

Ductal adenocarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

G3: Poorly differentiated

MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:

Tumor invades peripancreacic soft tissues
Tumor invades retroperitoneal soft tissue

MARGINS:

Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: O.A mm
Specified margin: Retroperitoneal
Invasive carcinoma involves posterior retroperitoneal surface of pancreas
TREATMENT EFFECT (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
Not known
LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:
Not identified
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pTJ: Tumor extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the
superior mesenteric artery
REGIONAL LYMPH MODES (9N):
9N1: Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 16
Number involved: 1
ANCILLARY STUDIES:
THC: VIM+, CTK19+, B34E12+, CEAp weakly +, calretinin weakly +, inhibin »
COMMENT(S):
The one positive lymph node is involved by direct extension

Gross Description
Received is a single specimen cor*““cc Tbe requisition and specimen container are
labelled with the patient’s name fhe cassette and are

labelled with the

Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "pancreas and spleen, part of
left adrenal“. The specimen consists of a partial pancreateccomy and splenectomy
specimen measuring 16.0 x 12.5 x 7.0 cm. The spleen measures 12.5 x 6.5 x 6.5 cm and has
a smooth capsule. On sectioning, the spleen is congested but no focal lesion are
identified. The pancreatic portion measures 11.5 x 5.5 x 4.5 cm. The proximal resection
margin is inked black. The superior margin is inked blue and the inferior portion is
inked green. on sectioning, arising in the mid—body of the pancreas is a firm
infiltrative white/grey mass measuring 3.0 x 3.6 x 2.3 cm. The tumor does appear to
extend out beyond the pancreas proper. Foci of cystic change and necrosis are seen. The
tumor is located 3.5 cm ﬁrom the proximal resection margin. It extends to within 3.3 cm
of the inferior portion and 0.4 cm of the superior portion. Note that in the midportion
of the specimen, a piece of adrenal gland tissue is identified, measuring 2.0 x 2.5 x 1,3
cm. The pancreatic mass is in direct juxtaposition to the adrenal gland. The
surrounding pancreas is otherwise-unremarkable.

A1 spleen

A2 splenic hilum

A3 proximal margin (shave margin)
A4aA5 tumor with adrenal

A6 tumor and inferior border

A7 tumor and superior border
A8—A9 additional tumor

A10 nonrneoplastic pancreas
Aii-niﬁ potential lymph nodes

Page 3 of 3

Pathologist Comment
Although grossly it appeared as though adrenal tissue was present, this could not be
confirmed with certainty on histology. Numerous pigment laden cells with an epithelioid
morphology were identified adjacent to the tumor, but these are believed to represent

macrophages rather than adrenal cortical cells.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

em...—

  
 

Dia nosis Discrepancy

Cmeﬂl ,’ .3! /}

Primary Tumor size Discrepancy

HIPAA Disaepancy

Dual/Synchronous Primary N . ,il-h
W / ms - ALIFIED

use [I (circle):

‘1‘:

 

    

 
   
    

