 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY:

PROCEDURE. DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:
Clea? Ia?) o

‘5 Mum
comm: ﬂ dam” My} ’0 8/40/3

WWLuMWF’" N05 3/A/o/3
Ere-Op Diagnosis SJEL \MJ’W N00 COD! ‘1

Prostate cancer
Post—Op Diagnosis IC%K)?IF7//:3
Same
Clinical History
Nothing indicated on requisition
Gross Description:
Received in a single container labeled "M-
prostate and left lymph nodes. " The specimen was received fresh and
intact and then was inked and sectioned for genomic studies. The
now fixed prostate gland with attached bilateral seminal vesicles
weighs as received 41 grams. Within the soecimen container are
three tissue cassettes labeled " ." The prostate
gland on reconstruction is approximately 5.0 x 4. 0 x 4. 0 cm with a
shaggy outer surface. rhe urethra appears grossly patent; however,
there appears to be compression of the urethra by the lateral lobes.
The cut surface shows multi~nodular rubbery bulging tan gray
fibrotic tissue. Noted in the left lateral aspect at a point
approximately 0.5 cm from the apical (distal) margin there is a
poorly defined approximately 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm area of tan gray
rubbery fibrotic tissue which is poorly defined focally extending to
within 0.1 cm of the nearest inked surface. Additionally noted in
the left posterior lobe near the vesical (proximal) margin is a
second 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm poorly defined area of similar
discoloration which focally extends to within 0. 2 cm of the nearest
inked surface. This is seen approximately 0. 5 cm from the proximal
(vesical) margin grossly and grossly appears to extend to the origin
of the seminal vesicles. The seminal vesicles together are 4. 2 x
1.0 x 1.0 cm with fragmented outer surfaces and multi~cystic tan
gray fibrotic out surfaces. On the left side this gray tan fibrotic
tissue extends for a length of 1.2 cm from the origin infiltrating

UUID: CSSCBCZS- BlFC- 45(5- AD7E- GFBA951R46eSBCac
TCGA- HC- A76W- -01A- PR

 

into the seminal vesicle:‘ The right seminal vesicle appears to be
less involved by this process grossly.

Also received in the same container are 4.0 x 3.2 x 1.0 cm of ten
yellow fibroadipose tissue fragments which on palpation and
sectioning reveal a few poorly defined indurated tan yellow nodular
regions up to 1.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted labeled
as follows: A - radial apical (distal) margin, left; 8 — radial
apical (distal) margin, right; C ~ shave vesical (proximal) margin;
D — left lateral lobe distal; E — right lateral lobe distal; F -
left posterior lobe distal; G - right posterior lobe distal; H _
left lateral lobe mid region; I — right lateral lobe mid region; J —
left posterior lobe mid region; K ~ right posterior lobe mid region;
L — left lateral lobe proximal region; M ~ right lateral lobe
proximal region; N — left posterior lobe proximal region; 0 — right
posterior lobe proximal region; P — origin of the seminal vesicles;
Q - representative left seminal vesicle; R — representative right
seminal vesicle: S and T ~ apparent nodular areas from separate
adipoSe tissue.

Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled —are examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Prostate (radical prostatectomy):
Prostate size:
Weight: 41 grams.
Size: 5.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade (Gleason pattern):
Primary pattern: Grade 3
Secondary pattern: Grade 4
Tertiary pattern: Grade 5
Total Gleason score: 3+4 + 7
Tumor quantification: Tumor size of dominant nodule: 2.0 cm.
Extraprostatic extension: Present, focally (see comment}.
Seminal vesicle invasion: Present. both right and left seminal
vesicle involved.
Margin status:
Tumor extends to cauterized margin along the left posterior lobe
proximal region consistent with transaction.
Bladder neck: No carcinoma identified.
Apical inferior margin: Carcinoma extends to within 1 mm of the
inked margin.
Treatment effect: Not identified (correlate clinically).
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular
space invasion identified. PBS 9
Lymph nodes, left pelvic lymph nodes, regional resection:
Reactive sinus histiocytosis and fatty infiltration, no metastatic
carcinoma identified within four lymph nodes (0/4) PAS 4

CPT: 88309, 88307

Stage: pTBbNO (see comment)

Comments

.«ﬁmm «r

W ,.. , wee-amt. .. . ”w “ﬂwm. .W.....a..s- rum.- . u v. V, w

This is staged as a pT3b lesion based on involvement of Eh; seminal
vesicle bilaterally. Please note it is staged as a pNO lesion as
there are no regional lymph node metastases, however, only one side
bf the pelvic nodee (left) were resected. Clinical correlation and
follow up is recommended.

At the left posterior proximal region, carcinoma extends up to the
cauterized margin consistent with transection. In addition,
carcinoma extends into the fibroadipose tissue in this region
consistent with extraprostatic extension. Clinical correlation and
follow up is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have

been additionally reviewed by Dr. “ who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This report has been finalized at the m ‘

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Dug msis Discrepancy

analv Tumor sue Discrenan;
HWAA Discrepancy

pnm Malignancy msmry “(U

) Dual/Syndmnnus Primar .

 

 

 

 

