CGAwBﬂ-4143

SUREHCPd.PATHCHJDGY

Diagnosis:

Left kidney, radical nephrectomy.

~ Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, tumor size 10 cm
in greatest dimension, nuclear grade 3 (of 4), extending
through capsule of kidney into perirenal adipose tissue,
involving lumen of renal vein with tumor present at margin
of renal vein.

— Adrenal gland with no tumor seen.

— Two perirenal lymph nodes with no tumor seen (0/2).

Comment:
None.

Clinical History:
with a left renal mass now undergoes left nephrectomy.

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled container.

Specimen fixation: formalin
Type of specimen: radical nephrectomy
Size and weight of specimen: 1? x 9 X 8.5 cm, 610 gm

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: present with no gross
abnormality noted

Tumor description: Predominantly solid yellow and tan/white
mass with a gelatinous appearance and irregular borders.

Tumor size: approximately 10 x 6 x 5.8 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: absent

Confinement/Non—confinement to kidney: appears to be
confined within the renal capsule and there is perirenal

 

fat around the tumor

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: tumor grossly does not involve
the perirenal adipose tissue

Renal vein: tumor is present in lumen of renal vein and is
present at margin

Ureter: not inVOlved

Other organs: the adrenal gland does not appear to be
involved

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: negative

Renal vein: positive

Renal artery: negative

Ureter: positive

Description of kidney away from tumor: unremarkable

Lymph nodes (hilar): there is one large hilar possible
lymph node which is bisected

Tissue submitted for special investigations: A portion of
the tumor and the non—tumorous kidney are given to tissue
procurement.

Block Summary:

A1~A2 — sections of the hilum

A3 — possible hilar lymph node bisected

A4 — adrenal gland

A5—A14 — representative sections of the tumor
A15 — non—tumorous renal parenchyma

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear
cell type

Histologic grade (if applicable): 3 (of 4)

Tumor size {greatest dimension): 10 cm

Extent of tumor invasion:

 

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: capsular
penetration identified with involvment of perirenal
adipose tissue

Renal vein: involved with tumor

Ureter: not involved

Lymphovascular: not involved

Adjacent organs: not involved

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
-Perirenal adipose tissue: margins negative
Renal vein: involved at margin

Renal artery: not involved

Ureter: not involved

Adrenal gland: not tumor seen

Lymph nodes: no tumor seen in 2 perirenal lymph nodes

 

