.TCGA—CH-5753
Diagnosis

1. Minimally to poorly differentiated muitifocal adenocarcinoma of the prostate (Gleason
4+5=9). Gleason 5 = 20%. Maximum tumor diameter 1.7 cm. Tumor involves approx. 30%
of total prostate. Tumor inﬁltration of left basolateral periprostatio fatty tissue (max. 1 mm
deep). Tumor inﬁltration of the right seminal vesicle. Multifocal tumor involvement of
perineural sheaths.

Foci of a prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (high-grade PIN) and signs of
myoglandular prostatic hyperplasia. Urothelium of prostatic urethra without dysplasia.

2. Right lymph nodes: two tumor—infiltrated lymph nodes (2/7).
3. Left lymph nodes: 3 tumor-free lymph nodes (OB).

Tumor classification
pT3b, max. tumor diameter 17 mm, tumor involving approx. 30% of the total prostate, Gleason
4+S=9 (Gleason 5: 20%), pNi (2/ 10)

Remark

The result of the prostate punch biopsy, Gleason 4+5=9, is conﬁrmed by this finding. Since the
status of the resection margin in unclear in the region of the right apex, further investigations will
be conducted.

An additional immunohistological investigation will be carried out to estabiish whether there is
any invasion of the vessels. The results will be presented in a follow-up report.

No evidence of the previously described mantle cell lymphoma could be detected in these
ﬁndings from the investigation of the lymph nodes.

Follow-up report

Microscopy
(HE, 1 tissue block, immunohistochemistry: AEl/AEB and 2 fuither tissue blocks in each case
immunohistochemistiy: D240 and CD31.

in the meantime, further step sections and a supplementary immunohistochemicai investigation
were carried out with suspected tumor involvement of the surgical resection margin in the region
of the right apex. Tumor cells here extend very nearly to the blue—labeled preparation margin. In
View of the very marked thermal artifacts in this region, however, it is difﬁcult to make any
assessment here. Individual cytokeratin—positive cells have questionable contact with the blue-
labeled resection margin, but no unequivocal evidence of tumor contact can be shown with
absolute certainty even after additional investigations, so the R status must most likely be
assumed to be R0.

The additional immunohistochemical investigation of two representative tumor blocks confirms
the presence of a tumorous invasion of the lymph vessels. No signs of blood vessel invasion
were found.

 

 

The final tumor classiﬁcation is thus as follows:
pT3b, maximum tumor diameter 17 mm, tumor involves approx. 30% of the total prostate,
Gleason 44-529 (Gleason 5: 20%), L1, V0, le (2/ 10), R0. '

 

 

