 

 

 

"umﬁzzrzazrgmtmt*mﬁmaﬁﬁﬁr.d ,u- 0 <5

Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll . . . hem/N05
m lIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illl C W. M” ”“L’ 3

llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllll 3590/3

 

 

SPECIMEN
A. Right axillary sentinel node 'dlu‘D
B. Right breast silk stitch marks superior breast

CLINICAL NOTES S'“- W, 0506] A,
PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right breast cancer N“
CLINICAL HISTORY: ' year old female with breast cancer.

POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right breast cancer

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Right aXillary sentinel node, biopsy: Three lymph nodes.
Negative for malignancy on frozen.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled
"A. right axillary sentinel node" and consists of a 5.5 x 3
x 1.5 cm. piece of fatty yellow tissue. The specimen is sectioned to
reveal three separate lymph nodes. One measures 4 cm. in greatest
dimension and shows prominent fatty replacement of the hilus.
Another node measures 1.5 cm. in greatest dimension and the smallest
lymph node appears to measure 1 cm. in greatest dimension. The lymph
node tissue is entirely frozen. The largest lymph node is sectioned
and entirely frozen as frozen sections AFSl and AFSZ. The medium
sized lymph node is entirely frozen as frozen section AFS3 and the
possible smallest lymph node is frozen as frozen section AFS4. RS4
kaa .
B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right )
breast" is a 24.5 cm. (superior to inferior) x 19.0 cm.
(medial to lateral) x 5.0 cm. (anterior to posterior) diffusely
cauterized soft, lobulated tan gold-white portion of fibroadipose
tissue in keeping with breast designated as right per requisition
slip and container and oriented by a single suture as stated
previously. There is a 7.5 cm. (medial to lateral) x 4.5 cm.
(superior to inferior) slightly wrinkled white skin ellipse with a
central, inverted, 0.5 X 0.5 cm. nipple along the anterior aspect.
The intact deep margin is inked black and the specimen is sectioned.
There is a stellate, 2.2 cm. (medial to lateral) x 1.6 cm. (superior
to inferior) X 1.3 cm. (anterior to posterior) tan white lesion at
the junction of the four quadrants subjacent to the aforementioned
skin ellipse. The lesion is 4.0 cm. from the inked deep margin and
1.7 cm. from the overlying skin ellipse. A 2.3 cm. (anterior to
posterior) x 1.3 cm. (superior to inferior) x 1.3 cm. (medial to
lateral) vacant biopsy cavity is present medial to the
aforementioned lesion. A portion of the lesion and a portion of
normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The cut surfaces throughout the remainder of the specimen consist
predominantly of glistening lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue
with a minimal amount of interspersed delicate tan—white fibrous
tissue. A single, 0.3 cm. "blue dome cyst" is identified within the
lower outer quadrant (see block 10). Representative sections are
submitted in 11 blocks as labeled. RS—ll.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Deep margin subjacent to lesion; 2 — lesion to
overlying skin ellipse; 3~6 - lesion and representative biopsy
cavity; 7 — random upper outer quadrant; 8 - upper inner quadrant; 9
— lower inner quadrant; 10 - lower outer quadrant; ll - nipple with
subjacent tumor.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Microscopic examination of the sentinel lymph nodes
from the right axilla involve evaluation of two H&E—stained
sections at the time of frozen section and an additional three

HaE—stained sections of each of the ti53ue blocks after formalin
fixation and paraffin embedding. Pancytokeratin AEl/AE3

immunohistochemical stains were also evaluated. Although no tumor
was identified on the original frozen sections, tumor was identified
in the permanent sections in the largest lymph node in blocks AFSl
and AFSZ. Overall, the metastatic tumor measures 8 mm in greatest
dimension. No extranodal tumor is identified (lea).
B. Microscopic examination of the right breast mastectomy
reveals

Invasive carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Infiltrating lpbular carcingma“
Histologic grade: ElstonHSBR’gradem§‘—”ﬁ_ﬂm
Overall grade: 2
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 1-2
Mitotic score: 1

Greatest dimension (pT): 2.2 cm (pT2)

Specimen margins: Completely negative for tumor (much greater
than 1 cm from tumor)

Vessel invasion: Not identified

Calcification: Focally present

Nipple (Paget's): There is no evidence of Paget's disease.
Invasion of skin or chest wall: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified

Description of non-tumorous breast: Prominent lobular carcinoma in
situ was
identified associated with the invasive tumor and towards the edge
around the invasive tumor. The background tissue shows
proliferative fibrocystic
changes with florid ordinary ductal hyperplasia and columnar cell
change,
cysts and microcysts, apocrine metaplasia and sclerosing
adenosis.

Comments: E-cadherin immunohistochemical stain was evaluated on
block 11 and demonstrated a lack of staining in both the invasive
and the in situ tumor,
helping to support the lobular interpretation.
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate pr.

Prognostic markers: Have been ordered on block 811.

Breast Prognostic Marker Report:

Results
% positive....Staining intensity
Estrogen receptor: ...... 80% Moderate— strong
Progesterone receptor:.. 30% Moderate
Her2/neu by IHC: ........ 2+
Interpretation
Estrogen receptor: ...... POSITIVE
Progesterone receptor:.. POSITIVE
Her2/neu by IHC: ........ EQUIVOCAL, BLOCK Bll SENT FOR FISH
Comments
Fixation time: .......... 30MIN

Cold ischemia time: ..... 62HRS

 

 

 

 

Prognostic markers were done by immunohistochemical stain on
paraffin sections from 10% neutral buffered formalin fixed tissue

using Ventana corporation antibodies on a Benchmark automated
stainer.

The Her2/neu antibody is clone 435 and has been approved by the
FDA as an aid in the assessment of breast cancer patients for whom
Herceptin treatment is considered.

This laboratory meets the test validation and quality assurance
requirements of the ASCO/CAP guidelines for Her2 and ER testing for
carcinoma of the breast (Arch Pathol Lab Med 2007;131:18-43. Arch
Pathol Lab Med 2010;134:907-922). ER,PR and HER—2 results are
scored using the recommended ASCO/CAP criteria.

4x2,14xl,15x3,20x2,25x3

DIAGNOSIS

A. Right axillary sentinel lymph nodes, biopsy:
METASTATIC LOBULAR CARCINOMA PRESENT IN 1 OF 3 LYMPH NODES.
Tumor 8 mm in greatest dimension, no extranodal tumor present
(lea).

B. Right'breast, mastectomy:
Infiltratingllgbglarwgarcinoma, tumor size 2.2 cm in greatest
dimen’s‘ion (pT2) .
Resection margins are negative for invasive carcinoma.
Lobular carcinoma in situ.
Proliferative fibrocystic changes and prior biopsy site
effects.
Estrogen receptor Positive
Progesterone receptor Positive
HER—2 Equivocal, block sent for FISH testing.
See microscopic description.

 

DIAGNOSIS

M.D. (Electronic Signature)

   

