Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient Name: Accession #:
MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Wait #2 . Received:
Gendec F Location: Reported:

, Facility:
Ordering MD:
Copy To:

 

Specimenis) Received W3; W?
I L}

1. Stem-Resection: total stomach 8. spleen/

2. Surgical Waste ?
3. Gallbladder 6h 9% 2 M
4. Stomach Resection: Proximal stomach . Q19 1

5. Stomach Resection: Distal & proximal rings C 94/0 b L12"? / I 3

 

Put T55“ NAM/10W deﬂated.

Diagnosis ' 3 5";
1. Total gastrectomy and splenectomy specimen: poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal neuroendccrine and w
neural differentiation, intestinal tvne. invading into submucosa, 1 of 30 lymph nodes positive for metastatic ~
adenocarcinoma (1/30). _ all resection margins clear, underlying moderate chronic gastritis. intestinal

metaplasia; spleen within normal limits. See synoptic report and microscopic description. 8(4.

2. Surgical waste: ﬁbroadipose tissue within normal limits, negative for dysplasia.
3. Gallbladder resection specimen: gallbladder within normal limits.

4. Proximal resection margin: negative for malignancy. uum: 86DA3537- agar 431F-SBE1-1D7F2982845eed
TCGA- KB- A6F7- e1A- PR

5. Distal and. proximal rings: negative for malignancy- ll lllllIllHiIlllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllialllllllllteaI
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|
llllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllillllillﬂilllillﬂlmm"

Synoptic Data

---------------- MACROSCOPIC-———~—-——-~----
Specimen Type: Total gastrectomy
Tumor Site: Body - Posterior wall
Body - Lesser curvature
Tumor Conﬁguration: Exophytic (polypoid)
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.5 cm
Additional dimensions: 2.7 x 1.7 cm
---------------- MlCROSCOPlC ___--__-_-------
Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, intestinal type
Histologic Grade: GS: Poorly differentiated

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pTib: Tumor invades submucosa
. pN1: Metastasis in 1 to 6 perigastric lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 30

 

Page 1 of 4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Number of lymph nodes involved: 1
pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
Margins: Proximal Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distal Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Omental (Radial) Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent
Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent
Perineural Invasion: Absent

Additionai Pathologic Findings: Gastritis (type): moderate chronic

 

Electronicallv verified by:

 

Clinical Histou
Ca Liver

Gross Description
. 1. The specimen container is labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Stomach—resection: Total stomach and spleen".

RESECTION SPECIMEN: e.g. en bloc resection of total gastrectomy with attached splenectomy.
FIXATION: Received fresh, placed in formalin

DIMENSIONS:

Length along lesser curvature 16.0 cm

Length along greater curvature 29.0 cm
Circumference of distal gastric margin 12.0 cm
Circumference of proximal gastric margin 5.5 cm
Length of tubular esophagus: No present

Width of tubular esophagus: Not present

TUMOR:

LOCATION:
— Gastric region: Corpus. lesser curvature. posterior wall

— CONFIGURATION: Exophytic, non-circumferential

— DIMENSIONS: Diameters 5.5 x 2.7cm
Depth of 1.7 cm

— DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: Villous type polyp with ulcerated surface. White tan cut surface with central well
circumscribed nodule measuring 1.0 cm in diameter.

- PERFORATION: No
— DISTANCE FROM MARGINS:
- PROXIMAL 3.7 cm

- DISTAL 12.0 cm
- RADIAL 0.5 cm (non peritonealized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration

ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION: Into submucosa.

LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: 4 polyps ranging from 0.2 to 0.4 cm. These come to within 9.2 cm of the
distal margin.

 

Page 2 of4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

ADDITIONAL STRUCTURES: There is a spleen adherent to the greater omentum, measuring 10.0 x 6.0 x 3.4 cm. The
capsule shows some ﬁbrous adhesions. Serial cuts are grossly unremarkable.

LYMPH NODES: Multiple perigastric lymph nodes along the greater and lesser curvatures are identiﬁed.

TUMOR BANKING: 2 pieces of tumor. 2 pieces of gastric mucosa
FROZEN SECTION: Proximal and distal margins submitted in blocks 1A-1B. .

REPRESENTATIVE SECTIONS:

1A-1B frozen section proximal resubmitted

1C radial section proximal margin closest to tumor

10 proximal edge of tumor with adjacent mucosa

1E-1 F full—thickness sections of tumor

16 distal edge of tumor with adjacent mucosa

1H-1l gastric mucosa with polyps

1J distal margin

1K spleen

1L—1N multiple lymph nodes per block. lesser omentum
1O 1 lymph node bisected, lesser omentum

1P representative slice, largest lymph node, lesser omentum
tQ—tT multiple lymph nodes per block, greater omentum
1U multiple lymph nodes, splenic hilum

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "surgical waste", contains 1 piece of tissue in 10%
buffered formalin. The tissue consists of a piece of ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 13.5 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm. A portion of ligament
is identified within the specimen. No gross abnormalities are identiﬁed.

2A representative section of soft tissue

3. The specimen is labeled with the patients name and as “gallbladder“
Resection specimen: Cholecystectomy

MEASUREMENTS:

Length.8.5 cm

Maximum diameter 2.7 cm

DESCRIPTION OF GALLBLADDER:

Serosa: Stained green, threadlike vascular pattern
Adventitial surface: size: 7.5 x 2.5 appearance: Unremarkable

Walt: Intact; 0.2 cm average thickness
Mucosa: Trabeculated

Contents: Green bile; no stones present.
Cystic duct:

~ stenosis: No

- stone in lumen: No

- intraluminal tumor. No

Cystic duct lymph node: No

FOCAL LESIONS: No

TISSUE BANKING; No
Page 3 of4

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

3A representative tissue

4. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "proximal stomach". The Specimen consists of a
wedge of mucosa measuring 1.2 x 0.7 cm. The specimen is bisected.
4A submitted in toto

5. The specimen container is labeled with the patient‘s name and as “distal and proximal rings". The specimen consists
of two ring-shaped pieces of mucosa measuring 1.7 and 2.2 cm each in diameter. The larger piece is closed with blue
suture material. Submitted in toto:

5A smaller piece

5B-5C larger piece

Quick Section Diagnosis
1. Proximal and distal margins negative for tumor.

Microscopic Description
Within the adenocarcinoma there is an area showing neuroendocrine differentiation (rosette formation and cytological

features). This area shows focal positivity for synaptophysin and GFAP. This component is negative for neuroﬁlament
The adenocarcinomatous focus is positive for: low molecular weight cytokeratin and pancytokeratin, CK‘IQ. focally positive
for CK20. The mismatch repair proteins are retained and the tumour is negative for EBV.

 

 

ﬂee \IP) I.\}5\\4’ w.

Diegncsls Disuepmcv

 

Primary Tumor Slle Discrepunt‘v

 

HIPAA Dia' tenancy

 

_APr.I‘u.r.I\{lalignimv Hutnry

Dual/Synchronous Primyv No
Laseisicirch-l j nﬂAunm )/ pisaupurlrn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i I

 

Page 4 of 4

_Rcvrewerlmi ls_ Miewedtrgr‘L; A f)‘
p—‘WI —— ft‘ttd )

 

