 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. -N.) LUNG, LEFT, WITH SUBCARINAL (N7), RIGHT HILAR (N10R), LEFT HILAR
(N10LX2), RIGHT AND LEFT LOWER PARATRACHEAL (N4R, N4L), SUBAORTIC (N5),
INTRALOBAR (N11 L), PULMONARY LIGAMENT (N9LX2), AND PARA-AORTIC (N6)
LYMPH NODES, PNEUMONECTOMY WITH REGIONAL LYMPHADENECTOMY:
- INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA.
- Involves left upper lobe and mainstem bronchus.
- 7.5 cm in maximum dimension.
- Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified.
- MARGIN STATUS: NEGATIVE.
- Bronchial and vascular margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
- THREE HILAR AND PERIBRONCHIAL) LYMPH NODES, OUT OF THIRTY TOTAL
LYMPH NODES, POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC CARCINOMA (3/30).
- SEE TUMOR STAGING SUMMARY BELOW.

PATHOLOGIC STAGING SUMMARY.
- Type and grade: Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.
- Primary tumor: pT3 (7. 5 cm in maximum dimension).
- Regional lymph nodes: pN1 (3 [hilar and peribronchial] out of 30 total lymph nodes,
positive for metastasis; 3/30).
- Distant metastasis: pMX.
- Pathologic stage: IIIA.
- Lymphovascular invasion: Present.
- Margin status: R0.

COMMENT. The above findings were discussed at—
Conference or_.

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Lung Tumor Staging Information

(data derived from current specimen,
Handbook, 7th Ed, and CAP protocol,

Specimen:
Procedure:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen Iaterality:

TUMOR FEATURES:
Tumor site: ‘
Tumor size:

Tumor focality:
Histologic type:
Histologic grade:
Visceral pleura invasion:
Tumor extension:

MARGINS:

Bronchial margin:

Vascular margin:

Parenchymal margin:

Pariental pleural margin:

Chest wall margin:

Other attached soft tissue margin:
Treatment effect:

Lymphovascular invasion:
Lymph nodes:

PATHOLOGIC STAGING SUMMARY:

Primary tumor:
Regional lymph nodes:
Distant metastasis:
Pathologic stage:
Margin status:

Additional findings:

staiini in accordance with or modified from AJCC Cancer Staging

Lung.
Pneumonectomy.
Intact.

Left.

Upper lobe and mainstem bronchus.
Greatest dimension: 7.5 cm.
Additional dimensions: 6 x 6 cm.
Unifocal.

Squamous cell carcinoma.
Moderately differentiated (G2).

Not identified.

Tumor involves main bronchus distal to the carina, but
does not involve the carina.

R0 (Negative).
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.

Present.

Three (hilar and peribronchial) lymph nodes, out of
thirty total lymph nodes, positive for metastasis (3/30).

pT3 (7.5 cm in greatest dimension).
pN1 (3/30 total lymph nodes).

pMX.

lllA.

R0.

Pulmonary edema, and post-obstructive pneumonitis.

 

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

Source of Specimen:
A. Lymph node;N7

B. Lymph node;N10R
C. Lymph node;N10L

D. Lymph node;N4R

E. Lymph node;N2R

F. Lymph node;N4L

G. Lymph node;N5

H. N11L

l. Lymph node;N9L

J. Lymph node;N9L #2
K. Lymph node;N7

L. Left Lung

M. Lymph node;N10L #2
N. Lymph node;N6

Clinical HistomlOperative Dx:
Left lung cancer

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
A. FSA: N7 - Negative for metastasis.

The intraoierativi interiretation(s) waslwere pegormed and rendered at—

B. FSB: N1OR - Negative for metastasis
C. FSC: N10L - Negative for metastasis.
D. FSD: N4R - Negative for metastasis.
E. FSE: N2R - Negative for metastasis.
F. FSF: N4L — Negative for metastasis. (

   
 
 
 

Gross Description: .

A. The specimen is labeled N7 and is received without fixative. It consists of a 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm
fragment of yellow-brown to anthracotic tissue which is entirely submitted for frozen section as FSA. The
tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette A1.

B. The specimen is labeled N10R and is received without fixative. It consists of a 1 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm
aggregate of yellow-tan to anthracotic tissue which is entirely submitted in for frozen section as FSB. The

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette B1 .-

C. The specimen is labeled N10L and is received without fixative. It consists of two fragments of yellow-
tan anthracotic tissue which measure 1 x 0.4 X 0.3 cm in aggregate. The tissue is submitted for frozen
section as FSC. The tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette
C1

D. The specimen is labeled N4R and is received without fixative. It consists of a 1 x 0.7 X 0.3 cm fragment
of fatty and anthracotic tissue which is submitted for frozen section as FSD. The tissue remaining from
frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette D1

E. The specimen is labeled N2R and is received without fixative. It consists of a 1 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm
aggregate of fatty appearing tissue. It is submitted for frozen sec‘ FSE. The tissue remaining from
frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette E1.

F. The specimen is labeled N4L and is received without fixative. It consists of a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm
fragment of pale yellow and focally anthracotic tissue which is submitted for frozen section as FSF. The
tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent section in cassette F1.

G. The specimen is labeled N5 and is received in formalin. It consists of a single 2.4 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm
fragment of yellow-tan and anthracotic tissue which appears to have been centrally partially transected. It
is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassette G1-G2-

H. The specimen is labeled N11L and is received in formalin. It consists of a 1 6 x 0.6 cm fragment
of gray-tan and anthracotic tissue. It is trisected and submitted in cassette H1.

|. The specimen is labeled N9L and is received in formalin. It consists of a 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm fragment of
fibrofatty tissue with three 0.2 - 0.3 cm discrete areas of anthracotic discoloration. The specimen is
submitted intact in cassette l1. -

J. The specimen is labeled N9L #2 and is received in formalin. It consis 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm fragment
of tan and anthracotic tissue. It is bisected and submitted in cassette J1

K. The specimen is labeled N7 and is received in formalin. It consists of seven fragments of tan to reddish
violet and anthracotic tissue varying from 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm to the largest fragment measuring 1.7 x 1.4 x
0.5 cm. The largest fragment is serially sectioned and submitted in cassette K1. A second fragment is

serially sectioned and submitted in cassette K2. Two fragments are serially sectioned and submitted in KS
(one inked). The three remaining fragments are submitted in cassette K4 (each inked and bivalved)-

L. The specimen is labeled left lung and is received without fixative. It consists of a pneumonectomy
specimen which weighs 628 grams. It measures 24 x 15 x 7 cm. The pleural surface of the left upper lobe
is pink-tan at the apical portion becoming consolidated red-violet and hemorrhagic in the basilar portion
of the lung. At the interlobar fissure there are multiple fibrous adhesions. The pleural surface of the lower
lobe is violet-tan adjacent to the interlobar fissure and is pink to pale tan along the basilar portion. At the
hilum of the lung the main bronchus is identified. The bronchus is surrounded by moderately firm

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

fibrofatty tissue with embedded anthracotic nodes. The upper lobe bronchus is obstructed with thick
mucous and possible tumor. The lower lobe bronchus appears patent. The bronchial margin is removed
as a thin shave and submitted for frozen section. Serial sections of the lung reveal glistening tan-white
tumor blocking and obstructing the upper lobar bronchus. Proceeding laterally tumor tracks outward along
the bronchi into the lung parenchyma over an area measuring 7.5 x 6 x 6 cm. There is consolidation and
yellowish firmness of the surrounding pulmonary parenchyma throughout most of the upper lobe. The
apical lung tissue is pink to tan and appears aerated. There is bronchiectasis of the lateral portion of the
upper lobe. The tumor does not involve the pleural surface but along the posterior apical portion of lung

is 0.3 cm from the pleural surface. There are additional anthracotic nodes along the lobar and segmental
bronchi. The superior edge of the inferior lobe appears consolidated and in one central area tumor is
within 0.7 cm of the inferior lobe. The parenchyma of the inferior lobe away from the interlobar fissure is
red and consolidated. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary: L1) bronchial margin
from frozen section, L2-L3) vascular margin, L4—L5) hilar nodes, L6-L7) representative larger peribronchial
nodes, L8) tumor plug in main bronchus, L9-L12) representative sections of tumor from upper lobe
progressing from main bronchus laterally, L13) tumor with closest approach to posterior upper lobe pleural
surface, L14) interlobar fissure with closest approach to tumor to lower lobe, L15) upper lobe parenchyma
away from tumor, L16) representative lower lobe parenchyma.

M. The specimen is labeled N10L #2 and is received in formalin. It consists of two 1.1 - 1.2 cm ovoid
fragments of gray-tan and partially anthracotic tissue. The tissue is serially sectioned and entirely
submitted in cassettes M1-M2 respectively

N. The specimen is labeled N6 and is received in formalin. It consists of a 1.3 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm fragment of
fibrofatty and anthracotic tissue. It is bisected and submitted in cassette N.

Microscopic Description: ,
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

D. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

E. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

F. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

G. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

rendered.

H. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

l. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

J. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagno’sis
rendered.

K. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

L. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

M. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

N. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reflected in the diagnosis
rendered.

 

