Dia nasis Discrepan
anary 'lumor Site nisuenmcy Page 1 or 2
HIPAA Discrepancy

v/"'\
.\ )

Prim Malignancy Hklorv
’r Dual/Synchronous Prim:
Case is (:lrcle):

  

Sex : F newewms me new Imam utmm MR # 2-
Surg Path Report N, b , 0, 3
a hoqu &¢(‘Max f07qL3
ACCESSION: 51h : (Lou/1‘1, A101 c5} 7 A» 9/67”

SOURCE OF TISSUE:
1. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE (IFS) 2. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES 3. RADICAL

HYSTERECTOMY SPECIMEN 4. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES

GROSS:

Specimen "No. 1" labeled "Right Pelvic Lymph Node" consists of one
1.5x0.5x0.5-cm tan portion of tissue. Half is submitted for frozen section
as "lFS". All tissue is submitted as "1Fs+l".

Specimen "No. 2" labeled "Right Pelvic Lymph Nodes" consists of fragments of
fibrofatty tissue measuring in aggregate 4x3xl cm. The specimen is
submitted as: "2A", one possible lymph node; “23“, one possible lymph node;
"2C“, remainder of adipose.

Specimen "No. 3" labeled "Radical Hysterectomy Specimen" consists of one
uterus without bilateral uterine tubes or ovaries, weighing 168 g and
measuring from fundus to cervix 8 cm, from cornu to cornu S cm, anterior to
posterior is 4 cm. The cervix is complete and received with vaginal cuff.
The cervical diameter is 2.5 cm, 09 is patent. An exophytic mass is
identified on the anterior and posterior aspect of cervix extending from the
6 o'clock position to 12 o'clock position and encompasses approximately one
half of exterior surface of cervix and extends into the endocervical canal.
The entire mass measures 3x2.8x2 cm. The endometrial cavity reveals a
spongy endometrium. Myometrium is homogenous and firm. Endometrial cavity
appears grossly uninvolved by tumor.

Summary of sections: One longitudinal slice through posterior wall of
uterus submitted inferior to superior with superior most slice bisected,
submitted respectively in "3A" through "3D"; additional section of mass from
posterior wall with vaginal resection margin, "3E"; one longitudinal slice
through anterior wall, submitted inferior to superior, superior edge inked
blue for reference, "3F" through "3H" respectively; anterior vaginal cuff,
"3I"; left lateral parametrium, "3J"; right lateral parametrium, "3K";
additional section of mass with vaginal cuff at posterior wall, "3L".

Specimen "No. 4" labeled ”Left Pelvic Lymph Nodes" consists of fibrofatty
tissue measuring 7x5xl cm. The specimen is submitted as: "4A", six
possible nodes; "4B", three possible nodes; "4C", one possible node.

(Dictated by —)-

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSI
1FS) Benign lymph node .(Confirmed on paraffin
section)

MICROSCOPIC:
Synoptic Summary for Cervical Carcinoma in Radical Hysterectomy

Changes of prior conization: Not identified
Size in largest dimension: 3 cm

How much of the circumference of the cervix is involved: 50%

UUID:1FBD6F5F-52DB-4DA3-ABlD-BB£12OOA6328
TCGA—EK-AZRC-BlA-PR Rﬁﬂmilfed

 

 

o 0

Thickness of tumor and total thickness of the wall of cervix in the same
region: 19 mm in an area where cervix is 2 cm in thickness (2L)

Page 2 or 4

Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Present (3A)

In situ carcinoma: Not present

Distance to vaginal resection margin: 6 mm (slide 3E)
Right and left parametrium: Negative for carcinoma

Type of carcinoma and degree of differentiation: Squamous cell carcinoma,
well differentiated

Right and left pelvic lymph nodes: 16 pelvic lymph nodes negative for
carcinoma (6 right pelvic, 10 left pelvic nodes)

Incidental findings in other submitted tissues: Benign secretory
endometrium

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

Uterus: Radical Hysterectomy:

Invasive squamous cell carcinoma (well differentiated) without lymph node
metastasis (please see synoptic for details)

This case was reviewed at our daily QA conference with agreement as to the
above diagnosis.

19 blocks ﬂ ..n

As the staff pathologist, I have personally examined all slides and relevant
information about this case and have discussed them with Dr.
and arrived at the diagnosis that is recorded in my report.

Diagnostician:
Staff Pathologisc
Electronically Signed

 

-———__

Page created:

16‘

 

