‘ UUID:2649764C-9566-49DB-58E9-84886DBB763C
TCGA-A7-A4SA-B1A-PR Redacted

llllllIlllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllllmllHllllllll
lllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||||

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure:

Diagnosis

A. Sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: One lymph node with metastatic
carcinoma (1/1).

E. Breast, left, mastectomy: Invasive pleomorphic lobular carcinoma,
size 2.2 cm in greatest dimension; negative margins of excision.

C. Breast, left nipple core, biopsy: Negative for malignancy.

D. Lymph nodes, left axilla, lymph node dissection: Nine negative
lymph nodes (0/9).

Microscopic Description:
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type: Lobular (E—cadherin negative)
Histologic grade: 2 (pleomorphic lobular)
Overall grade: 7/9
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3 (focally - the tumor consists of a mixture of
conventional and pleomorphic lobular carcinoma, with nuclear
grade ranging from 1—3)
Mitotic score: 1
Greatest dimension (pTZ): 2.2 cm
Specimen margins: Invasive carcinoma is 2 mm from the anterior
margin, and there is lobular carcinoma in~situ (nuclear grade 1-2)
focally 0.5 mm from the anterior margin. Carcinoma is 1 cm from
the deep margin.
Vessel invasion: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified
Comments: Prior biopsy site identified within the tumor
Lymph nodes: Keratin staining performed on negative lymph node blocks
to confirm the absence of carcinoma.

Number of positive nodes of total: One of ten lymph nodes with
metastatic carcinoma (1/10)

Size of largest metastasis: 7 mm

Extracapsular extension (present/absent): Negative
lea
/CA- or}
Prognostic markers: See previous core biOpsy,
2‘ , 1, \é.‘//2né [Mu/w N05

5 ' 6 JM f M I
peCimen

A. Left axillary sentinel node #1, hot, blue étfktyﬂg

B. Left breast, stitch at Liza: .
C. Left nipple core 31$: WA”; éfbﬁi

3. Left axillary contents

M/My/J/
Clinical Information
Left breast cancer

Intraoperative Consultation
A) Metastatic carcinoma.
CFS: Nipple, core biopsy: No evidence of invasive carcinoma.

Gross Description

A. Received unfixed for frozen section, labeled left axillary sentinel
node #1, hot, blue , is a fat—replaced lymph node, 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.7
cm, bisected and frozen in two blocks.

B. Received unfixed, labeled with the patient's name, medical record
number and "left breast — stitch at 12:00." The specimen consists of a
nipple sparing simple mastectomy oriented by a stitch at the 12:00
position. The specimen is 14 x 14 x 3.5 cm. The deep surgical margin
is painted black and anterior margin over tumor is painted green. On
cut section at the 6:00 position there is a firm spiculated tan tumor
mass which measures 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. A portion is submitted for
tissue procurement. The tissue surrounding the mass contains dense
fibrocystic changes. The mass comes within 4 mm of the anterior margin
and 1.5 cm of the deep margin. The remainder of the breast tissue
consists of firm fibrofatty tissue. Representative sections. BLOCK
SUMMARY 1-3: Tumor mass with anterior margin, 4: Deep margin nearest
tumor, 5, 6: Breast tissue immediately adjacent to the tumor mass, 7:
Upper inner quadrant, 8: Lower inner quadrant, 9: Upper outer quadrant,
10: Lower outer quadrant

C. Container C. is labeled with the patient‘s name, medical record
number and "left nipple core“. The specimen consists of a single piece
of soft yellow tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. All submitted in

D. Received fresh labeled "left axillary contents" is a 5.7 x 3.9 x 1.7
cm aggregate of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. Several
slightly rubbery tan—pink—red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring up to 1.9 cm are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are
entirely submitted. . Summary: 1 ~ 4 lymph nodes, 2 — 3 lymph
nodes, 3 and 4 — one lymph node per cassette

 

