 

QC Pathologist:
*** AnnFNDUM REPORT ***

Addendum Final Diagnosis:

Two additionai tymph nodes are identified in the gross
specimen. No malignancy is identified.

Addendum Gross Description:

Per the request of the surgeon, the specimen is re-examined

in search for additionai lymph nodes. The mesenteric fat

is placed in lymph node Revealing Solution. Upon fixation
there reveals two additional possible lymph nodes that

measure 0.3 and 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. Each of the
iymph nodes have been bisected and submitted in cassette A14

Addendum Renort Issued By:

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSiS:

A. Rectosigmoid colon, partial cotectomy:

Tumor Characteristics:

Histologio type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologio grade: Weti differentiated

Tumor site: Rectosigmoid coion.

Tumor size: Circumferential 3.5 x 3.0 cm tumor.
Lymphovascuiar space invasion: No.

Microscopic tumor extension:

. Tumor extends through the entire thickness of the
muscularis propria.

Surgicai Margin Status:

1. Proximal margin: Negative

2. Circumferential margin: Negative.

3. Distai margin: Negative.

4. Closest tumor margin: 3 cm from the distal margin.
Lymph Node Status:

1. Thirteen tymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma.
Other:

1. pTNM stage: T3.

B. Sigmoid colon rings:

Coionic mucosa negative for malignancy.

mowewwe

*4

..' -;r
.:,;£‘-n ﬂ'.
.‘

7-.

1h

 

 

(IKJNHVH-N ’ H. 7 V 7” 7 —

CLINICAL HISTORY
Preoperative Diagnosis: Cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:
SPEClthENS:

A. Rectosigmoid colon

B. Sigmoid colon rings

PROCEDURAL DE '
Date of Procedure:
Accession DatelT i

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The first container A is labeled with the patient's name
. The specimen consists of a segment of
rectosigmoid colon measuring 14 cm in total length and up to
2 cm in diameter. The proximal margin is open. The distal
margin is stapled. The serosal surface of the bowel is gray
to brown«tan with hemorrhage. The attached mesentery is
yellow to brown—tan aiso disptaying hemorrhage. On opening
the bowel the mucosal surface is light tan. There is a
circumferential brown—tan nodular mass, 3.5 x 3.0 cm that is
3.7 cm from the distal margin and 6.2 cm from the proximat
margin. On sectioning the mass it extends into the
underlying bowel wall, but does not grossly penetrate
through the serosa and is 1.5 cm from the deep resected
margin. The surrounding colon is gray-tan and reveals
normal folds. On sectioning through the mesentery there are
17 probable lymph nodes that measure from 0.2 up to 0.7 cm.
Received with the s ecimen are two cassettes. one gray and.
one yellow labelecmRenresentative sections are
submitted in cases es a e e as follows:
proximal margin block 1'. distal margin block 2; sections
from mass in blocks 3-7; surrounding uninvolved colon block
8; lymph nodes submitted in total as follows: six probable
nodes block 9; four probable nodes block 10; one probable
node bisected in block 11; two probable nodes each bisected
in block 12; four probable nodes in block 13.
B. The second container 8 is tabeled with the
— sigmoid colon rings. The Specimen consists of
two crrcu ar fragments of bowel measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0
and 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. The mucosal surfaces are brown-tan
with slight hemorrhage. Representative section from each
«Mm—1 piece is _tal3en and is submitted in a single cassette labeied

 

1r.

 

