UUID: 55385959-ms1-4546-A723-55A31521om
TCGA-HZ-A4BK-01A-PR Red

acted
IllllllilllHHlllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllillllllllllllll|||
III III |||||||||||||Hllilllllllllll ll Illlllll
m"twill“illilllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllillllliilIIII

 

i
l
l
i
i
i
ii
i
i
i
l
r
l
l
V‘

 

Sex: Male
0.0.3.:

4 , _ MRN #: ‘ «M
, > ' Refthwu... _, “'

   
    
  
 

* pechen imam-inﬂow
Accession #:
Acct} hag e:

 

 
 

   

' Collected:
Received:

Rewind:

 
      
   
   

UlAGNOSIS‘ '

  
 

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Cellar: iymph node, excision including (rozen section examination:

Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Tumor replaces a 2.5 cm maximum lymph node and extends outside the lymph node oapsuie.

Permanent sections confirm the frozen section impression.

 

B. Gallbladder, cholecysteaomy:
chronic choiacystitis.

 

..<.__-_....._ A ,

C. ‘Pancreas. pancreatic duct, margin. including frozen section examination:
Negative for malignancy.

Chronic pancreatitis.
Permanent sections confirm the frozen section impression. ‘

 

 

D. Pancreatic margin, biopsy including frozen section examination. /
Microscopic focus at adenocaroinoma identified in a background of chronic pancrealilis, ,
i

E. Doudenum and head of pancreas, excision including frozen section examination: {I

Tumor Characteristics: 1’
1. Histologic type; Adenocaminoma. i
2. Histologic grade: F ocaiiy poorly differentiated. ‘
3. Tumor Site: Head of pancreas. !
4. Tumor size: 4.7 x 4.5 x 4.2 cm. 2
5. Microscopic tumor extension: :

Tumor involves the head of the pancreas and extends into the soft tissue surrounding the portal vein as wall as the common bile duct.
54 Lymphovescular space invasion: Yes. [i

7. Perlnoural invasion: Yes. I
Surgical Margin Status: . i

1. Tumor involves the portal vein and the tissue surrounding the common bile duct by frozen section. permanent sections conﬁrm the frozen section

impression. Permanent sections also demonstrate the radial margin of the pancreatic resection to be irilvoived by tumor.

Lymph Node status: .
1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 4 lymph nodes including specimen A above identiﬁed. i

Lymph nodes demonstrating adenocarcinoma two {214).
2. Largest involved node measures 2.5 cm.
Other:
i. Diner significant ﬁndings: Chronic pancreatitis.

i
l
l
l
2. pTNM stage: pT3, N1. i

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   
 
   

       

-1~»«;—'GEWCAL¢. lNFQRMAIlG-ni'w —-.‘

., =-......;.u.i..;.......:... W...

CUNIBAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis: year old Caucasian male, cancer heart of patcraas
Postoperative Diagnosis:

SymptomsiRadiologlo Findings

SPEClMENs:

A. calico lymph node- FS.

8. Gallbladder.

C. Pancreatic duct margin — F5.

D. Pancreatic margin - F3.

E. Duodonum and head of pancreas - FS.

 

 
   
    
 
   
  
 

 

- vSPEClMEN DATA '

 

GROSS BESCRlPTlON: '— .
A. Container A is labeled calico lymph node, #1. Received for frozen section and subsequently placed
tan—white lymph node with attached fatty tissue. A portion of the lymph node is submitted (or frozen section.
for permanent in cassette Al labeled '

 

formalin. is a 25 x 1,5 x 1.5 cm. lirm.
- frozen section remnant is resubmitted

Representative sections of the remaining lymph node are submitted in cassettes A2~A4 labeled

8. Container B is labeled 6 illbiadder. Received in formalin, is an 8.4 x 4.2 x 3.7 cm. distended gallbi. . .2 er. The across is smooth, slightly
dusky. gray-tan The lumen contains viscous green bile; there are no calculi within the gallbladder, cystic duct, . in the container. The gallbladder
mucosa is diffusely groan, velvety with a marked amount of cholesteroiosls and the wall is up to 0.3 cm. thick.

Representative sections are Submiilad in cassette Bl labeled

C. Container 0 is labeled t pancreatic duct margin. Received for frozen section and subsequently plac in formalin, is a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm.
portion ol yellow-tan tissue. Ine specimen is submitted for frozen section. The frozen section remnant is room mitten for permanent in cassette Cl
labeled 5

0. Container 0 is labeled iancrestlc margin. Received for frozen section and subsequently placed int , is a 1.3 cm. in greatest

dimensions portion of tan-mm: wit tissue. The specimen is inked and submitted for frozen section. The ooze section remnant is ire-submitted for
permanent in cassette Di labeled

Er. Container E is labeladl duodenum and head of pancreas. Received in formalin is a Whipple resection consisting of 28.5 cm. long by 4.6 cm.
diameter portion of duodenum and an 8.0 x 5.7 x 4.0 cm. head of pancreas. The soft tissue margins nearlha p ncreatlc head are inked black. Go
section, the pancreatic paranchyma gives rise to an ill-deﬁned, 4.7 x 4.5 x 4.2 cm. induraled. locally cystic, tan- bite tumor. Tumor extends to the
anterior and superior inked soft tissue. Tumor does not grossly involve the ampulia; however, proximal to the a pulla, tumor extends into the sorosa of
the small bowel. Examination of the minimal amount oi fat surrounding the. pancreas reveals two, up to to cm. greatest dimensions smooth tan-white
lymph nodes.

Reprasontaﬁva sections are submitted for Genomic studies in three cassettes labeled
Representative sections are submitted for frozon section. The frozen section remnarna are resubmitted for per anent in cassettes E1 -E4 labeled
Representative sections of the remaining specimen are submitted in cassettes labeled 1 as lollows: E5—rapresentative of distal small bowel
resection margin: 5&6? bisected ampulla; 684310 pancreatic tumor to anterior salt tissue; E1 M: 12 rapressrrta a pancreatic tumor to superior soil

tissue; Elia-«representative posterior soil tissue; ism-representative uninvolved pancreatic parenchyma; EiS—E 6 tumor to small bowel proximal to
ampuila; Ei7sreprssentalive uninvolved small bowel; E1 B-one sectioned lymph node in toto; Elli-one bisecl lymph node.

 

m n mﬂPERATWE COMSULTATlON:
A. FROZEN SECTlON DiAGNOSiS: Metastatic adanccarcinoma par“

    
 
 

Small:

_ . . :iﬂrLoglchiteUlsc
C. FROZEN SECTiON DlAGNOSlS: Negativoi «w M I

. alznanL
PI

    
     

     
 
    
 
   

 

is

0, FROZEN SECTION QIAGNQSlS: Atypical, tailor reactive pot
-- ——-~-«~—--—-r—-r—,, , » .. "7—1

a. FROZEN SECTlON DlAthOSlS: El. Duodenum-negatlvc. £2. Uncinale-nagativa. E3, Donalvsin-nrisilivn E4. common bile duct-mucosa i
—negative.softlissue—oositive allDer ' ’ " ' i "

 

.. .lL_ . _ ,Wm- W..-“ .. W

 

