  

BEA—AK - 3431

Lrt_i.._. < -

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right renal mass.
Source of Specimen(s):

A: Lipoma

B: Right kidney and right adrenal

C: Portion of Vena CavaThrombus

Gross Description:
Received in three parts.

Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #l ”lipoma”

Gross Description: The specimen is received fresh in a container labeled
with the patient‘s name designated ”lipoma" and consists of a yellow
rubbery mass measuring 7.5 x' 5 x 4 cm. Sections disclose encapsulated
moist glistening adipose tissue. No areas of hemorrhage, cysts or
calcifications are noted. Representative sections are submitted in IA

and 1B.

Designation of Sections:
Summary of Sections:

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2 "right kidney and right adrenal"

Gross Description: The specimen is received fresh in a container labeled
with the patient‘s name designated "right kidney and right adrenal" and
consists of a radical nephrectomy specimen weighing 1640 gm with an
overall measurement of 28 X 17 x 10 cm. There is an appreciable amount of
perinephric fat encompassing the specimen. Superiorly in the fat, there

is a 5 x 3 x 1.5 cm adrenal gland. The gland is red to orange with no

gross lesions or masses found. At the hilum, the ureter measures 10 X 0.5

x 0.5 cm and is patent. The ureter is opened and is grossly free of

lesions or masses. The perinephric fat is unable to be removed from the
kidney. The kidney is bivalved. The kidney is markedly asymmetrical and
distorted due to a large yeliowish»tan to orange tumor measuring 11 x 10 x
8 cm. The lesion obliterates the inferior fold and inferior and central
calyces. No gross invasion through the capsule is proven. Medial

laterally and superiorly, there is some more normal appearing renal
parenchyma with well defined corticomedullary gritty junctions. No lymph
nodes are found.

Designation of Sections: 2A ureter and vascular margins, 2B tumor in renal
pelvic, 2C—2D tumor pushing on renal capsule, 2E~2F grossly viable tumor,
2G uninvolved right superior pole of kidney, 2H fat overlying tumor, 2I
adrenal gland, 2J—2L peiinephric fat at hilum.

Summary of Sections: A—K

acxvsasmswkwxmsrwaaxsmhss«xxmaxwwsvwsxswmswamsaxswsssissxstrx

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled #3, "portion of vena cava thrombus"

 

Gross Description: Received fresh with patient identification is a 2.5 x
1.0 x 0.6 cm tan to tan-pink rubbery firm tissue fragment which is
entirely submitted in one block.

Designation of Sections: Block 3
Summary of Sections: undesignated-multiple

Final Diagnosis:

1. Soft tissue, subcutaneous right flank (excision):
— Fibroadipose tissue consistent with lipoma.

2. Right kidney and right adrenal gland (right radical nephre'ctomy):

— Conventional (clear cell) renal adenocarcinoma, rtide 3 (11 cm) Ii . ited
to the kidney, no capsular invasion, unifocal. E
— Ureter and vascular resection margins negative.
- No angiolymphatic invasion identified. _
Diffuse type diabetic nephrosclerosis with arterial nephrosclerosis.
Adrenal gland uninvolved by tumor.

. I,./‘

I

3. Vena cava thrombus (excision):
Calcified atherosclerotic plaque and organized thrombus.

» No tumor seen.

Stage: pT2,Nx,Mx.

FC Cytogenetics Tumor

Results—Comments

CYTO GENETIC ANALYSIS REPORTS

DIAGNOSIS: Right Renal Mass

KARYOTYPE: Normal-karyotype: 46,XX{20}

RESULTS: The renal mass was harvested after seven and eleven days in
culture. The chromosomes from twenty metaphases were counted and
analyzed, and three of these metaphases were karyotyped by G—banding. The
modal chromosome number was 46, and the cells appeared to have a normal

karyotype. These normal results may reflect an overgrowth of normal
interstitial or adjacent tissue rather than tumor.

 

