 

UUID: ESBBEEGF- 7102- 4771- 8954- 7064313R70e121a
TCGA- XU-A933- O1A- PR

iiiﬁa‘lliﬂ'ﬁéiﬁf:mﬁil'iiiiinii§hl"kim"'"'"'

 

Patient Name

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Resulted:
Gender: Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

SPECIMEN (S) RECEIVED

1. Thymus: mediastinal tumour thymoma — stitch marks superior RIGHT pole .1152; 1

of thymus I 7:: :35

2. LUNG: portion LLL. JW W [23
3. LUNG: portion of lingula 4.1.), M gaggé
DIAGNOSIS ‘37 a

1. Thymus, resection: Cqéx) nygaljzj

a) Consistent with thymic carcinoma, non— keratinizing squamous cell
type. with:
1) Greatest tumor dimension = 4.5 cm
ii) Multifocal invasion of-mediastinal adipose tissue
iii) Invasion into mediastinal pleura, with tumor cells present
<0.1 mm from pleural surface (see COmment)
iii) Thymic resection margins negative for tumor (closest
thymic margin 0 4 cm — see Comment)
b) One of three (1/3) lymph nodes, positive for metastatic carcinoma
c) Thymic tissue with focal thymic cysts, follicular (lymphoid)
hyperplasia, and involutional changes

2,3. Lung, wedge resections (left lower lobe, lingula):
— Organizing phase diffuse alveolar damage, with possible
prdgression to fibrosis (see Comment)

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Not specified

TUmor Site: Thymus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 4.5 cm
Histologic Type: Type C thymoma (thymic carcinoma),
epidermoid nonkeratinizing carcinoma] lymphoepithelioma— like carcinoma
Pathologic Staging. Stage IIb: Macroscopic capsular

Status: complete Page: 1 of 4

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name

MRN: Service: ; . J Collected
DOB: Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:r Location:

Facility:

ordering MD:

 

inVasion

Regional Lymph Nodes: le: Metastasis in anterior
mediastinal lymph nodes

Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margin(s) involved by tumor

. Margin(s): tumor cells present <0.1
mm from mediastinal pleural surface '

Invasion of Pulmonary Parenchyma: Absent
Pleural Invasion: Present
COMMENT

1. Sections of the thymic tumor show a partially encapsulated tumor
composed of nests and sheets of large, cytologically malignant cells
involving thymic tissue, with overt invasion into the surrounding adipose
tissue (gross and microscopic). Mitoses are abundant (>30/10 hpf). The
tumor focally invades into an apparent pleural surface (presumably
mediastinal pleura), where it is present very close to (<0.1 mm) the
painted surface of the specimen, with only minimal intervening fibrous
tissue. Hear the mid—left lobe, tumor cells are noted microscopically
0.4 cm from a thymic resection margin (silver nitrate present on a nest
of thymic tissue). One lymph node adjacent to the tumor shows a deposit
of metastatic carcinoma. By immunohistochemistry, the tumor cells stain
positive for low molecular weight keratin, P63, CD5, and CD117, and
focally positive for high molecular weight keratin and CK5/6. The cells
are negative for BBV by in situ hybridization. Approximately 20% of the
tumor cells stain positive for nib-1. The tumor is associated with focal
aggregates of CDZO-positive lymphocytes as well as with occasional
infiltrating CD3—positive lymphocytes. CDIa stains dendritic cells as
well as lymphocytes within residual thymic tissue, but the
tumor—associated lymphocytes are negative for CDla. The overall findings
are in keeping with thymic carcinoma, pT3N1 (mediastinal pleural
invasion, anterior mediastinal lymph node metastasis).

2,3. Sections of both lung wedges show similar features, with diffuse
interstitial chronic inflammatory infiltrates associated with organizing
pneumonia, intra-alveolar edema with proteinaceous material and foamy
macrophage accumulation, interstitial fibrosis, and pronounced reactive
pneumocyte hyperplasia. Most of the interstitial fibrosis has a recent,

Status: complete Page: 2 of 4

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name

MRN: Service: Collected
DOB: Visit #: Resulted: . .'
Gender:F Location:

Facility:

ordering MD:

 

organizing appearance, and the underlying parenchymal architecture is,
for the most part, preserved. However, occasional small areas with
denser fibrosis and possible early architectural remodeling are noted.
The small airways show focal chronic inflammation that includes
occasional lymphoid aggregates. The blood vessels show reactive changes,
but no evidence of active vasculitis. Viral cytopathic effects are not
identified. Granulomas and hyaline membranes are not identified. Fungal
organisms are not identified in a ens—stained section. The overall
findings are consistent with organizing phase diffuse alveolar damage,
possibly with progression to fibresis. The underlying etiology is not
apparent light microscopically. Correlation with clinical findings is
needed to exclude potential causes such as infections and drug reactions.

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY

CLINICAL HISTORY
rule out thymoma

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen container labeled with the patient' 5 name and as
'Mediastinal Tumour Thymoma —Stitch Marks Superior Right Pole of Thymus",
contains one piece of yellow~tan fibrofatty tissue with a suture
designated as superior right pole measuring 11.5 x 8.5 x 2.0 cm. and
weighing 58.9 g [fresh] received in 10% buffered formalin. The specimen
is painted with silver nitrate. The right lobe measures 8.6.x 4.4 x 1.5
cm and left lobe measures 11.5 x 4.5.x 2.0 cm. Within the mid—left lobe
there is a firm tan mass measuring 4.5 x 2.8 x 2.0 cm, the surface of
which protrudes from the specimen and appears smooth. 0n cut sections,
the tumor grossly appears to infiltrate the surrounding fat. Four pieces
of tumor and three pieces of normal tissue are submitted for tumor bank.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

1A— 1C right lobe from superior to inferior.

in — 1J Left lobe from superior to inferior (1E - 11 mass)

1L-1R remainder of tumor in toto

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's identification and as
"PortiOn of LLL'.

Resection specimen: Wedge resection.

Measurements: 3.1 x 1.6 x 0.4 cm. The stapled edge measures 3.5 cm and

Status: complete Page: 3 of 4

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name.

MRN: Service: Collected
DOB: ' . Visit #: Resulted:
Gender. : r ' Location :

Facility:

Ordering MD: ,, ' ~v

 

is painted with India ink.

Pleural surface: Congested with surface adhesions.

Lung parenchyma: Brown and spongy

Masses Or nodules: A firm tan ?nodule is identified measuring 1.1 x 0.6
x 0.5 cm and measures less than 0-1 cm from the painted stapled resection
margin

Tissue Banking: No

Submitted in toto as follows:
2A shavings from stapled edge
23- 2C ?nodule >

2D remaining lung resection

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's identification and as
l'Por:tion of Lingula".

Resection specimen: Wedge resection.

Measurements: 4. 6 x 3. 4 x 1.1 cm. the stapled edge measures 4. 5 cm and
is painted with India ink

Pleural surface: Congested with focal areas of surface adhesion

Lung parenchyma: Brown and spongy with query an area of fibrosis
Masses or nodules: No
Tissue Banking: no

Submitted in toto as follows:
3A shaving from stapled edge
33— 3E specimen serially seCtioned

awe/I3

 

Status: complete Page: 4 of 4

