UUID: 85750CA3- 2185- 4F-37 -BAB7- -CCE0511R2CeSZSc
TCGA- TS- ASAY- -91A- PR

'IIl'Iii'"“"iiii'r'l'iiii:Lilliill'illi'ii'i"'

  

Print Date;
Date Collected: ’
Date Received. ,

'ge:- years Seszemalc AccessiooN
Physician:
Copy to:

 

Surgicalvatnulnnv Bannrt

Accession Number Collection Date/Time Received Dater'I‘ime Verified Datefl‘ime Pathologist

Clinical Information
year old female with mesothelioma; Left Thoracotomy, Bronciioscopy, PDT, Total Pleurectomy

Final Diagnosis

1 PREVIOUS lNCtSi ON:
Skin and underlying soft tissue with changes consistent with previous site, no tumor seen
Calre’linin stain confirms absence of mesolhelioma

2 RIB:
Bone with trilinear bone marrow formation and tenosynovial type soft tissue and iibromuscular soft tissue no tumor seen

3. PERIAORTIG TiSSUE;
Fibrotatty soft tissue, no tumor seen.

4‘ LEVEL 5:
Sections of tymph node, no tumor seen.
CK5/6 stain confirms

5 PHRENIC NERVE:
Fibrotatty soft tissue with prominent peripheral nerve fibers and significant acute inflammation
Fragment of soft tissue with presence of mesothelioma.
4 1,60) -
6t LEVEL 7’:

Sections of lymph node, tumor present. , 7 210m LUV) ‘13“2‘ unLQLi-ﬁi Mir Zia/[j—

Calretlnin stain confirms 90 5

7*. LEVEL 5/6: bit \ﬂauzwg N05

Sections of iymph node, no tumor seen. 0 68 Cl
CKSI’S stain confirms

-, 9? D 5 Z 3‘ )1 I
8. POSTEFNOR INTERCOSTAL:

Sections of lymph node, tumor present.
Calretlnln stain confirms

9. PLEUFIA:

Mesothelioma epithelioid type closely associated but not invading lung tissue
Tumor comes close to skeletal muscle.

No definite muscle invasion identified (QC).

Name: Page 1 of 4
MRN:

Print Date:

Date Collated:

Date Receiver-1:3

'ger years Sex: Female Accession No~
Physician:

Copy to:

 

surgicalratnologv BEﬂDfl

Accession NIIWr Collection Dotefl‘lme Received Date/Time Veriﬁed Date/Time Pathologist

The tumor is positive for {32—40, calretinin, AEt-a, CKSXB and WTi and negative for (DEA, M00 31 TTF‘l and CW 5,
confirming presence of mesothelioma.

to. iNTERLOBAR NODE:
Sections of lymph node, no tumor seen.
CKSIS stain confirms

The case material was reviewed and the report verified by: _7
(Electronic signatme}
Veriftutiion Date:

Note

Mesothelioma

i

Histologic Type
Epithelioid mesothelioma

Margins

Cannot be assessed

Lymph nodes
Specify: Number examined: 5 levels
Number involved: 2 levels

Pathologlc Staging (pT3 Nt Mx)
Staging discussed with surgeon

Frozen Section Diagnosis
F31: Soar: No tumor seen at area of skin scar marked by surgeon.

F82: Periaortic Tissue: No tumor seen.

Dx Called To: .

Name: Page 2 of 4
MRN

Print Date:
‘ Date Collected:
~ Date Received:
'Agc: years Sex: Female Accession No-

Physician:
Copy to:

 

Surgical P'atltulullil Benoit

Accessioi VI imber Collection DatelTi me Received Dateﬂ‘ime Veriﬁed Date/Time Pathologist

Gross Description
The case is received in it) containers, each labeled with the patients name and medical record number.

Specimen iii is received fresh for frozen section, designated as “Previous Incision“ and consists of 2112.3 x (3.6 cm skin
ellipse excised to a depth of 1.2 cm. The skin surface is tan-white, wrinkled and slightly puckered. The Specimen has been
oriented by the surgeon with a stitch on an area of interest, which is submitted entirely for frozen section as F81 and the
frozen section control is submitted in cassette 1A. Additional representative sections of the remainder of the specimen are
submitted in cassette tB.

Specimen #2 is received in formalin, designated as "Rib“ and consists of four cylindrical portions of rib ranging from 1.9 to
5.7 cm in length and averaging 1.2 cm in diameter. There is a moderate amount of attached red~brown, rubbery muscle.
Sectioning reveals fanwred, trabecu‘lated out surfaces. No discrete masses are grossly identified. Representative sections
are submitted in cassette 2A following decalciiication.

Specimen #3 is received fresh for frozen section, designated as "Peri~Aortic Tissue“ and consists of a 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm
tan~whlte to tan~yellow, irregular soft tissue fragment, which is submitted entirely for frozen section as F82 and the frozen
section control is submitted in cassette 3A.

Specimen #4 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 5" and consists of 511.2 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm gray-black, indurated,
nodular soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal gray~black, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted
entirely in cassette 4A.

Specimen #5 is received in formalin, designated as “Phrenlc Nerve“ and consists of two ragged and irregular to roughly

cylindrical lan~grey, glistening soft tissue fragments measuring 2.9 and 15.? cm in greatest dimension. The Specimen is
serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassettes 5A and SB.

Specimen #6 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 7" and consists of a 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm tan-gray, nodular soft
tissue fragment. which is bisected to reveal tan—gray, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette
6A.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 5/6“ and consists of a 3.6 x 2‘2 x 0.9 cm fragment of tan-yellow
adipose tissue, which incorporates four rubbery, possible lymph node ranging from 0.9 to i .6 cm in greatest dimension.
The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes “IA.

Specimen #8 is received in formalin, designated as "Posterior lntercostal“ and consists of three tan~ye|fow, irregular soft
tissue fragments ranging from 0.3 to 1.? cm in greatest dimension. The larger fragment is bisected to reveal tan-gray,

Nam i Page 3 of 4
MRN:

Print Darts:
Date Collected
Date Received:‘

Physician: l
Copy to:

  

 

Surgicatl’atnologv BBBIII'I

Accession Number Collection Date/Time Received Datefl‘ime Verified Date/Time Pathologist

gtistenirtg and cut surfaces. The larger fragment is submitted entirely in cassette 8A and the remaining two soit tissue
fragments are submitted in toto in cassette 8E3.

Specimen #9 is received in formalin, designated as "Pteura" and consists of a 25‘? x 12.7 x 5.8 cm ragged and irregular
portion of tan~gray, tirm tissue which have a moderate amount of attached red—brown, rubbery muscle, tan‘white
tendinous tissue and tan~yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals tan~white to tan—pink, firm, tabulated,
glistening thickened areas, measuring up to 8.7 x 6.5 x 1,? cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 9A

through 9E.

Specimen #10 is received in formalin, designated as “interlobar Node" and consists of two tan~grayg rubbery, nodular to
ragged and irregular soft tissue fragments measuring 1.9 and 3.? cm in greatest dimension. The larger fragment
incorporates four possible lymph nodes ranging from L2 to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. Each possible lymph node is
bisected and submitted entirely in cassettes 10A through 108, respectively.

Dioiated by: ,

Pathologist(s)

(p/Lo‘a or my
_Cieri4

     
  
  

\N

‘t' \:&i ~—— 3/41
7 e» freer
4.— lmﬁﬂ~ -J
\~\:gwm use

‘l‘““l“\i

Nam Page 4 of ti»
M :

