  

TCGA-BP—4797

 

 
 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Dale of Receipt:
Date of Raped:
Account it:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy to:

   

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
Diagnosed case of right renal tumor; upper pole measuring 5.0 x 3.4 cm on CT scan.

Sgecimens Submitted:

1: Kidney, right; total nephrectomy

2: Lymph nodes, paracaval and precaval; excision

3: Adrenal gland. right. and supra hilar lymph nodes; resection

Rule out RCC of right kidney.

 

 

DEAGNOSIS:

1.

Kidney, right; total nephrectomy:
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma — Conventionai (clear cell) type

F unrmen Nuclear Grade:
Nuciear grade iii/EV

Turner Size:
Greatest diameter is 4.5 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Involves renal sans fal

Renai Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed . ‘
invasion Into muscuter branches of renal vein in the renal slnus is identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
Unremarkabie

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not Identiﬁed

Siaglng for renal cell cerclrromafoncocytoma:
pT3b Tumor grossly extends into the renei veln(s) or vena cava below the diaphragm

2. Lymph nodes, perecavai and precavei; excision:

Lymph Nodes:
Number of nodes examined25

 

Page 1 of 3

 

Number of metastatic aodesd)

........................................................

3. Adrenal gland, right, and suprahilor lymph nodes; resection:
Benign adrenal gland.
No lymph node tissue identiﬁed.

EMTEST THAT THE ABOVE DiAGNOSlS ES BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMENATEON OF THE SLFDES (ANDIOR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THATI HAVE
REVlEWED AND APPROVED THiS REPORT.

 

 

Special Studies:
Result Special Stain Comment

RECUT
RECUT
RECUT

Gross Description:

1).The specimen is received fresh labeled “right kidney" and consists of a kidney with attached ureter. renal vessels and
perinephdc lat weighing 320 g in total. The kidney measures‘t t .0 x 5.0 x 3.5 cm. The attached ureter measures 6.5 cm in length
and 0.5 cm in diameter. The attached renal vein measures 1.2 cm in length and 0.? cm in diameter. The renal vessels and ureter
margins are grossly unremarkable. The adrenal gland is not present. The kidney is inked green and blvaived to reveal a 4.6 x
3.0 x 2.8 cm inﬁltrating. soft. variegated tan! yeltcwired tumor mess wlth extensive hemorrhage. located in the upper pole and
extending to the sinus and the renal capsule. Sections through the remainder of the kidney reveal a pink brown paranchyma. with a
wall~detlned corticomteduliary junction. The cortex measures 0.5 cm and the calycas appear normal. There are no lymph nodes
identiﬁed in the perinephric let. A representative section of the tumor was sent for frozen section. The specimen is
photographed. Representative sections are submitted for TPS and for permanent sections.

Summary of sections:

FSC -- frozen section control

UVM -- ureteral and vessel margins

in tumor (tumor with capsule in block 2)
- Ti—iF-- tumor with hilar fat

TSF .. tumor with sinus fat

TK v tumor with adjacent kidney

RP .. renal pelvis representative sections

K -- representative sections kidney _

2). The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "Paracaval and precaval lymph nodes " and consists of multiple pink tart ﬁrm
lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. Ali identiﬁed lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN .. lymph nodes
BLN» bisected lymph nodes

3).The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "Right adrenal and suprahiler nodes" and consists of an adrenal gland with a
moderate amount of attached adipose tissue. with a trimmed weight of 8.5 g. The adrenal gland measures 6.5 x 2.2 x 1 .0 cm. with
a yellow red cortical medrrllary lunction and. small redxbrown hemorrhagic loci in the medulla. No lymph nodes are grossly
identiﬁed. Representative sections of the adrenal and the surrounding tissue are submitted.

Summary of sections:

 

Page 2 cl 3

 

Aw adrenal
U -~ surrounding tissue

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney, right; total nephrectomy

Block Sect. Site P03
1 {not entered} 1
t k 1
1 rp 1
2 t 2
“i tht ‘i
l tk l
2 let 2
1 own 1

Part 2: Lymph nodes, paracaval and preoaval; excision

Block Sect. Site P05
1 bin 1
i In 1

Part3: Adrenal gland. right. and supra hilar lymph nodes; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 a 2
t u t

Intraoperative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION oreenosrs: RENAL conrtcru. NEOPLASM. -
PERMANENT ornanosrs: SAME

 

Page 3 of3 END OF REPORT

