,-o—3 V ‘
£me 2705/!“7' We! $19k”?
Sikh W: W161! N175 073. (I ’/q/I(

,La/

6'

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Patient Name: Accession #:

MRN: Service: ‘ Collected:

DOB: . Visit #: ‘ Received:

Gender BA Locaﬁon: 2 Reponed: /
HCN: ' ' Facility: ‘ “ ‘
Ordering MD:

Copy To: ””1”i“225333319317é‘iﬂ‘ﬁiﬁ‘°°5°”°‘°§‘§

 

T dacted
I, iiil’ili'ii‘lilliiiiiiiiiii‘iili'iillii‘iil'iliii'll"'
S ecimen s Received
1. chz ﬁght neck content such mm apex lll lllllllllllllllllllllllll llll llllill lllllll l l" l llllllllll
2. ch: Posterior triangle right neck
3. Neck: Posterior apex Right neck
4. Thyroid: total thyrodectomy stitch marksupper pole fresh for tumor banking
5. Parathyroid: Right upper parathyroid

 

Diagnosis
‘4etastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma with extranodal extension: Lymph node, 1 of 4 (right neck) dissection specimen

0 pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 9 (right neck posterior triangle) dissection specimen.
3. No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 9, (right neck posterior apex). dissection specimen

4. Papillary carcinoma, 1.5 cm, classic variant, right, with positive resection margin: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid, left
-Total thyroidectomy specimen

5. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right upper) biopsy

Synoptic Data

Procedure: Total thyroidectomy with right neck dissection
Received: Fresh
Specimen integrity: [intact
Specimen Size: ’ Righ lobe:
‘ . cm
2.4 cm
1.4 cm
Left lobe:
2.9 cm
2.0 cm
1.0 cm
Isthmus +/— pyramidal lobe:

2.5 cm
~ 1.5 cm
0.6 cm

--».— ‘ Page1of3

 

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ., -

 

Right neck dissection:

10 cm
. 3.5 cm
2.9 cm
. Specimen Weight: 11.1 9
Tumor Focality: Unifocal
--------------- DOMlNANTTUMOR--------------
Tumor Laterality: Right lobe
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 1.5cm

Additional dimension: 1.5 cm
Additional dimension: 1.5 cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, ciassicallyglal)
Classical (papillary) architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margin(s) involved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular invasion: Present, extent widely invasive

Lymph-Vascular invasion: indeterminate

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT1 b: Tumor more than 1 cm but not more than 2 cm in greatest dimension, limited to
the thyroid

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1b: Meta’stases to unilateral, bilateral or contraiateral cervial or superior

medastinai lymph nodes

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 22
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 1
Lymph Node, Extranodal Extension Present

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenomatoid noduie(s) or Nodular follicular disease
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits

Parathyroid gland(s), other: left
*Pathoiogic Staging is based on AJCC/UlCC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Comment
4. Many areas are highly suspicious for vascular invasion, however unequivocal evidence is not found.

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Clinical History
papillary ca thyroid

Gross Description

1. The specimen labeled with the patient’s name and as "right neck contents” consists of a piece of ﬁbroadipose tissue
that measures 10.2 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. One suture marks the apex. On sectioning, the specimen contains one well deﬁned
lesion measuring 2.6 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm close to the apex, 2 lymph nodes that measure 1.0 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm each, and one
piece of muscle measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

1A—D large lesion transected and submitted in toto

1 E two lymph nodes

 

Page 2 of 3

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "posterior triangle right neck" consists of a piece of ﬁbroadipose
tissue that measures 5.0 x 3.5 x 0.8 cm and contains multiple lymph nodes that range from 0.3 to 0.5 cm. Representative
tions are submitted as follows:
23 multiple lymph nodes

3. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "posterior apex right neck" consists of a piece of ﬁbroadipose
tissue that measures 3.3 x 1.7 x 0.6 cm and contains multiple possible lymph nodes that range from 0.2 to 0.3 cm. Tissue
is submitted in total as follows:

3A multiple possible lymph nodes

3B, C remainder of ﬁbrofatty tissue submitted in toto

cm AP. The remainder of the thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of the nodule and left lobe normal tissue are
stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

4A-F right lobe, superior to inferior

4G, H isthmus

4i~L left lobe, superior to inferior

5. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as "parathyroid: Right upper parathyroid" consists of a very small
piece of tan tissue that measures less than 0.1 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
5A frozen section block resubmitted

' uick Section'Dia nosis
5. Right upper parathyroid: Parathyroid tissue, '

 

 

Page 3 of 3

