___—-—_-—-“wlawmwﬁﬁvw

Surgical Pathology Report
Name: *- Case #: - .

 

DOB: P Collected: -
Gender: Received: /

MRN: n Reported: ‘

Location: Copy To: -
Physician: _ ,

 

Pathologic interpretation:

A. Sentinel node #1 CT41 left axiiia: [CD ’ J '3 ,
- No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1). CW] WW M4 NI; R: 04/3

-Keratln immunohistochemistry pending. 57%;, 5 ‘ No; C {a 9 W /;/
1 V 3/ /I

B. Left axliia sentinel node #2 count 2. ..
' N0 carcinoma 59°“ in °“° lymph node W1)- uum:“952454-nos-4msue-annuals“
- Keratin immunohistochemistry pending. TCGA-EN-AlPC-D1A-PR Rlellliillaliuted

~ No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (011).

C. Right axllia sentinel node #1 count H”
- Keratln immunohistochemistry pending. I“ I

|
|
D. Left breast:

- lNFiLTRATING DUCTAL CARCINOMA. poorly differentiated, Nottingham grade 3 (3+3+3=9), 6.0 cm in greatest

dimension.

- The tumor infiltrates the dermis.

- Lymphovascular invasion is not identiﬁed.

- Margins free of tumor.

1’
- See tumor summary. l... un- u
, .v ..."‘i If"

T m um a v Iv c rci om ofthe rest 0' BMW/u

Specimen Type: Partial breast
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)
Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterallty: Left'
Tumor Size: Size of Largest invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 6.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 5.5 x 4.0 cm
Tumor Focality: Single focus of invasive carcinoma
Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor:
Skin: invasive carcinoma directly invades into the dermis or epidemic without skin ulceration
Skeletal Muscle: Skeletal muscle is present and is free of carcinoma
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ: No DClS is present
Histologic Type of invasive Carcinoma: invasive ductal carcinoma (no special type or not otherwise speciﬁed)
Histologic Grade:
Glandular (Aclnar)ri'ubuiar Differentiation: Score 3
Nuclear Pleomorphism: Score 3
Mitotic Count: Score 3
Overall Grade: Grade 3
Margins: Uninvoived by Invasive carcinoma
Distance from closest margin: 15 mm (inferior)
Specify margins:
Distance from posterior margin: 20 mm
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgicai Therapy:
in the breast: No known presurgicai therapy
In the lymph nodes: No known presurgical therapy
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed
Dermal Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identified
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 2
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentinel): 0
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 0
Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases: 0

 

”I SURGICAL PATHOL Report a

*

Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells: 0
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). one level
lmmunohistochemistry pending
Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pT3
Regional Lymph Nodes:
Modifier: sn
Category: pN0 (pending immunohistochemistry)
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:
Estrogen Receptor: Pending
Progesterone Receptor: Pending
Hertz: Pending

AJcc classiﬁcation (7“ ed) [ﬁll me MX (pending evaluation of keratin in sentinel nodes)

E. Right breast:
~ DUCTAL CARCINOMA iN SiTU, intermediate grade (DIN2) with expansive necrosis, solid and crlbriforrn types.
- The largest focus is 3 mm. and it is present in 3/15 slides.
- Resection margins negative.
- Proliferatlve iibrocystic changes including intraductal papilloma (5 mm), columnar cell changes without atypla. apocrine
cell metaplasia. stromal fibrosis and microcyst formation.
- See tumor summary.
- Two tibroadenoma. largest 11 mm.

Tum r8umme D l H T

Specimen Type: Total breast (including nipple and skin)
Procedure: Total mastectomy (including nipple and skin)
Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node(s)
Specimen Integrity: Single intact specimen (margins can be evaluated)
Specimen Laterallty: Right
Tumor Size: Size of Largest Invasive Carcinoma: Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 0.3 cm
Number of blocks with DClS: 3
Number of blocks examined: 15
Histologlc Type: Ductai carcinoma in situ. Classified as Tis (DCIS) or Tls (Paget)
Architectural Patterns:
Cribriform
Solid
Nuclear Grade: Grade Ii (intermediate)
Necrosis: Present. central (expansive "comedo' necrosis)
Margins: involved by DCiS
Distance from closest margin: 2mm
Treatment Effect: Response to Presurgicai Therapy: No known presurgicai therapy
Lymph Nodes:
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 1
Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinel and nonsentlnel): 1
Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases: 0 /
Number of lymph nodes with mlcrometastases: 0 /
Number of lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells: 0 /'
Size of largest metastatic deposit: 0
Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes:
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level
lmmunohlstochemistry pending
Pathologlc Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor: pTls (DCIS)
Regional Lymph Nodes:
Modifier: sn
Category: pNO (pending immunohistochemistry)
Distant Metastasis: Not applicable
Ancillary Studies:

w - - Page 2 of 5

 

 

m SURGICAL mum Report a...

Estrogen Receptor: Pending
Progesterone Receptor: Pending

AJCC classiﬁcation (7"' ed) pTls (DCIS) ano MX (pending evaluation of keratin in sentinel nodes)

“*Electronlcaliy Signed Out By‘“

NO TE: Some immumhlstochemtcal antibodies are enalyte specie reagents (ASRs) validated byou laboratory (Her 2. Parve. H. pylori, Haws). These ASRs are ethically useful Mission that do
nolreeu're FDA approval. These done: are used: ID5=ER. Pol? 638=PR. “same-m. H41=£GFR. CCHWDGPCMV, F39.4.1=ARend HPV by 18H. M innumehtuochembei who are used
win Iormai'n or molecular ﬁxed, paratlin embedded tissue. Detecwn is by LSAB. The results are read by a pathologist es posrim or negative.

As the attend'ng patlnioglst. I attest that l: (l) Examined the relevant
preparetbnw hr the specinents): end (i) Rendered the magmas).

Procedures/Addenda
Addendum Date Ordered: ‘ 1 Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: "' '
Date Reported:

Addgndum Diagnoslg

A. Sentinel Node #1. Left Axilla:
- lmmunohistochemistry for keratin ls negative.

8. Left Axilla Sentinel Node #2:
- immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.

C. Right Axilla Sentinel Node #1:
- lmmunohistochemistry for keratin is negative.

D. Left Breast :
- The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR (focally). They are negative for HER2 (score 0) by
lmmunohistochemistry.
- Final AJCC staging: pT3. an0(i). Mn/a.

E. Right Breast:

- The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR by lmmunohistochemistry.
- Final AJCC staging: pTls (DCIS) . an0(1-), M nla

. -_, MD, PhD

lntraogeratlve Consultation

A. Sentinel node #1 CT41 left axilla touchprep:
No carcinoma seen In frozen section and touch prep. Final diagnosis defer for permanent.

B. Left axiila sentinel node #2 count 31 touch prep:
No carcinoma seen in frozen section and touch prep. Final diagnosis defer for permanent.

C. Right axilla sentinel node #1 count 79 Touch prep:
No carcinoma seen in frozen section and touch prep. Final diagnosis defer for permanent.

 

”I u— ‘- pagesots

D SURGICAL PATHOL Report !’

W

Clinical History:
Not provided

 

 

Pre Ogerativg Diagnosis:
Not provided

Specimen(s) Received:

A: Sentinel node #1 CT41 left axiiia touchprep

B: Leﬁ axiiia sentinel node #2 count 31 touch prep
C: Right axiiia sentinel node #1 count 79 Touch prep
D: Left breast (1 stltlch superior. 2 lateral. Fresh)

E: Right breast (1 stltlch superior. 2 lateral. Fresh)

Qross Description:

A.

Received fresh and labeled “sentinel node #1 left axiiia. touch prep’ is a yellow-tan. irregular-shaped. soft tissue
fragment measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. Specimen bisected and submitted in toto In one cassette for frozen section.

Received fresh and labeled 'left axiiia sentinel node #2 count 31. touch prep' is a yellow-tan, ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring
1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. Specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen section and touch prep.

Received fresh and labeled “right axiiia sentinel node #1 count 79. touch prep' is a yellow-tan. irregular-shaped. soft
tissue fragment measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. Specimen bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette for frozen section
and touch prep.

Received fresh and labeled 'lelt breast (1 stltlch superior, 2 lateral)‘ is a left radical modiﬁed mastectomy measuring 21.0
x 19.0 x 4.0 cm and weighs 750 grams. The skin is light tan. ellipse. measuring 21.0 x 16.0 cm. Areola is 6.0 cm in
maximum diameter and nipple ls impressed and very hard measuring 2.5 cm in maximum diameter. The specimen is
oriented with one stitch at superior and two stitches at lateral. The surgical margin is inked in black. Sectioning reveals a
yellow-gray. well defined. tumoral mass measuring 6.0 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm. This tumor is 60% necrotic with focal hemorrhage.
No calciﬁcation is noted grossly. This tumor is located beneath of nipple. The remainder of mammary tissue ls
yellow-white. fibrofatty tissue. No other lesions ls identiﬁed grossly. This tumor is located at less than 0.1 cm from
superﬁcial (skin nipple). at 1.5 cm from inferior surgical margin. at 2.0 cm from deep surgical margin and the rest of the
surgical margins are away more than 4.0 cm from this tumor. The specimen is submitted in ﬁfteen cassettes as follows:

Perpendicular section superior margin
Perpendicular section Inferior margin

Perpendicular section medial margin

Perpendicular section lateral margin

Perpendicular section of nipple in relation with tumor
Perpendicular section deep margin

Tumor in relation with nipple and skin

8&9 Hemorrhagic and necrotic area

10-13 Tumor

14&15 Mammary tissue

Nmmme—b

Received fresh and labeled “right breast (1 stltlch superior. 2 lateral)” is a right radical modiﬁed mastectomy measuring
20.0 x 15.0 x 4.0 cm and weighs 522 grams. The skin is light tan ellipse measuring 16.0 x 14.0 cm. Areola measures 6.5
cm in maximum diameter. The nipple measures 1.5 cm In diameter. The specimen is oriented with one stitch at superior
and two stitches at lateral. The resection margin is inked In black. Sectioning reveals gray-tan. ﬁbrocystic area measuring
7.0 x 7.0 x 3.0 cm. located at 1.0 cm from inferior surgical margin. at 2.0 cm from medial margin. at 3.0 cm from lateral
margin. at 3.5 cm from superior margin. at 0.5 cm from deep surgical margin and Immediately beneath the nipple. Deep
ﬁbrocystic area has multiple cysts up to 1.0 cm in maximum diameter. The cysts are ﬁlled by brown-tan chocolate and
green tan purulent material. Remainder of mammary tissue is gray-tan. ﬁbrofatty tissue. unremarkable grossly. No other
suspicious lesions are Identiﬁed grossly. Submitted In ﬁfteen cassettes as follows:

1 Perpendicular section superior margin
2 Perpendicular section inferior margin
3 Perpendicular section medial margin
4 Perpendicular section lateral margin

 

 

 

m u i Page 4 015

 

' M SURGICAL PATHOL Report ‘ gt

5 Blsected of nipple

B Perpendicular section deep margin

7 Necrotic tissue

8 Hemorrhagic necrotic area with deep surgical margin
9-14 Flbrocystlc and necrotic mammary tissue

1 Unremarkabie mammary tissue

lCD-Sts): 174.8 233.0

Tumor Sit!
'III’AA
’rlor

Last: is
'evie «or lnilisl) Revue wed:

 

 

N - — Page 5 of 5

