( Page 10f3

UUID :15égg2-2302:::Ev9£fg&l;-P;A9 -4B7 FDOSASZSA
II
||
||

 

R Redacted
lllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllﬂlllllllllll

llllllllhllllll lllllllllll|lllllllllllllllllllllllll III |

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .
Time Collected Time Received
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Statue Final Relevant Information
Location
Copied To
Report Patient Name:
Demographics (for
veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Birth:

Sex: F

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT 0W 3WD 13 C
*****Surgical Pathology Report***** 3 - 2 t a {ii ["i I f— 4212—!
Accession Number {:2491:i': ,_ -
Collected Date/Time ' {:)Ai:>t3/§LIIILJ

Received Date/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description
A. Portal tissue at
B. Liver segment at

Clinical Information
Infectious patient:NO
Immunocompromised: No

Liver mass

 

Diagnosis
A. Portal Tissue, Excision:
- Benign fibroadipose tissue.

B. Liver, Segmental Resection:
— Moderately-oifferentiated cholangiocarcinoma (see Synoptic Report).
— Tumor < 0.1 cm from hepatic resection margin.

— Background liver parenchyma with prominent chronic portal
inflammation.

Reported by:

Electronically signed by:
Verified:

Synoptic Report

B: Intrahepatic Bile Ducts,Resection Macro
Specimen:

Liver

PROCEDURE:

Page 2 of 3

Wedge resection

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 7.3 cm

*Additional dimensions: 5.3 x 4.8 cm

TUMOR FOCALITY:

Multiple (specify location): 2 foci within segment

B: Intrahepatic Bile Ducts,Resection, Micro

HISTOLOGIC TYPE:

Cholangiocarcinoma

HISTOLOGIC GRADE:

GII: Moderately differentiated

TUMOR GROWTH PATTERN:

Mass—forming

MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:

Tumor confined to hepatic parenchyma

HEPATIC PARENCHYMAL MARGIN:

Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1 mm

BILE DUCT MARGIN:

Cannot be assessed

VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V):

Not identified

SMALL VESSAL INVASION (L):

Not identified

PERINEURAL INVASION:

Present

PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):

pT2b: Multiple tumors, with or without vascular invasion

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):

pNx: Cannot be assessed

Gross Description

Received are specimens A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled

with the patient's name, . The cassettes and identifiers are labelled
with the Surgical Number

A. Specimen is labelled "portal tissue ' .
A single eoft grey tan irregular portion of tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm. This
portion of tissue is bisected and submitted in toto in A1. Also submitted in the

container multiple soft yellow lobulated tissue fragments measuring in aggregate 1.4 x
0.9 x 0.3 cm and totally submitted in A2.

B. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin. The container
is designated "liver segment" and consists of a 218.4 g segmental hepatectomy specimen
measuring 11.8 x 8.4 x 5.4 cm. The capsular surface appears relatively smooth expect for
two focal indurated light tan appearing areas measuring 5.4 x 4.3 cm on the anterior
surface and on the posterior surface measuring 4.4 x 2.0 cm. The surgical resection
margin is dyed with black ink. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a well
circumscribed light tan lesion measuring 7.3 x 5.8 x 4.8 cm which grossly appears to
extends right to the black inked surgical resection margin and also corresponds with the
two indurated light tan capsular areas identified on both anterior and posterior
surfaces. There is also secondary nodule measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.9 cm which grossly is
0.3 cm away from the larger tumor, 2.8 cm from the black inked surgical resection margin
and grossly appears to come right to the capsular surface.

Summary sections:

51, 2 — representative sections of the larger lesion and grossly points of invasion
to black inked

resection margin

33 - representative section of gross capsular surface involvement of the larger
lesion on the

( Page 3 of3

anterior surface

84 - representative section of the larger lesion capsular surface involvement on
the posterior

surface
ES - representative section of the smaller lesion and the capsular surface
involvement

Pathologist Comment
Comparison is made to previous liver biopsy specimen

The portal chronic inflammation is likely secondary to mass effect/reactive changes
secondary to the tumor. Note is made of the negative autoantibody and viral hepatitis
serology Clinical correlation is required for a more definitive diagnosis.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

 

_-T_" 7"“" "1

