 

 

 

UUID: B87IBDE3- 634E- 4B7C- ACM- 219E2FDRB7153a
TCGA- KC- A7F3- BiA— PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII II III
IIII IIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I|||
IIIIII|||||I|I|||IIIIIII|IIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII

   
 

Surgical Pathology

l nqui ry:
Fax:

Sur gi cal Pat hol ogy Report

Specimen Cat e:
In Lab Date:
Report Date:

Patient:

:~ W
Encounter
Locat i on:
Agei Sex:

_ I
OJ N CAL i WW.“ (N: W
Prostate cancer. SJ WW N65 (la/Ff

INTRACPERATIVE HAMIS:
A-D. Frozen section diagnosis: Soft tissue only
Reported to:

GROSS oescm Prim

A. Received fresh the specimen is labeled “left m'd
neurovascui ar margin" and consists of a 0.4 x 0.2 with 0.1 cm
piece of pi nk~tan soft tissue. The specimen is entirely

submitted for intraoperative consultation. Sumry of sections:
A1 FSG

8. Received fresh the specimen is labeled ”right anterior apical
margin“ and consists of a 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm piece of piniotan
soft tissue. The specimen is entirely subm’tied for
intraoperalive frozen section. Sumry of sections: Bi FSC

C. Received fresh, specimen is labeled ”left posterior

para-api cal margin” and consists of a 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm piece of
pi nketan soft tissue. The specimen is entirely subm‘tted for

i ntraoper ati ve frozen section consultation. Summry of sections:
Ci FSC.

D. Received fresh, the specinen is labeled ”left hid posterior
lateral” and consists of a circular 3 x 0.1x 0.1 cm piece of

pi nil-tan soft tissue. The specimen is entirely subrritted for
intraoperati ve frozen section consultation. Summry of sections:
01 FSQ

E Received fresh, the specimen is label ed “prost ate gland and

sem‘ nal vesi oi es". and consists of a 72.4 gram radical
prostatectorry specimen including a 5 x 4.5 x 4 cm prostate, a 3 x

 

 
 
 

4p 9/2445

 

Page‘lof4

VM

1.5 x1cmleft sem‘nal vesi cl e, a to e 0.5 cmleft vas deferens.
a 2.5 x 1.5 x1cmright serrinal vesicle, and a 2 x 0.5 cmright
vas deferens. The right side of the specimen is inked green and g
the left side is inked black. The serri nal vesicle base, bladder ”
neck and apical margins are shaved and subm’tted. The prostate
is serially sectioned fromthe apex to base with sections
designated fromA to E respectively. Level B is subrritted for
research. 01 sectioning, mJlti pl 6 nodular and cystic areas are
seen. The prostate is subrritted in alternate sections. Sumrary
of sections:

E1-RSV and LSV, E2— anterior apex, E3-E4- posterior apex. ES-ARA
Pie-additional ARA (no ink), E7-ARP. EB-ALA EQ-ALP, ElO—CRA,
E11~CRP, E12-GLA, E13-CLP, El4—E15~ERP, E16-E17-ELP, E18—R
posterior base. E19-L posterior Base, EZD-anterior base, E21-
posterior base. E22- additional soft tissue fromthe left side.

F. Received fresh to the speci men is labeled "pelvic lyrrph
nodes". it consists of a 4 x 3 x 1 cm aggregate of fibrofatty
tissue Iyrrph nodes. The specimen is entirely subnitted. Summary
of sections: F1-F5.

G Received fresh specimen is labeled "anterior prostatic fat".
He consist of a 3.5 x 2 x 1 cm aggregate of fibrofatty tissue.
The specimen is entirely subm’tted. Sumtary of sections: G1.

DI AGNUSI S:

A. Prostate gland. left rri d neurovascul ar margl n (biopsy):
Adi pose and fi bronuscul ar tissue and nerve.
No pr cat at i c glands or carci norra identified.

5 B. Prostate gland, right inferior apical nargi n (biopsy):
Adi pose and fi bronuscul ar tissue and nerve.
No prost at i c glands or carci norra identified.

 

C. Prostate gland. left posterior apical margin (biopsy):
Fl bron'uscul ar tissue and nerve.
No pr ostat i c glands or carcinoma identified.

D. Prostate gland, left n'id posterior lateral (biopsy):
Fi br onuscul ar tissue.

No pr ostati c glands or carol none identified.

 

E. Prostate gland and card nal vesicles (radical or ostatectorry):

 

Dom' nant nodul e
i Prostati c adenocarci norra, G eason score 3+4=7,
bilateral, organ confined, located in the apex.

Secondary nodul e(s)
Prostati c adenocarci none. Geason score 3+3=6 w'th

tertiary G eason pattern 4, bilateral, organ confined, located in
the anterior para- api cal region.

Feel of prostatic adenocarcinon'e, Geason score 3+3=6,
unilateral, organ confined, located in the ri gt h
n1 d- gland

Serri nal vesicles and all surgical margins are negative
for tuner.

Please see attached Pathological Staging Sunrrary.

 

F. Lynph nodes. pelvic (excision):

— PageZoM

N net een lynph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma

(% (0/19).
3 G Fat, anterior prostate (exoi sion):
Mat ure fi broadi pose tissue, negative for carcinoma.

SYNCPTI C Di AMI S:

H st oi ogi c Type: Adenocarci none
(conventional . not at herwi se specified)
Primary Pattern: Gade 3
Secondary Pattern: Grade 4
Total Geason Score: 7

Turmr QJanti tati on: Proportion (percent) of
pr ost ati c tissue involved by turror: 5%
Pat hol ogi c St aging (pTNM: pT2c: Bilateral disease

pm: No regional lyrrph
node metastasis

Minter of regional lynph
nodes exam’ ned: 19

Nmber of regional lynph
nodes invol ved: 0

pM(: Di stant net astasi 3
cannot be assessed

Nargi ns: Margins uninvolved by
invasive carcinoma
Ext rapr ost ati c Extension: Absent
Sem' nal Vesi ci e lnvasi on: Absent
Peri neural Invasion: Present
_. Lyrrphat i c (Small Vessel) lnvasi on (L): Absent
6% Additional Pat hol ogi c Fi ndi ngs: H gh- grade pr ost at i c

int raepi thel i al neopl asi 3 (Pl N)
Benign pr ost at i c
hyper pl asi a

** Electronically Signed on “

At t endi ng Pat hol ogi st
The attending pathologist whose signature appears on this
report has reviewed the diagnostic slides. and has edited
the gross and m‘ croscopic portions of the report in rendering the
final diagnosis.

 

iCDQ Codes: A-G 185

Billing Codes: A—D, ,, ‘ (inpatient)
A— D. G
E;
F;

SNCNED

Slides: A—2, 5—2, 02, 0-2, E—22, F—5, G1
Resulting Agency

 

 

I Specimen Collected: i Last Resultpd:
eg-

Order lnformation Lab Collection information, Order Information, Order Providers

Page30f4

Criteria ’ J? ‘5 Vol No

Prior

is
Reviewer Initials

 

Page4of4

