 

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis

A. Lymph node, level VII, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy.

B. Lymph node, 4, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for
malignancy.

C. Lung, right upper lobe, resection: Poorly differentiated
adenocarcinoma

D. Lymph node, level X, biopsy: Benign lung tissue

Microscopic Description:
C.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: 3

Mitotic index: 6 mitoses/lO HPFs (l HPF = 0.196 sq mm)

Tumor size: 5 x 3.5 x 3.2 cm

Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy

Pleura: Negative for malignancy (Elastic stain done)

Vascular invasion: Absent

Attached lymph nodes: A single lymph node is negative for malignancy
pTNM stage: T2a

Non-tumorous lung: Unremarkable

Antibody...Results...Comment

 

TTF—l... Positive
CK5/6 ... Negative
.p63 ... Negative

 

Paraffin sections; 10% neutral buffered formalin

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents.
These antibodies are monitored and controlled in our laboratory and
their performance for
in vitro diagnosis is well described in the medical literature.
They have not been cleared
or approved by the FDA.]

Specimen

A. Level VII lymph node
B. Lymph node R4

C. Right upper lobe

D. Level 10 lymph node

Clinical Information
Lung mass

Intraoperative Consultation
A) ode, level 7, biopsy: Negative for carcinoma. -

B)-ode, R4, biopsy: Negative for carcinoma. —

Gross Description

Specimen A. is received unfixed labeled lymph node level VII and
consists of a piece of tan and black soft tissue measuring 1.7 x 1 x
0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted although for frozen section diagnosis
as requested.

Specimen B. is received unfixed labeled lymph node R4 and consists of
pieces of tan-yellow soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm in
aggregate. The entire specimen is submitted for frozen section
diagnosis as requested.

Specimen C. is received unfixed labeled right upper lobe and consists
of a 305 g lung lobe measuring 17 by 11 by 5 cm the specimen has been
incised prior to my examination to 8 tumor that appears to be near the
apex of the specimen. The specimen cannot be inflated. On cut section
the tumor that is present measures 3.5 by 3.2 by (1.5+2 +1.5)
centimeters. The remainder of the lung tissue is grossly unremarkable.
Sections after fixation.

Block summary; 1,2 bronchial and vascular margins; 3-7 tumor; 8.9
non-neoplastic lung

Specimen D. is received in formalin labeled level X lymph node
consists of a 1.5 x 1 x 0.5 cm piece of red black soft tissue.

