  

CGA—BB-5163

Surgical Pathologyr Report

Diagnosis:
Right kidney, radical nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: renal cell carcinoma, clear cell subtype; see comment.
Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhlman grade 3 of 4
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 5.5 cm

Extent of tumor invasion:

Capsular invasion/perirenal adipose tissue: tumor focally invades capsule; perirenal adipose tissue is negative for
carcinoma

Gercta' s fascia: negative for carcinoma

Renal vein: positive for carcinoma

Ureter: negative for carcinoma

Venous (large vessel): positive for carcinoma

Lymphatic (small vessel): positive for carcinoma

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:
Perirenal adipose tissue: negative for carcinoma
Gerota' s fascia: negative for carcinoma

Renal vein: positive for carcinoma

Renal artery: negative for carcinoma

Ureter: negative for carcinoma

Adrenal giand: not present
Lymph nodes: none identiﬁed

Other significant ﬁndings: Mild glomerulosclerosis and interstitial ﬁbrosis.

AJCC Staging:
pTBa
pNx

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:
Immunohistochemical stains are performed and demonstrate the tumor is negative for Hales colloidal iron, CK7,

CD117, and RCC while being positive for vimentin and with equivocal staining for E-cadherin. The histologic and
immunohistochemicai ﬁndings are most consistent with renal cell carcinoma, clear cell subtype.

Clinical History:
with a clinical diagnosis of a renal tumor. As, the patient has a large right upper pole renal mass that extends to the

left renal vein and into the inferior vena cava.

 

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled cuntainer.

Specimen ﬁxation: formalin
Type of specimen: radical
Side of specimen: right

Size and weight of specimen: The weight is 930 grams; the specimen measures 26.5 x 16.0 x 9.5 cm overall; the
kidney measures 9.2 x 6.0 x 5.0 cm.

Orientation: The perirenal adipose tissue has been previously inked blue.
Presence/absence of adrenal gland: absent

Tumor description/site: Anatomic site: renal cortex; upper pole; The pole varies from yellow to red to dark brown
with focal cysts and necrosis evident. The tumor is encapsulated and extends to the hilar areas and through the renal

vein.
Tumor size: 5.5 x 4.7 x 4.0 cm
Presencer’absence of multicentricity: absent

Confinement/non-conﬁnement to the kidney: The tumor is predominantly conﬁned to the cortex of the kidney and
is seen extending into and through and the lumen of the renal vein.

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: tumor does not grossly involve
Gerota’ s fascia: tumor does not grossly involve

Renal vein: positive for gross tumor

Ureter: does not grossly involve

Other organs: n/a

Surgical margins:
Perirenal adipose tissue: negative, 0.5 cm at closest approach
Renal vein: positive, A portion ofpolypoid tumor grossly extends through the lumen and measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0

cm.
Renal artery: negative, 03 cm at closest approach
Ureter: negative, 1.5 cm at closest approach

Description of kidney away ﬁ'om tumor: The remainder of the kidney appears red to tan in color with no other
lesions or masses identiﬁed; The average cortical measurement is 0.8 cm and the average medullary measurement

is 1.2 cm.
Lymph nodes (hilar): none identiﬁed
Other significant findings: none
. Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes
Digital photograph taken: no 7

Block summary:
(Inking: blueeperirenal fat)

 

Al - ureter and artery margin

A2 - tumor and perirenal fat, closest approach

A3-A7 ~ tumor with capsule

A8 - central tumor

A9- tumor with overlying perirenal fat, additional section

AlO- All perpendicular section through tumor extension into renal vein (at hilum)
A12- lrilum, en face

A13 hilum, perpendicular sections

A14 - normal kidney and urothelium

A15 — ureter, additional

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed.

Appropriate intenral and/or external positive and negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the
immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte speciﬁc reagents (ASR). These were
developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

.These reagents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval rs not necessary. These tests are
used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is
certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of -CLIA~88) as qualiﬁed to perform high
complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

 

