 

 

UUID: srac37ss 31Fa- 4556- EEBF- -21E7F4E6499Dd
TCGA- BK- A139- -o1A- PR Q 580]; A!“

IIllllIIHHHIIHIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂHIIIIRIHd l . . - WW
”II" Illlllllllllllll “I mad 57""“W C5“

,va0"5
aiL¢4cwadumuL {wAtwuierﬁl.Nd;

 

SPECIMEN

A. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries
Cervical margin

Right pelvic peritoneal biopsy

Right pelvic lymph nodes

Periaortic lymph nodes

Left pelvic peritoneal biopsy

Left pelvic lymph nodes

Omentum

EO'TJL'UUOUJ

CLINICAL NOTES

PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Uterine carcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Part A received fresh, labeled "uterus, cervix,

bilateral tubes and ovaries", is a 100 gram, 5.5 X 5.5 x
4.0 cm. symmetrical uterine corpus with attached 1.4 cm. of lower
uterine segment and bilateral adnexa. The cervical tissue is not
present. The 5.0 x 3.9 cm. uterine cavity contains abundant soft
tan white—red tumor, both anteriorly and posteriorly. A scant
amount of uninvolved endometrium is present posteriorly, which
appears smooth tan pink and averages 0.15 cm. in thickness.
Anteriorly, the tumor spans an area of 5.4 X 4.2 cm. and
posteriorly, the tumor spans an area of 4.2 x 3.8 cm. On
sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.8 cm., grossly
involving up to 50% of the myometrium. The myometrium is tan pink
and measures up to 1.8 cm. in thickness, with a single, posterior
1.4 cm. well circumscribed rubbery whorled tan white intramural
leiomyoma. The right ovary is cystic and focally disrupted,
measuring 6.0 x 4.0 x 0.3 cm. The cyst is vacant with a smooth tan
white inner lining. The left ovary is cerebriform, pale tan gold
and measures 1.6 x 1.1 x 0.9 cm. On sectioning, the stroma is pale
tan with identifiable corpora albicantia. Bilaterally, the
fimbriated tan pink right and left fallopian tube segments average

GROSS DESCRIPTION

CHI.

5.5 cm. in length and 0.3 cm. in diameter with pinpoint stellate
lumen on sectioning. Representative sections are submitted in
thirteen blocks as labeled. RS—l3.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Anterior and posterior lower uterine
segments(distal anterior inked blue; distal posterior inked black);
2-5 - representative anterior endomyometrium including tumor full
thickness sequentially from fundus to LUS; 6—9 — representative
posterior endomyometrium sequentially from fundus to LUS; 10-12 -
right tube and ovary; 13 — left tube and ovary.

B. Part B received fresh, labeled "cervical margin" is an
amputated 2.4 cm. cervix. The diffusely torn 2.4 x 2.2

white pink ectocervix surrounds a 0.4 x 0.2 cm. ovoid os. The

o

paracervical margin is inked blue and the cervical mucosa is
glistening and mildly trabecular tan pink—red. Representative
sections are submitted in two blocks as labeled. RS—2.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Anterior cervix; 2 — posterior cervix.
C. Part C received fresh, labeled "right pelvic peritoneal
biopsy" is a focally cauterized, 2.1 x 1.1 x 0.3 cm.
portion of soft tan gold—pink fatty tissue. The specimen is
sectioned and entirely submitted in one block. AS-l.
D. Part D received fresh, labeled "right pelvic lymph
node", is a 4.8 x 4.5 x 2.7 cm. aggregate of soft,
lobulated golden yellow adipose tissue. Several soft to slightly
rubbery tan pink—gold tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring
up to 1.8 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered. The lymphoid
tissues are entirely submitted in six blocks. RS-6.
BLOCK SUMMARY: 1,2 - Four whole lymph nodes per cassette; 3—6 — one
bisected lymph node per cassette.

B. Part E received fresh, labeled "periaortic lymph node"

GROSS DESCRIPI ION
is a 4.8 x 4.4 x 1.8 cm. aggregate of soft, lobulated
golden yellow adipose tissue. Several soft tan pink—gold tissues,
in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 3 cm. in greatest
dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in four blocks as labeled. RS—4.

 

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1,2 — Four whole lymph nodes per cassette; 3,4 -
bisected largest lymph nodes (one-half per cassette).

F. Part F received fresh, labeled "left pelvic peritoneal

biopsy" is a focally cauterized, 3.4 x 2.4 x 0.3 cm. soft
tan gold—pink fatty portion of tissue which is sectioned and
entirely submitted in one block. AS—l.

G. Part G received fresh, labeled "left pelvic lymph node"

is a 5.5 x 4.5 x 2.0 cm. aggregate of soft, lobulated
golden yellow adipose tissue. Several soft tan gold tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.9 cm. in greatest
dimension are recovered. The lymphoid tissues are entirely
submitted in five blocks as labeled. RS—S.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1,2 - Four whole lymph nodes per cassette; 3-5 — one
bisected lymph node per cassette.

H. Part H received fresh, labeled "omentum" is a 15.0 x

13.0 x 2.5 cm. portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose
tissue in keeping with omentum. No discrete mass lesion or
abnormality is identified on sectioning. Random representative EEE’
sections are submitted in eight blocks. RS—B. V

(‘fx
{Lu 91'5“

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION \ _
Histologic type:{ Endometroid adenocarcinoma with a minor cpmppnent
of serous adenocarcinoma. ' S—IW‘“*”‘" 7
Histologic grade: The endometroid adenocarcinoma is grauﬂ 3.
Myometrial invasion:
0.9 cm. depth of invasion
1.7 cm. depth of myometrial thickness
>50% of myometrial wall
Cervix: Negative for tumor
Primary tumor (pT) TNM (FIGO): ple
Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.

Vascular invasion: Present.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO.
Distant metastasis (pM): pMO

5x1, 3x4, 4x3

DIAGNOSIS
A. Uterus, cervix, fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy with
bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy — Grade 3 endometroid
adenocarcinoma
with a minor component of serous carcinoma (see tumor
characteristics in the hysterectomy template).
B. Uterus, cervix, excision — Negative for tumor.
C. Right pelvic peritoneal biopsy — Acute and chronic inflammation
reactive changes, negative for tumor.
D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision - Fourteen lymph nodes
negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/14).
E. Lymph nodes, periaortic, excision - Nine lymph nodes negative
for metastatic carcinoma (0/9 endometrium).
F. Soft tissue, left pelvic peritoneum, biopsy — Acute and chronic
inflammation with reactive changes.
G. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision - Ten lymph nodes negative
for metastatic carcinoma (0/10).

 

DIAGNOSIS

H. Omentum, partial excision — Acute and chronic inflammation with
reactive changes; negative for tumor.

.D. (Electronic Signature)

--- End Of Report --—

   

