 

mun:

umor

 

F Surgical Pathology

PROCEDURE DATE: RECEIVED DATE: REPORT DATE:
l

UUPY TO:
Pre—Op Diagnosis
Endometrial cancer
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Six parts
Container one is labeled "— — left pelvic lymph nodes."
Received in formalin is an 8.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm aggregate of multiple
irregular pieces of fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals numerous lymph
nodes up to 4.8 cm in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are
submitted as follows: 1A ~ two intact lymph nodes; 18 ~ one bisected
lymph node; 1C—1D — each with one sectioned lymph node in totoi
lE-IH - one sectioned lymph node in toto.
Container two is labeled "_- left aortic lymph nodes."
Received in formalin is a 6.0 x 2.8 x 1.6 cm aggregate of two
irregular pieces of fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals numerous lymph
nodes up to 1.8 cm in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are
submitted as follows: 2A - one intact lymph node; 23 - one trisected
lymph node; 2C — one quadrisected lymph node; 20 - one trisected
lymph node; 23 - one sectioned lymph node in toto.
Container three is labeled ‘_- right pelvic lymph nodes."
Received in formalin is a 5.5 x 3.2 x 1.8 cm aggregate of multiple
pieces of fatty tissue. Sectioning reveals few possible lymph nodes
up to 3.5 cm in greatest dimensions. All lymph nodes are submitted
as follows: 3A—BB — each with one sectioned lymph node in toto;
3C-3D ~ each with one bisected lymph node; BE - one sectioned lymph
node in toto; 3F-3G - one sectioned lymph node in toto.
Container four is labeled "—- right aortic lymph nodes."
Received in formalin is a 6.5 x 2.4 x 1.1 cm mass of fatty tissue.
Sectioning reveals numerous lymph nodes up to 2.8 cm in greatest
dimensions. All lymph nodes are submitted as follows: 4A - one
trisected lymph node; 4B - five intact lymph nodes; 4C—4D — one
sectioned lymph node in toto; 4E—4E‘ - one sectioned lymph node in

- mum-75773
/ C A , a , 3 uummacsgm-mm-Aaa1 mu Redacted

T A“'A3ELl'liiiiﬁﬁmmmunmm
“WW“ (”WWW/f ””5 g ””3- iiiWilliiiii‘i‘ii‘iiuum\uummmmmmIn

* ' ' . r “I“HHIIIIIIHIIIIIII
5’75? immv " 5"" y“, ”[13,,” llHlllllIllllHN“\IIHMHIIM

 

 

Page 2 of 3

toto. ,
Container five is labeled " - uterus, cervix, right ovary."
Received in formalin is a 107.9 gram, 7.0 x 5.5 x 5.0 cm uterus with
attached cervix and attached 19.1 gram right adnexal tissue. The
serosa is smooth and tan-brown at the anterior aspect, becoming
markedly shaggy, possibly cauterized at the posterior aspect. The
ectocervix is surfaced by smooth pink-tan mucosa. The endocervical
canal is tan and corrugated. The endometrial cavity is 3.0 cm in
width and 4.5 cm in length and is lined by endometrium which is 0.2
to 0.3 cm thick, tan—brown, giving rise to a 3.0 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm
exophytic friable tumor involving the low uterine segment as well as
the anterior and posterior aspects. On section, tumor extends 0.2 cm
into the myometrium where the myometrium is 1.8 cm thick. The
remaining myometrium is homogeneous and pink~tan with few up to 0.7
cm in greatest dimensions well circumscribed tan-white whorled
fibrous nodules. At the right adnexal region there is an attached
6.8 x 4.2 x 2.2 cm mass of shaggy gray—tan to markedly violaceous
tissue. Sectioning reveals a discrete amount of residual cystic
hemorrhagic ovarian strcma. Representative sections are submitted
for genomics studies in three cassettes labeled
Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted as
follows: 5A - anterior cervix; SB - posterior cervix; 50—5D —
anterior low uterine segment to include tumor; 5E-5F — posterior low
uterine segment; SG—SH ~ anterior endomyometrium with tumor, one
full thickness section bisected; SI-SJ - anterior endomyometrium
with tumor, one full thickness section bisected; 5K - anterior
endomyometrium; 5L-5N — posterior endomyometrium; 50-5? — sectioned
entire right parametriumSQ-SR - sectioned entire left parametrium;
53-50 — residual ovarian stroma.
Container six is labeled "— - cyst wall." Received in
formalin is a 5.0 x 4.2 x 1.2 cm aggregate of multiple irregular
pieces of membranous to hemorrhagic gray—tan to yellow—orange
tissue. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 6A—6C.
IIIIIIIIII
Microscopic Description:
Slides reviewed.
Final Diagnosis
Left pelvic lymph node dissection:
Nine benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/9).
Left aortic lymph node dissection:
Five benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/5).
Right pelvic lymph node dissection:
Six benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/6).
Right aortic lymph node dissection:
Eight benign hyperplastic regional lymph nodes (0/8).
Hysterectomy:
Carcinoma of endometrium.
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Endometrioid.
Grade: Poorly differentiated (G3).
Site: Uterine cavity especially lower uterine segment.
Size: 3.0 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm.
Myometrial invasion: Present, 0.3 cm thickness invasion into a
1.8 cm thick myometrium.
Involvement of cervix: Not identified.
Extent of involvement of other organs: None identified.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified.
Surgical margin status: Margins uninvolved.

 

 

. y ‘ Page3of3

Lymph node status:

Number of lymph nodes received (utilizing all specimens): 28
Number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0
(0/28)

other significant findings:
Adenomyosis, endometriosis involving serosa and right ovary.
Stage: pTla,N0
Cyst wall:
Corpus luteal cyst. PAS 9
CPT:
Comments
This test has been finalized at the _
<Sign Out Dr. Signature>
IIIIIIIIIIIIr ‘

 

