ZFSIBBZB- F69C8- 423A- 8399- -ZDAFD2F6314B
UUID: Bc ILA-PR Reacd ted

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII||II||Ic|I
II”III““III“IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

II
II
III

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Patient Namw Accession #:
Med. Rec. #: Visit #: -

Service Dat
DOB: Male Received:

5°C Sec. # ——‘ Location: - Client:

 

   
 

Physician(s):

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left Kidney, laparoscopic nephrectomy:

1 Papillary renal cell carcinoma, type 1, Fuhrrnan grade 2,10cm in greatest
dimension, margins free of tumor; see comment.

2. Ureter with no tumor identiﬁed.

3. Adrenal gland with no tumor identiﬁed.

B. Perirenal fat, laparoscopic nephrectomy: Adipose tissue, no tumor identiﬁed.

COMMENT:

This papillary renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 2, predominantly type 1, shows large areas of necrosis
(—40% of the tumor mass). Histologically the tumor is comprised of papillae with ﬁbrovascular cores ﬁlled
with abundant foamy histiocytes {strongly CD68 positive). The papillae are lined by a single layer of low
cuboidal to columnar cells with relatively abundant cytoplasm and moderately enlarged nuclei with easily
discemable nucleoli, consistent with Fuhrman grade 2. Strikingly, the tumor cells and foamy histiocytes
show extensive granular cytoplasmic pigment, consistent with hemosiderin. There is a minor component of
solid/tubular architecture that is comprised of larger cells with granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and large
nuclei with prominent nucleoli. Given the marked hemosiderin pigment immunohistochemical stains for
cytokeratin and CD68 were necessarily performed to conﬁrm the diagnosis. The cytokeratin strongly
stained the malignant cells while the CD68 highlighted the foamy histiocytes.

   

7 {7;} «.4123 » 3
Kidney Tumor Synoptic Comment .
-Hhtologie type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma [chromophil], type l. W\‘ ”Vlad,
.Gndo: Fuhrman grade 2. W UM S’QéDC/Ié

Jiudnnnn tumor diameter: 10 cm.

~8ltc within kidney: Posterior mid kidney. 54b: @ %W@ [L10

diam! pelvis: Normal.

«Inter: Normal.

diam! sinus: Normal, no tumor. C)?! Q é, IiOI i LI
Jill” renal veins; Normal, no tumor.

Jamaal veins and lymphatics: Normal, no tumor.

” Page 1 of 2

Gang

 

—'— __
-Adrens1 gland: Normal.
Capsule] perinatal fat: Tumor does not penetrate capsule.
Jlilsr lymph nodes (number positive] number of nodes): 0/ 0.
dissection margins: Negative.
masculinity to nearest margin: 0.3 cm.
-8tsge: pT2NOMX.
Additional comments: See above. is reviewed the case and concurs with the diagnosis.

 

Specimen“) Received
A:Left kidney
B:Peri-renal fat

Clinical Histo

The patient is meat-old male with left kidney cancer, who undergoes left laparoscopic radical
nephrectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in formalin in two parts, each labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record
number.

Part A is not additionally labeled. it consists of a morcellated, single kidney and associated perinephric fat
weighing 1280 gm. The kidney itself measures 15.0 x 12.0 x 8.0 cm. The external surface of the
perinephric fat, as well as exposed renal surface, is inked with black ink, and the specimen is bisected,
revealing a single, oval tumor measuring 10.0 x 6.0 cm. The interior of the tumor is composed of grumous
red-brown and yellow-orange material. The tumor appears to be entirely encapsulated within the
substance of the kidney. The tumor is located primarily posteriorly within the kidney, and distorts, but does
not involve the renal pelvis or vascular pedicle. Additionally identiﬁed is a single adrenal gland measuring
5.0 x 2.0 x 0.3 cm. The superior pole of the kidney appears to be avulsed, exposing the renal pelvis. The
area of avulsion does not grossly involve tumor. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassette A1: Vascular and ureteral margins.

Cassette A2: Area of avulsion, closest approach to tumor.
Cassettes A3-A4: Tumor, relation to renal pelvis.

Cassette A5: Tumor, relation to capsule.

Cassette A6: Uninvolved kidney.

Cassette A7: Adrenal gland.

Cassette A8: Candidate lymph nodes.

Part B is additionally labeled "peri-renal fat L." it consists of multiple fragments of fat, measuring 12.0 x

5.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. Excess fat is removed, and tan-red areas from within the fat are submitted in
cassettes Bl through 83.

The immunoperoxidase stain(sl reported above were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the . They have not been cleared or approved
by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is
not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational
or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical laboratory Improvement Amendments of
1988 ("CLIA") as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist
following review of all pathology slides.

L- ’Pathology Resident I _ 'Pathologist

Electronically signed out on

1619

 

 

