 

 

 

‘Pagelofli

UUID: BEA4C577- 73ED- ABFG- 9417- AABBD14335C8c
TCGA- 3X-AAVB-91A- PR

III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II I||II|II||I|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIII I|I| ICIIEd
HHIIIIIII IIIII |||||| | |||||||||||I||||| I|||||||I|||I||||| ||||

 

CONFIDENTIAL

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Time Collected ’ ﬁm" e' 'R'eoeived

Time Reported Time Transmitted

Order Number Ordering Provider

Statue Final Relevant Information
. Location

Copied To

Repon Patient Name: '

Demographics (for

veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Birth: ‘

Sex: F

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surgical Pathology Report*****

Accession Number
Collected Date/Time
Received Date/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description

Lymph node #5 at
Gallbladder at

Portal lymph node at
Pancreatic duct margin at
Whipple specimen at

FF???

Clinical Information
Pancreatic cancer.
Infectious patient:No
Immunocompromieed: Yes
History of neoplasm: Yes

@604”

WWW

.1231)ch
W impala

WWW N05 3’40/3
8d:— 93% WWW (1:24 o

q/A) Ola/IN

 

Diagnosis
A. Lymph Node # B:

- One reactive lymph node, negative for malignancy.

3. Gallbladder:

- Unremarkable gallbladder.
- Negative for malignancy or dysplasia.

C. Portal Lymph Node:

— One reactive lymph node, negative for malignancy.

D. Pancreatic Duct Margin:

- Negative for malignancy.

E. Pancreas and Duodenum. Partial Pancreaticoduodenectomy:
- Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinoue

features in the periampullary region. most consistent With biliary
(common bile duct) origin.

- Tumor invaded into pancreas and periampullary duodenal wall

(muscle layer only).

- Tumor invaded into peripancreatic fat.

- Positive for perineural invasion.

- Positive for lymphatic channel invasion.

'- PanIN 2 and 3;

- Resection margins free Of tumor: 0.2 cm from vascular bed margin,
0.4 cm from the outer surface of the peripancreatic fat, 0.2 cm from

uncinate margin, and 0.7 cm from pancreatic distal transaction
margin.

- One incidental pancreatic well differentiated neuroendocrine tumor
(0.15 cm) in the midst of infiltrating adenocarcinoma.

— 5 of 15 peripancreatic /biliary lymph nodes positive for metastatic
carcinoma.

- See Synoptic report and Comment.
Reported by:

Electronically signed by:
Verified:

Synoptic Report

E: Extrahepatic Bile Ducts, Macroscopic
SPECIMEN:

Common bile duct

OTHER ORGANS RECEIVED:
Duodenum

Pancreas

Ampulla

Gallbladder

PROCEDURE:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy
TUMOR SITE:

Common bile duct
thrapancreatic
Intrapancreatic

TUMOR SIZE:

Greatest dimension: 2.5 cm

E: Extrahepetic Bile Ducts. Microscopic

HISTOLOGIC TYPE:

Adenocarcinoma (not Otherwise characterized)

HISTOLDGIC GRADE:

G2: Moderately differentiated

MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:

Tumor invades beyond the wall of the bile duct

Tumor invades the duodenum

Tumor invades the pancreas

MARGINS: SEGMENTAL RESECTION SPECIMEN

MARGINS: PANCREATICODUODENAL RESECTION SPECIMEN:

' Uninvolved by invasive‘carcinoma

Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma‘
Margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.2 cm
Specified margin: Uncinate

LYMPHATIC (SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (L):

Present

PERINEURAL INVASION:

Present

PRIMARY TUMOR (FT):

, Page 3 of4

pT3: Tumor invades the gallbladder, pancreas, duodenum, or other adjacent organs without
involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery

REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):

le: Regional lymph node metastasis

DISTANT METASTASIS (pM):

Not applicable

Gross Description

Received are specimen containers A to E. All requisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the patient‘s name, The cassettes and identifiers are
labelled with the Surgical Number

A The specimen is received in formalin and designated as "lymph node #8". The specimen
consists of one piece of fibroadipose tissue measuring 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm. One lymph

node is retrieved, 1.1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely in
one cassette.

B. The'specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin, designated
as "gallbladder“. The specimen consists of an intact cholecystectomy specimen. The
gallbladder measures 9.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm. The serosal surface is smooth. The cystic duct
is patent. No gallstones are identified. The cystic mucosa is smooth and velvety with
no obvious lesions identified. Representative sections are submitted in one cassette.

C. The specimen is received fresh and designated as "portal lymph node". The specimen

consists of one piece of lymph node measuring 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The lymph
node is bisected and submitted in two cassettes.

D. The specimen consists of a piece of pancreatic tissue which measures 1.2 x 0.7 cm.
All tissue submitted for OS in one block.

E. The specimen is designated as "Whipple specimen". The specimen consists of a partial
pancreaticoduodenal resection specimen including a segment of duodenum 22.0 cm in length
and 5.4 cm in maximum circumference, and portion of pancreatic head attached. The
portion of pancreas measures 3.5 x 3.5 x 3.3 cm. A portion of common bile duct is
identified, 2.8 cm in length and 1.5 cm in the circumference at the proximal resection
margin. The distal portion of the common bile duct appears to be compressed by the
surrounding structure. The ampullary region is prominent. The rest of the duodenal
mucosa appears unremarkable. The resection margin of pancreas is inked blue, the
vascular bed inked green, and margin of uncinate inked in orange. Serial cross sections
through the pancreas reveal an ill-defined firm mass lesion, 2.5 cm in greatest
dimensiOn. 0n cut surface, the pancreatic mass appears homogenous and whitish with no
necrosis, hemorrhage or cystic changes. The tissue around the common bile duct appears
to be fibrotic and involved by tumor. Grossly, the tumor is 0.7 cm from the closest

resection margin of pancreas, approximately 0.1 cm from the vascular bed margin, and 0.2
cm from the uncinate margin.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labelled as follows:

El. proximal margin of duodenum

E2. distal margin of duodenum

EB. shaved proximal margin of common bile duct

34. cross section of common bile duct next to shaved margin with vascular bed
margin

Es-G. single cross section next to E4 with Es including uncinate margin

E7. peripancreatic fat and lymph node next to E6

EB. cross section through common bile duct and surrounding tissue, next to E5 and
E6

E9. cross section through distal common bile duct and surrounding tissue. next to
E3

310—11. single cross section, including uncinate margin. vascular bed margin and

( Page 4 of 4

pancreatic
resection margin
E12—13. single cross section through the pancreatic mass and ampulla
E14-16. single cross section through the pancreatic tumor and ampullary region
317. cross section through ampullary region and underlying mass
E18. tumor with uncinate margin
319. resection margin of pancreas
E20. . tumor with uncinate margin
321. pancreatic resection margin
E22-23. tumor with resection margin
824. peripancreatic fat with nodule under serosal surface
E25. peripancreatic lymph nodes

Frozen Section Diagnosis
D. Pancreatic Duct Margin:
- Negative for malignancy.

Reported byxi

Pathologist Comment

The carcinoma is mostly invaded around the common bile duct and involves the bile ductal
mucosa. Based on the microscopic findings, this tumor is considered biliary primary,
although panIN is present.

The incidental neuroendocrine tumor is confirmed by its strong immunopositivity for
synaptophysin and chromogranin, while the surrounding adenocarcinoma is negative.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

 

Initials

