ﬂ... . Page 1 of3

Pathology Examination

Name Birthdate Age Sex :athology

- Male .-
Report to:
Gross Description by:

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED: PROSTATE BX'S.

Procedure date Tissue received Report Date Diagnosed by

Previous biopsies: PROSTATE BX'S. 066/5 1400 *3 -
Diagnosis: WW 3/445
1) Lymph nodes, right obturator, dissection (A-C): “023 441/3

No tumor seen in ten lymph nodes (0110).

. ‘ mos aél. 9
2) Lymph nodes. left obturator. dissection (D-E): 5.111— W

No tumor seen in ﬁve lymph nodes (0/5).

3) Prostate gland and seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy (H—BA):
A. Prostatic adenocarcinoma, see synopsis report and note.
B. High grade prostatrc Intraepithellal neoplasra. um ““3611_DCFF_427E_39A9_ mmmm
C. Unremarkable seminal vesrcles. TCGA- tau-- --A61N o1A- pa

ll”
4) Soft tissue, left perivesicular, excision (F-G): IIII
Benign fibrovascular and adipose tissue and nerve. IIH

Note: The Gleason. score is T(3+4) with a component of Gleason pattern 5 present in several foci.
No definitive extra-prostatic extension is seen. The resections margins are free of tumor.

Prostatic Carcinoma Synopsis

Type of specimen: Prostate and seminal vesicles.
Procedure: Radicai prostatectomy.
Tumor type: Adenocarcinoma.

Tumor histologic grade (Gleason's)
See note

Tumor amount (radical prostatectomies)
Positive slides Total
Right 5 1 1

”m Page 2 of3

Right Apex 0 1
Left 4 1 1
Left apex 0 1

involves single slide measurement: No.
Vascularllymphatic invasion: Absent.
Perineural extension: Present, within prostate.

Surgical margins
inked capsular/soft tissue resection margins: Free.
Inked bladder margin: Free.
inked apex margin: Free.

Seminal vesicles.
Not involved: by tumor

Clinical: Adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
Gross: The specimen is received fresh in four containers each labeled. with the patient's name,

Part 1 is additionally labeled right obturator lymph node and consists of'a 3.6 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm mass
of pink to yellow soft tissue. It is entirely submitted. in cassettes A-C. Note cassette A contains two
bisected lymph nodes.

Part 2 is additionally labeled left obturator lymph node and consists of a 4.7 x 3.6x 2.5 cm mass of
yellow to pink soft tissue that is represented as follows: D = 3 bisected lymph nodes, E = one
bisected lymph node and one whole lymph node.

Part. 3 is additionally labeled "prostate, long chromic suture on right seminal vesicle" and. consists of
a 56 gm specimen. The prostate measures 5.2 x 4.4 x 4.0 cm, the left seminal vesicle measures
4.5 x 1.5 x 1.7 cm, and the right. seminal vesicle measures 3.5 x 1.4 x 0.9 cm. The left vas
deferens measures 2.5 cm in length 0.5 cm in diameter. The right vas deferens measures 3.5 cm
in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The specimen is inked as follows: left = blue, right = black and is
serially sectioned apex to base to reveal tan nodular cut surfaces with areas of yellow tissue. The
specimen is represented as follows: H—i = apex shaved margin, J. = left apex, K = right apex, L = left
middle. M = right middle, N-O = left base, P—Z = most basal slice, including base margin (ink is true
margin), AA = left seminal vesicle and vas deferens margin, BA = right seminal vesicle and vas
deferens margin.

Part 4 is additionally labeled periveslcal tissue left and consists of a 1.9 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm mass of tan
soft tissue. The margin is inked black. The specimen is sectioned and entirely submitted in
cassettes F—G

By hither signature above, the senior physician certiﬁes that helshe personally conducted a gross and/or microscopic examination of the described
specimensts) and rendered or conﬁrmed the diagnoslshs) related thereto.

v

'I , Page3of3

lmmunohistochemistry test(s), it applicable, were developed and their performance characteristics'were. determined by

.. They have not been cleared or approved by the 0.3. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined
that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical pumoses. They should not be regarded as lnvastigational or for research.
This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA - 83) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical
laboratory testing.

  
 
  

  
   

' l . 3
Discrepancy

Primal 'i‘ui'ror Site Di lacy
lliPAA mung-ﬂ

Frkl Mall III History

 
   

