UUID: 25ED4E79- E39F- 43A7- BZC1- QIBSBCBRF2e2A1a
TCGA- 2L- AAQ I- 91A- PR

||| ||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIclI(ad
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

IIIIIIIlIIllIIIIlIIIlIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIlIIIIIIIIIII

Age: male
Surgery date:

Macroscopic evaluation
1. Liver biopsy (segment 2/3): unfixed, a spindle-like specimen from the liver, max. 1.2x0.6x0.5 cm.
Obviously intact fine capsule. At margins the liver parenchyma homogenous brownish. Complete for
instantaneous section after cutting into two halves. lnk mark: black = resection margin deep and
lateral parenchymatous.
2. Arteria mesenterica superior: unﬁxed, 4 irregular yellowish tissue Iamellae, max. 1.6 cm, therein
several small knots up to max. 0.6 cm. The small knots used for instantaneous section.
3. Lymph node pancreas upper rim: unfixed, two irregular fatty tissue Iamellae, max. 3.2 cm, therein
an encapsulated lymph node of max. 1.2 cm. The lymph node is cut into two halves and sent to
instantaneous section.
4. Edge of the pancreas: unfixed, a max. 2.5 cm in diameter and max. 0.4 cm thick lamellae of
pancreas parenchyma with central D. pancreaticus of max. 0.5 cm. Complete for instantaneous
section.
5. Tissue at Arteria mesenterica superior: unﬁxed, two irregular, max. 3. 8 cm in diameter tissue
Iamellae, partially indurated in max. 1.2 cm areas. Representative portions from the indurated areas
are used for instantaneous section. Remaining tissue for paraffin embedding.
6. Lymph node Lig. Hepatoduodenale: fixed, 10 g fragmented, lipomatous tissue with definable knot-
like structures, max. 1 cm.
7. Gall bladder: fixed, a well filled 10x5x5 cm large gall bladder with mirroring serosa. D. cysticus
resected after 1.5 cm. The mucosa is green velvet-like.
8. Tissue at A. mesenterica superior: fixed, 6 g fragmented lipomatous tissue, max. 0.5 cm.
Completely embedded.
9. Whipple specimen: fixed, a pancreatic head resection specimen, composed of a 5x4x5 cm
(heightxwidthxdepth) large pancreatic head and a c-shaped portion of duodenum/jejunum, 25 cm

, long. Further attached an omentum, partially resected 11x6x1.5 cm. Within the pancreatic
parenchyma at the Proc. uncinatus a 4x3x3 cm large solid, grey/glass—like partially well—defined knot
with white-yellow margin, partially fine cystic areas. The tumor extends into the fatty tissue towards
dorsal, medial, and ventral, forming an edge at the medial resection margin. The remaining
pancreatic parenchyma grey/glass-like fibrotic, only partially at the resection margin regularly
lobulated pancreatic parenchyma with fibrotic parts.
A. Tumor in relation to resection margin ventral, medial
B. Tumor in relation to the resection margin medial
C. additional reference section tumor in relation to resection margin medial
D. Tumor in relation to resection margin dorsal IGCD 42> :3

E.-F. additional reference sections pancreas _ .-

G~ Papll'ae WWW MNDS ﬁscaLB
H. Resection margin bile duct mal- 3' 13
J. resection margin pancreas 54,11;%%Wa015

K. resection margin duodenum 943 é.)5/I L/

L. resection margin duodenum

M. Lymph node peripancreatic above of the papillae

N. large lymph node peripancreatic above the papillae

O. lymph node peripancreatic below the papillae ventral and medial

P. lymph node peripancreatic, below the papillae dorsal

Q. Omentum

10. resection margin bile duct: fixed, a bile duct specimen, 1 cm in diameter, 0.5 cm long

Instantaneous section report

1. Using instantaneous section no evidence for malignancy. There is chlolestasis, moderate portal
inflammation and moderate mixed drop-like adiposis. No evidence for a metastasis (clinically
suspected pancreas head carcinoma).

2. Using instantaneous section detection of an intranodal lymph node metastasis of a mucus forming

adenocarcinoma, two lymph nodes in total. The findings morphologically in line with a pancreas
carcinoma.

3. Lymph node without tumor

4. Resection margin of the pancreas parenchyma is without tumor, no evidence for malignancy. Low
grade PanlN

5. Positive malignancy, there is extensive perineural invasion

Processed: 27 blocks, instantaneous sections, H&E

Microscopy

1. Using paraffin embedded material no evidence for tumor. There is a moderate mixed/drop-like
adiposis and a clear cholestasis. To answer possible fibrosis additional stainings are being done.

2. Using paraffin material detection of a lymph node metastasis of a mucus-forming moderately
differentiated adenocarcinoma.

3. Using paraffin material lymph node without tumor.

4. Using parafﬁn material parenchymatous resection margin without tumor, the D. pancreaticus with
PanlN lb. Focally chronic pancreatitis with atrophic lobules and reactive epithelia of the duct.

5. Using paraffin material soft tissue with wide carcinoma infiltrates and perineural growth pattern
6. Five lymph nodes without tumor.

7. Gall bladder mucosa with fine villi, the epithelium regular. No tumor, no inflammation.

8. fatty tissue with nerve structures, with a clear extension of carcinoma and a lymph node with a
small focus

9. The macroscopically described tumor is histologically a mucus—forming adenokarzinoma, which
shows partially a strong cell and nuclear pleomorphia, frequent bright cellular tumor complexes and
bizarre nuclear structures, partially dissolute tumor growth, extensive stromal desmoplasia. Massive
perineural invasion. Tumor inﬁltration within the peripancreatic fatty tissue. Infiltration of the
duodenal wall musculature at the papillae. Here severe nucear atypia in line with PanlN grade 3 in
the preexisting duct epithelium of D. pancreaticus and lateral ducts. Safety margins to the resection
margins towards medial and dorsal < 0.1 cm, towards ventral 0.2 cm. At the peripancreatic resection
margin no evidence of tumor, too, the epithelium of the D. pancreaticus with PanlN 1b. The resection

margins in the duodenum without tumor. identification of 5 lymph node metastases out of 11 lymph
nodes. The omentum is without tumor.
, 10. Rim of the bile duct is without tumor.

Short report on diagnostic findings

1. Liver biopsy (segement 2/3) with moderate hepatocellular lipomatosis (appr. 40%) and cholestasis.
EvG stain shows only a low portal fibrosis. The iron and PAS stains shown no alterations.

2.-6., 8.-10. Poorly differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head, max. 4 cm large,
with infiltration into the duodenal wall and the peripancreatic fatty tissue, reaching the Arteria
mesenterica superior. Extensive perineural growth. identification of a PanIN 3 within the preexisting
epithelium of the D. pancreaticus and the lateral branches. Safety margin towards dorsal and medial
< 0.1 cm, but presence of tumor at the Arteria mesenteria superior and in the corresponding
additional resection specimen. identiﬁcation of 6 lymph node metastases. Resection margins at
pancreas parenchyma, D. choledochus, and duodenum are all without tumor.

7. Gall bladder without pathological findings.

TNM classiﬁcation (UICC, 7‘" Edition 2010): pT3, N1 (6/19), G3, R1

 

