 

'. SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

ADDENDUM REPORT ONE:

Results of immunohistoohernical staining for DNA mismatch repair enzyme protein expression:

MLH‘i: intact

PMSZ: intact

MSHZ: intact

MSHS: intact

IHC control slides stain appropriately

The immunonistooliemical study of DNA mismatch repair protein expression reveals presence of MLH1,MSH2,MSH6 and PMSZ expression in the tumor
(internal controls stain appropriately) The ﬁndings do not completely exclude underlying Lynch Syndrome since some mutations may result in intact
protein expression. If there are strong clinical ﬁndings suggesting possible Lynch Syndrome. additional M8! by PCR testing is available and can be
ordered on the reseclion specimen.

Addendum Report lssuod Fhr

 

DIAGNOSlS.
A Lymph linden left paraaortic: dissection:
Six benign lymph nodes (016). '

B. Lymph nodes, right paraaortio; dissection:

C. Lymph nodes. left pelvic: dissection:

D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic; dissection:

E. Uterus. cervix, and biialialai adnexa; radial hysterectomy and bilateral salpingomphomctomw

pqumtnowua

.3an

M

. Histologic type: Endornetrioid adenocarcinoma.
. Histologic grade: FlGO grade 2.

A Tumor silo: Endometrium.

. Tumor size: 5.2 cm in greatest dimension.

. involvement ofme Not identiﬁed.

UUID: 83641F93- ACFS- 4483- SACB— 8C8E631F972edd
TCGA- AJ- ASDN- DlA- PR

 

f Sex: Female

MK“ {3:
Ref Ph)

 

 

 

 

Received

‘ Reported: 1

" ADDENDUM REPORT “"

Savor: benign lymph nodes (BIT).
Seven benign lymph nodes (0(7);
Five benign lymph nodes (015).

Tumor Characteristics:

Myometrial invasion: Not identiﬁed.

Extent of involvement of other organs: Tumor is conﬁned to uterus.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:

 

. Margins uninvolved: Cervical, parametrial.
. Margins involved: None.

Lymph, Node Status:

. See parts A-D

Other:

. Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: :

. Unremarkable ovaries, fallopian tubes, and cervix
- lmmunohistochemicai stains for mismatch repair proteins will be performed anti reported in an addendum.

. pTNM stage: pTlaNO‘

 

 

-~ Wm

 

 

' cumcm. HlS‘l‘ORY.

 

 
   

 

Preoperative Diagnosis: Endometrial cancer
Postoperative Diagnosis:
SymptomalRadiologic Flndlnga:

SPEClMENs:

A. Left poriaortic lymph node
B. nght penaorlic lymph node
C. Lott pelvic lymph node

D. Right pelvic lymph node

E. Uterus, cervix. BSD

    

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. The ﬁrst container A is received in formalin labeled with the pationt‘a name r The spoolmen consists of portion of ﬁbroadiposo tissue that
measures 4.5 x 4.0 x 2.0 cm. Sectioning reveals six possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 1.8 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labaer as follows: three probable nodes block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2; one probable node bisected in block
3; one probable node bisected ll'l oloclcs‘l and 5.

B. The second container 8 is received in formalin labeled with the patients name The specimen consists of a portion of ﬁbroadipose
tissue that measures 5.5 x 4.0:: 1.0 om. Sectioning reveals six possible lymph nodes measuring from 0.5 to 1.6 om. The lymph nodes are entirely
submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: three probable nodes block 1; one probable node bisected in block 2; one probable node
bisected in block 3; one probable none mm in block 4; one probable node bisected in block 5.

C. The thlrd container C is received in formalin labele loft pelvic: The specimen oonsists of a portion of ﬁbroadlpose tissue that measures
8.9 x 6.5 x 2.5 an. Sectioning reveals seven possible lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 3.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in
cassettes labeled follows: two probable nodes block 1-. two probable nodes block 2; one probable node sectioned in blocks 3 and 4; one
probable node bisected in blocks 5 and 6: one probable node sectioned in blodrs 7 through 10.

D. The fourth container D is received in formalin labeled with the patients name fight polvio.‘ The specimen consists of a pardon of
ﬁbroadlposa tissue that measures 7.0 x 6.5 v 5’ 5 rm. Sectioning reveals ﬁve posarole lymph nodes that measure from 0.5 to 3.5 cm. Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: one probable node sectioned in blocks 1 and 2', one probable node bisected in
blocks 3 and 4; two probable nodes block 5; one prooaore nude socbonad in blocks 6 through 9.

E. The fillh container E is received in formalin labeled The specimen consists of a uterus with attached cervix, attached bilateral adnexa.
The uterus measmeo 7.5 x 7.5 x 5.2 cm and weighs 139 grams. The aerosol surface oltha uterus is gray-tan to browwlan. The serosa has been inked.
Sections from the parametrium have been taken. The centix is 5.0 on: in length and 2.? cm in diameter. The ectooervix is gray’lan to brown—tan with
hemorrhage. The endomeirial cavity measures 5.0 cm in length and 3.5 cm from porno to comp. The lining measures 0.2 cm. There is a gray-brown.
slightly hemorrhagic shaggy exophytlc mass measuring 5.2 x 2.7 cm that comes within 0.5 cm of the lower uterine segment. On sectioning. the mass
extends superﬁcially into the underlying myomelrium approximately 0.2 cm into a 1.7 cm thiok myornatrium. There are no lesions identiﬁed. The left
ovary measures 25 x 2.0 x 1.5 an. The surface is yellow to gray-tan. On sectioning, there is corpus albioans measuring up to 0.5 cm. The loll fallopian
tube measures 3.5 cm in length and 0.3 cm in diameter. The surface is gray-tan to browmtan. On sectioning, them is no material or lesions identiﬁed.
There is a peritubal cyst measuring 1.0 cm near the ﬁmbrlated and containing clear fluid. The right ovary measures 2.7 x 2.0 x 1.2 cm. The surface is
yellow to gray-tan. On sectioning. there are corpus albimns identified measuring up to 0.3 cm. The right fallopian tube measures 3.2 om in length and
0.3 cm in diameter. The surface is gray-tan to brown-tan. On sectioning. there is no material or lesions identiﬁed within the lumen. The fallopian tube
appeals grossly unremarkable. Received with the specimen are three cassettes. one yellow. one green. one blue labeled - Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes labeled as follows: anterior cervix block 1: posterior cervix block 2: full thickness sections taken
from the lesion bisected as follows - one CR3» awn-m m mocks 3 and 4; one cross section in blocks 5 and 6; one cross section in bloclrs 7 and a; one
cross section in blocks 9 and to; one cross section in blocks 11 and 12: lower uterine segment block 13; left parametrium block 14; right parametrium
block 15; left ovary block 16; left fallopian tube and paratubal cyst in block 17; right ovary block 18: right fallopian tube block 19.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- WW“ ‘N’ Dab-A \7 us Mr: [J
. . Y T
Diagnosis Dmrepanry 4
Primary TUle Site Discrepancy __
IllPAA Dudepaury l _ _ _.
Prior Malignant-l History I. /
l ,

Tual/iynr Ira-ions f'!i rarv i‘ ‘

. Cascislcl llt‘yi m :.:r3l_,u.lr':n _ _‘
Reviewer ﬁlial .Iieweo' I /__,
v - ”lath . ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_.-_______._.._ _._...,__-_..- L.— -1

l

