 

WID:B70019“-FF13-44CB-IGFF~342A6E2R09eGZBa
TCGA- ZF- A9RC- 91A- PR

III lIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEd
IIIH IIIHHI IIII |HI
IIHI IIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIHHIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIH

Lab No:
Sender:
Location:

Taken : ’ Received: Status:
IC D o - 3

PRINTED FROM ENQUIRY am, :5! I 0le 310.2015

SPECIMEN 6:11 (76M 9M” W wow G572

Bladder and prostate. ()2) 5M] 5’
CLINICAL DETAILS

Cystectomy.

MACROSCOPY

A cystoprostatectomy specimen comprising bladder (measuring 78 mm superc-
inferiorly x 68 mm transversely x 62mm antero—posteriorly), prostate (measuring 38
mm supero-inferiorly x 54 mm transversely x-45 mm antero~

posteriorly), perivescular fat up to 45 mm in depth and right and left ureteric stumps
each approx. 35 mm long.

On opening the bladder, there is a tumour on the left lateral wall extending onto the
dome measuring 42 mm

maximum dimension and 18 mm maximum depth. The extent of invasion cannot be
ascertained. The distance to

left pelvic surgical resection margin is approximately 12 mm. The background
bladder mucosa appears normal.

The prostate shows some nodularity. A lymph node measuring 20 mm in maximum
dimension is located deep to the tumour.

Please note

The resection margins and lymph nodes associated with this surgical procedure have
been processed as

MICROSCOPY
Please note

The following report includes the ﬁndings from the resection margins and lymph
nodes processed as

T1» tumour in the bladder is a poorly differentiated (Grade 3) urothelial carcinoma. It
arises from the surface and

invades through muscle to reachjust beyond the muscularis propria into the
extravesical fat. No unequivocal

evidence of Iymphovascular invasion is seen. The background bladder urothelium
shows a focus of cystitis

cystica.but no metaplasia, dysplasia or intraepithelial neoplasia.

The left and right ureteric resection margins show no evidence of tumour and are
lined by normal urothelium. The
urethral resection margin is free of tumour.

The closest peripheral surgical margin lies 11 mm on the left.

The left prostate gland contains-extensive prostatic microacinar adenocarcinoma,
extending from the apex to

the middte of the gland. A small focus is present in the right apex. There is perineural
involvement within the

capsule but no evidence of extracapsular tumour. The prostatic adenocarcinoma has
been fully excised with no

evidence of tumour at intraprostatic or extraprostatic surgical resection margins. The
urethral resection margin

shows no prostatic or urothelial carcinoma.

A total of 21 lymph nodes have been identiﬁed (3 x perivesical; l x right ext. iliac; 1
x left obturator; 2 x left ext.

iliac; 5 x Ieﬁ int. iliac; 3 x right int. iliac; 0 x left common iliac). none of which
contain metastatic urothelial

carcinoma. However, two nodes show metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma (1 out of 3
perivesical, near

right ureter; 1 out of 5 left int. iliac).
SUMMARY

Bladder - urothelial carcinoma, Grade 3 pT3a pNO pr.

Prostate - adenocarcinoma, bilateral, Gleason grade 4 + 3 = 7 (tertiary pattern 5) pT2c
le pr

Pathologists:
DR PATHOLOGIST
DR , CONSULTANT

‘ HIPAA

use
Reviewer initials

 

