ICb»o—3
Cm‘m wrmmmw map/WM
' (

3 , 4 ,4, ﬁI-W 5
uum:535mm-anae-4r7s-ssa7-eocassssams a ) “’7 /3
TCGA-A7-A266-O1A-PR Redacted 31h; W ,w; 650. 5’ A

MMMMMMMMMWMMMMMMMMNMWI
WIMMMMWMMWH
WHHMMWMNMN%WIWMHH

DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE

9%}7/H

     

Date Coll:
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Right axillary sentinel node (hot and blue)
B. Right breast

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Right breast CA at 1 o'clock position

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Benign on frozen section.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh in a container labeled "A. right

sentinel lymph node" is a portion of partially blue stained
fatty tissue containing a soft tan lymph node. The tissue is 3.5 x
2.5 x 0.8 cm in greatest dimensions. On cut surface, there is tan
lymph node tissue with focal blue staining, without grossly
worrisome area. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen
section in three blocks.

B. Received fresh in a container labeled "right breast" is

a breast resection specimen spanning an area 27 x 28 x 7.4
cm. There is an overlying ellipse of brown skin, 27.5 x 15 cm. The
centrally located areola spans an area 6 x 7 cm, with the nipple
measuring 1.7 x 1.8 X 0.5 cm. On the skin surface there is an area
of scar as well as a 0.2 cm papillary lesion. The deep surface of
the specimen is inked. The breast is serially sectioned, and there
is a 2.3 cm in greatest dimension firm tan-white mass lesion, with
focal changes compatible with reaction to prior biopsy. The
location is compatible with the indicated 1 o'clock position. The
mass is not near the deep margin. The specimen outside of this area
consists of yellow adipose tissue with some interspersed tan tissue.
There are no other focal lesions. Rs-ll, following fixation.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 81,32 — nipple; B3 - skin lesion & skin scar; 34-86 —
tumor; B7-BlO — representative breast respectively from upper outer,
upper inner, lower outer. and lower inner quadrants; BRRl — deep
margin, deep to mass.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Serial H&E stained sections and immunostains with
antibodies to keratin (AEl—AE3) are examined. There is no
identifiable tumor on HaE stained sections. There are, however,
isolated cells that immunostain with antibodies to keratin [pNO
(i+)].

B. The following template summarizes the findings in this
part:

Invasive carcinoma: Present
Histologic type: Invasive ductal carcinoma with metaplastic
features (areas of sarcomatoid carcinoma),
Histologic grade:
Overall grade: 3

 

-A-n.

Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 2

Greatest dimension (pT): 2.3 cm (pT2)

Specimen margins: Negative

Vessel invasion: Not definitively identified

Calcification: Not identified

Nipple (Paget's): There is lobular neoplasia in the nipple, with

this interpretation supported by diminished immunostaining on an
immunostain for e-cadherin. Ductal carcinoma is not identified
involving the nipple.

Invasion of skin or chest wall: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Present

Histologic pattern: Solid

Nuclear grade: 3

Central necrosis: Not definitively identified

Extensive intraductal component: Absent

Specimen margins: Negative

Calcification: Not identified

Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes, with
microcalcifications present. BiOpsy site changes. There is a
skin scar. There is also a squamous papilloma in the skin.
Lobular neoplasia is also identified in one of the random sections
of breast (block B9).

Prognostic markers: Previously performed (see

NOTE: This case has been reviewed in Intradepartmental
Consultation, with concurrence with the interpretation.

4X2,14,15X2,20x2

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lymph node, right axillary sentinel, excision
- No identifiable tumor on H&E stained sections, with isolated

keratin positive cells present [pNO (i+)].

B. Breast, right, excision
— Invasive ductal carcinoma with metaplastic features
(sarcoﬁatOid eaferﬁaaa‘Eamponent), see micrdsCopicw
description.
— Skin and deep margin negative for malignancy.
— Lobular neoplasia.
— Changes compatible with reaction to prior biopsy.
— Fibrocystic changes.

(Electronic Signature,

——— End Of Report ---

 
 
  
   
  
    
    

(rite!!!

HIPAA
’m in: Maligrancv
Dunn. nchvarious

C1wi> QUALIFIED ;

 

Reviewer lnllia|s

 

