 

I .‘k TCGA‘VOQQEO‘SK

 

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

BRAIN, LEFT TEMPORAL LOBE: GLIOBLASTOMA MULTIFORME.

Operation/Specimen: Brain, left temporal lobe. 2)Enhancing tumor.
3)Non—enhancing tumor.

Clinical Histor a — - The patient is a survivor of
or the past several years, but recently it has taken a turn for the

worse .

ME CONSULTATION: Glioma with areas of necrosis, by-

GROSS PATHOLOGY: Three fragments of soft grayish—white tissue entirely
submitted after the Intraoperative Consultation in three separate
cassettes.

MICROSCOPIC: All three fragments show evidence of replacement of the
normal brain parenchyma by relatively cellular tumor composed of
fibrillary astrocytes. There is considerable nuclear pleomorphism and
many vessels show hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the endothelial
lining. Occasional atypical mitoses are also visible. The sample
submitted in cassette #3 shows several areas of coagulation necrosis
and at least one large, recently thrombosed vessel.

Additional sections will be reacted with antiserum against MIB—l and an
addendum will be issued when these become available.

SPECIMEN: Enhancing tumor.

FIXATIVE: None.

GENERAL: Triangular portion of grayuwhite to purple rubbery
tissue 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.2 cmi; trisected.

SECTIONS: X1, all.

C.

SPECIMEN: Non~enhancing tumor.

FIXATEVE: None.

GENERAL: Triangular portion of tan—gray rubbery tissue, 1.7 x 1.0

x 0.9 cm.; trisected.

SECTIONS: X2I all.

 

MICROSCOPIC: Two histoloii slides show multiple fragments of a

Page 1

 

    

neop asm composed of anaplastic glial cells, a few of which show the
features of fibrillary astrocytes. The tumor has high cellularity, TCQD A —O€r> -. o [53’
frequent individual necrotic cells and prominent hyperplastic blood

vessels. Atypical mitotic figures are also encountered.

The original diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme remains unchanged.

ADDENDUM: The following dictation has been requested by the attending
physician. ‘

Block #1 from the sample labeled "tumor" shows total effacement of the
brain tissue by highly cellular well vascularized neoplasm composed of
fibrillary astrooytes. There are occasional and very small foci of
necrosis.

#2 from the specimen labeled "low grade" a fragment in which the brain
tissue parenchyma is completely effaced by a highly cellular neoplasm
having microscopic features similar to those described in sample #1.
There are numerous prominent small blood vessels with hyperplastic
endothelial lining.

#3 from the sample labeled “contrast—enhancing lesion" a sample of

neoplastic fibrillary astrocytes that is highly cellular very well

vascularized and contains large vessels with recent thrombosis of the

lumen. Areas of coagulation necrosis are easily visible. Otherwise,

the microscopic features are very similar to those described under 1

and 2. :

Additional sections from block #2 were reacted with antiserum against
MIBwl. On the average, 5 to 10% of the neoplastic cells immunoreact
with MIB—l.

The original diagnosis remains unchanged.

 

 

Page 2

 

 

