— "mstatisticweacm
ll |||||||||lll|||||||||l|||Ill|||I|||||||||l|||||||||||||||

 
 
   

|||I|||l|
llll'lllllllllllllmmuum

Report for

TEST: Surgical Patholo
Collected Date & Time-

Result Name Results , Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology SURGICAL P
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 
 
  
  
 
 

Patient Name:
Accession # '
Med. Rec. #:
Billing Type.
Location;

Service:

Billin '
Taken ted:.
Physicianls):

Specimen(s) Received

. , /cA ’6')
g: gi:::i leggtu:::::r aaaapﬁgmug pvwrfiuak€luoé g/J‘YB
Si iiZS‘Seﬁeiﬁicpiiiiitiodes 5m: Alumna; W- 9
E: Left pelvic lymph nodes
Pathologic Diagnosis ’dqpil

Distal right ureter (A):

- Ureter segment, negative for dysplasia and malignancy.
Distal left ureter (B):

- Benign ureter segment, negative for dySplasia and
malignancy.

Bladder and prostate, radical cystoprostatectomy (C):

— Invasive high—grade urothelial carcinoma (4.5 cm)
invading through detrusor muscle into perivesical adipose tissue.
- Benign margins of surgical resection.

— Negative for lymphovascular and perineural invasion.

— Lymph nodes (5), no tumor present.

— Prostate with scattered microscopic foci of high-grade
prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia; negative for involvement by
transitional cell carcinoma.

— Unremarkable seminal vesicles, negative for involvement by
urothelial carcinoma.

Right pelvic lymph node (D):

— Lymph node (1), no tumor present.

Left pelvic lymph nodes (E):

- Lymph nodes (4), no tumor present.

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST: BLADDER,
RADICAL CYSTECTOMY

Specimen: Bladder, prostate, bilateral seminal vesicles
Procedure: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Site: Left anterior and posterolateral wall

Tumor Size: 4.5 cm

Histologic Type: Urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: Papillary urothelial neoplasm

h

high-grade

Histologic Grade: WHO high~grade

Tumor Configuration: Papillary for noninvasive elements and
infiltrative for invasive elements

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Perivesical fat

Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Additional Pathologic Findings: None

PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT3a, pNO, pMX

NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution‘s Cancer Registry as required
for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage
is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated
and does not incorporate other relevant data. Pathology stage is
only a component to be considered in determining the clinical
stage and should not be confused with nor substituted for it.

The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon's
operative report.

Pri ist:
ectronica u

Clinical History
Bladder cancer.
Intraoperative Consultation

A. Distal right ureter: Negative for carcinoma. (Microscopic
evaluation).

B. Distal left ureter: Negative for carcinoma. (Microscopic
evaluation).

D. Right pelvic lymph node: Benign lymph node. (Microscopic
evaluation).

E. Left pelvic lymph node: Negative for carcinoma. (Microscopic
evaluation).

-.

Gross Description

A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "distal right
ureter" is a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm segment of ureter. The specimen
is inked yellow and entirely submitted in cassette Al—FS.

B. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "distal left
ureter“ is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm segment of ureter. The specimen
is inked black and entirely submitted in cassette Bl—Fs.

C. Received in formalin and labeled "bladder and prostate" is a
469 g, cystoprostatectomy Specimen (15.0 x 13.0 x 6.0 cm). The
specimen comes with an abundant amount of perivesicular adipose
tissue attached. The cystoprostatectomy specimen consists of a
bladder (6.5 x 5.5 x 5.0 cm) with attached right and left ureter
(1.0 cm in length). There is a prostate (5.0 cm from
left~to~right, 3.5 cm from anterior-to~posterior, 3.3 cm from
apex—to-bladder—neck-margin) with attached right seminal vesicle
(3.0 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm), right vas deferens (12.0 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm).
left seminal vesicle (3.5 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm), left vas deferens (3.0
x 0.3 x 0.2 cm). The right side of the specimen is inked blue;
the left side of the specimen is inked black.

In the left anterior and posterior lateral wall of the bladder.
there is a 4.5 x 2.5 x 0.9 cm pink-tan polypoid mass. This lesion
extends across the midline into the right anterior and posterior
bladder and extends towards the bladder—prostate junction. The

 

mass' cut surface is white—tan, firm and extends into the
perivesicular fat. The mass at the posterior bladder, comes to
within 0.5 cm to the perivesicular fat margin (inked black) and
on the anterior bladder is 1.0 cm from the perivesicular fat
margin (inked black). The lesion is 2.5 cm from the nearest
peritonealized surface. The ureteral orifices are patent. There
are no other discrete masses or suspicious areas grossly
identified. The remainder of the mucosa is ten, glistening and
pliable.

The prostate has a white—tan cut surface with no discrete nodules
or masses grossly identified. There are 5 lymph nodes dissected
out ranging from 0.3 to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension.

Also received in the container is a 38 cm in length and 0.8 cm in
diameter, brown—tan rubber tubing consistent with a catheter.
Sections are submitted as follows: Cl - right trigone, C2 - left
trigone, C3 — posterior bladder-prostate transition, C4 ~
anterior bladder—prostate transition, C5~9 — mass in left lateral
posterior wall, C10 - mass and lateral anterior wall, C11 - right
lateral wall, C12 - posterior wall, C13 — anterior wall, C14 -
dome, C15 - right seminal vesicle insertion point and
cross—sections through right seminal vesicle and vas deferens,
C16 — left seminal vesicle insertion point and cross—section
through left seminal vesicle and vas deferens, Cl7-18 — right
anterior apex perpendicularly cut, C19-20 - left apex
perpendicularly cut, C21 — right anterior prostate, C22 — left
anterior prOState, C23-25 — right posterior prostate, C26—28 -
left posterior prostate, C29 — 5 lymph nodes ranging from 0.3 to
1.1 cm in greatest dimension.

D. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "right pelvic lymph
node" is a single lymph node measuring 4.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The lymph node is serially sectioned and entirely
submitted in cassette Dl—FS and DZ—Fs.

E. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "left pelvic lymph
nodes" are 4 lymph nodes ranging from 1.3 to 5.5 cm in greatest
dimension. Sections are submitted as follows: El-FS and E2—FS
contains one lymph node (5.5 cm) inked blue and serially
sectioned, E3—FS - two lymph nodes, one inked yellow, one inked
black, E4-FS and ES-FS - one lymph node (5.0 cm) inked orange and
bisected.

MicroscoPic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic
findings of this case.

If immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization was used the
following applies: This tes ' nce
characteristic determined by .
has not been cleared or approved by e . 3. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). The FDA does not require this test to go
through premarket FDA review. This test is used for clinical
purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing. All special stains

  

It

used have adequate controls.

 

