  

TCGA—AF~2590

     

SPECIMEN
A. Left ovary
B. Rectum and sigmoid

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
Hm ovarian cystic mass, favor serous cyst adenoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled "left ovary"

and consists of a cystic ovary with attached fallopian tube
segment. The fimbriated portion of fallopian tube measures 3.5 cm
in length and 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosal surface and lumen are
unremarkable. The subjacent intact cystic ovary measures 4 x 4 x
3.1 cm. The entire specimen weighs 31 grams. The outer surface of
the cystic mass is smooth and glistening. Upon opening, there is 1
major loculation and several smaller ones. They are all filled with
clear serous fluid. All cyst linings are smooth, tan and
glistening. Representative sections of the cyst wall are submitted
for frozen section in one block. Additional sections are submitted
in three blocks following fixation.

B. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"rectum and sigmoid. The specimen Consists of a 33 cm long
portion of colon which is partially covered with skin at one end.
The opposite end is stapled. The ends are inked. The specimen is
predominantly covered with abundant yellow lobular fat on the
serosa. Specimen is opened to show pink tan smooth glistening
mucosa. There is a large mass toward the distal ends measuring 4.7
x 4.5 x 1.0 cm. This has an ulcerated center with rolled borders and
comes within 2.5 cm. of the pectinate line (4.5 cm. of the distal
margin). The cut surfaCe of the tumor shows invasion through the

GROSS DESCRIPTION
muscularis propria and coming within 0.5 cm. of the radial margin.
The remainder of the mucosa is pink tan smooth glistening with
normal to abundant folds having an average circnmference of 4.5 cm.
Diverticula are grossly identified with no submucosal abscesses or
perforations present. Lymph nodes are grossly identified.
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follOWS.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - representative luminal margins; 2 through 4 —
representative section of tumor which includes tumor to normal and
tumor to radial margins; 5 — representative section of pectinate

 

line; 6 — representative section of normal colon with diverticula; 7
— ll whole lymph nodes.

  

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A. This ovarian cyst has mostly attenuated, flattened
epithelium. In one focus, however, there is a recognizable
monolayer of benign—appearing mucinous columnar epithelium of
endocervical type. The lesion, therefore, is consistent with a
mucinous cystadenoma. The fallopian tube is without significant
pathology.
B. The rectum contains an ulcerated, moderately
differentiated adenocarcinoma. Please see the template
below.
Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): The tumor extends well into the pericolonic
fat, pTSC/d.
Proximal margin: Negative for tumor.
Distal margin: Negative for tumor.
Circumferential {radial} margin: Negative for tumor.
Distance of tumor from closest margin: The tumor is 4.5 cm. from

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

the distal margin.

Vascular invasion: Rare lymphatic invasion present.

Regional lymph nodes {pN}: Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present to
three of twenty—four regional lymph nodes, pN2.

Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: Three foci of non—lymph node
pericolonic soft tissue metastasis are noted. -

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be assessad.

Other findings: Diverticulosis.

14, 4, 5

DIAGNOSIS

A. Left ovary, left salpingo—oophorectomy — Ovary with mucinOus
cystadenoma. Attached fallopian tube, no significant
pathology.

B. Rectum and sigmoid, resection e Infiltrating moderately

differentiated adenocarcinoma of the rectum, extending into
pericolonic soft tissue. All margins are negative for tumor,

but metastatic disease is present to three of twenty—four
regional lymph nodes. Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor is
also noted.

 

