Criteria

____..—————-——-———-'~ UUID:FF97C711-3686-4805-BCSS-SCADCAA‘C‘CI I V":
mi-AA TCGA-ES-AZHT-DiA-PR REdaCted ’ V“
—-—————~—- III I'll" Ill

 

(Luz 3i

    

new“; Patter I” ll
°’" Illl

 

 

 

/ C A , a , 3 N Medic
QWW’ £4,an NV: 9/007) Age: Sex: M
3 th 2 Liver C 92 - 0 W 4/10/11 Service Date:
Accession #:
Patien/t’s location: Report type: Surgical
Date Obtained: Date Received:

Referring Physician/Surgeon(s): ’ 10 Service: Transplant Surgery

 

 

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED] PROCEDURES ORDERED:
A. Segment NE and V of liver A. Trichroms-Masson-Blue

 

CLINICAL HISTORY year old male with history of hepatitis C and hepatocellular carcinoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimen(s) in the Department of Pathology, labeled with the
patient's name and hospital #:

A. Segment NE and V of liver

A. The specimen is received fresh and consists of a 285 gm wedge shaped portion of liver that measures 15.0 x 10.0
x 5.5 cm. The gallbladder is attached to the posterior aspect. Two sides of the specimen are cauterized and
irregular and the other side is covered by glistening smooth capsule. A 2.2 cm diameter subcapsular nodule
partially distorts the anterior surface of segment NB. The nodule is yellow-green and well~circumscribed. lt
distends the capsule 0.4 cm. The nodule is 1.9 cm from the nearest cauterized margin. The tumor does not
invade the vessel adjacent to the mass. The gallbladder is 11.0 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm and is ﬁlled with tenacious thick
green bile and multiple gray-black calculi. The calculi are 0.4 cm in maximum diameter. A small amount of black
sludge is also included. The gallbladder mucosa is granular and gray-tan. The surrounding liver is tan to red-
brown and not cirrhotic. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

A1 Vein at lVB margin
A2 Nearest cauterized margin and tumor
A8—A6 Tumor in adjacent liver
A7 Normal liver
A8 Gailbtadder
DIAGNOSIS:

A. Segment IVB and V of liver, partial hepatectomy:
Moderately—differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with the following features:
- Solitary nodule measuring 2.2 cm in greatest dimension.
- No vascular invasion identiﬁed.
— Resection margin is widely negative.
— AJCC pathologic staging pT1NXMX; TNM staging required by managing physician.
Ancillary diagnoses:
— Background liver with moderate chronic active hepatitis. HAI grade 5 (2 + 0 + 1 + 2) and
bridging fibrosis (ﬁbrosis stage 4 out of 6), consistent with hepatitis C infection.
- Gallbladder with chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis.
- Masson trichrome stain supports the diagnosis.

 

Patient Name:
Medical Recoru n.
Accession #J
Page

"I. or my qualiﬁed designee. have performed the gross examination and description and l have personally reviewed the gross description and
specimen preparations referenced herein. and have personally issued this report.‘

Residenl/Prosector/Pathologist. .. .
ICD9 Codes: 155.0 070.9 575.11 574.20

Diagnostic/Retrieval Codes: .’

Note: Test systems have been developed and their perionnance characteristics determined by .' Some tests have not been cleared or
approved by the us. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. Inese tests are used for clinical purposes and
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA—88) as
quaiiﬂed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Pau iologist
Electronically signed

20f2

