 

Phone

 

Revised Surgical Pathology Report

Reason for revision: _ requested clarification of the lymph
node count.

Diagnosis

A. Subtotal distal gastrectomy, perigastric lymph nodes and omentum,
resection:

Adenocarcinoma, intestinal type, poorly differentiated

Tumor focally invades subserosal connective tissue (pT3)
Metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2 of 19 lymph nodes (le)

Resection margins negative for tumor

Background of moderate acute and chronic gastritis with intestinal
metaplasia.

Immunohistochemical stain is negative for Helicobacter pylori
B. Hepatic artery lymph node, biopsy:

Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor.

Benign adipose tissue

C. Portal vein lymph node, biopsy:

2 lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/2)

Benign adipose tissue
D. Splenic artery lymph node, biopsy:

4 lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (0/4).

Benign adipose tissue

Microscopic Description:

Microscopic examination performed.

A. Template summary of partial gastrectomy-

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, intestinal type

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor size: 7.4 x 4.5 x 1.6 CM

Primary tumor (pT): Tumor invades through the muscular wall focally in
A6. (pT3)

Proximal margin: Negative

Distal margin: Negative

Radial margin: Negative

Distance of tumor from closest margin: 2 cm from distal margin
Vascular invasion: Not identified

Regional lymph nodes (pN): 2 of 19 regional lymph nodes positive for
metastatic tumor. One positive lymph node is from the lesser curvature
and one is from the greater curvature. Largest metastatic focus is 4
mm (le)

Distant metastasis (pM): Not evaluated (pMX)

Other findings: There is background moderate acute and chronic
gastritis with intestinal metaplasia. No Helicobacter pylori organisms
were identified by immunohistochemical stain.

B. Separately submitted lymphnodes were all negative for tumor.

Specimen

A. Subtotal distal gastrectomy, perigastric lymph nodes, and omentum
B. Hepatic artery lymph nodes

C. Portal vein lymph node

D. Splenic artery lymph node

Clinical Information
Gastric cancer
Procedure is a subtotal gastrectomy please count 15 lymph nodes

Gross Description

A. Received fresh is an unopened distal gastrectomy which measures 20
cm along the greater curvature, 13 cm along the lesser curvature, and
4.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The serosa is smooth tan—pink with
an area of retraction and focal induration at the distal end
(subsequently inked blue). A scant amount of attached perigastric fat
and a copious amount of unremarkable omentum are received in
association with the specimen. The proximal and distal margins measure
17.0 and 4.4 cm in circumference respectively. Both margins are
secured by a staple line which is subsequently removed. On opening,
there is a 7.4 x 4.5 cm rubbery tan-white-to red tumor mass within the
distal portion of the specimen with raised rolled edges. The tumor is
located 2 cm from the distal margin (following removal of the staple
line) in the fresh state. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
gastric mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On
sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.6 cm, extending to
within 0.3 cm of the inked serosal surface the remaining gastric mucosa
is tan—pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.8 cm. Several
slightly rubbery white pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
measuring up to 1.3 cm in greatest dimension are recovered as follows:
9 along the lesser curvature and 14 along the greater curvature. RS 18
Summary: 1 - perpendicular sections proximal margin; 2 through 4 —
perpendicular sections to tumor to distal margin (inked orange); 5
through 8 - tumor to inked serosal surface; 9 - tumor to proximal
normal mucosa; 10 and 11 — random normal; 12 - 5 lymph nodes lesser
curve; 13 — 4 lymph nodes lesser curve; 14 - 6 lymph nodes greater
curve; 15 - 5 lymph nodes greater curve; 16 through 18 - one bisected
lymph node per cassette greater curve

B. Received fresh labeled "hepatic artery lymph nodes" is a 3.0 x 2.3
x 1.4 cm portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. A single,
1.4 cm tan to red tissue in keeping with lymph node is recovered. AS3
Summary: 1 - bisected lymph node; 2 and 3 - residual adipose tissue

C. Received fresh labeled "portal vein lymph node" is a 1.5 cm soft
tan-red tissue in keeping with lymph node with a moderate amount of
associated adipose tissue. AS 2

Summary: 1 - bisected lymph node; 2 - residual adipose tissue.

D. Received fresh labeled "splenic artery lymph node" is a 4.4 x 2.9 x

1.5 cm portion of soft, lobulated tan gold adipose tissue. Two

slightly rubbery tan-red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring

0.5 and 0.9 cm in greatest dimension are recovered. AS 4

Summary: 1 - one lymph node; 2 - one bisected lymph node; 3 and 4 -
idual adipose tissue

