 

7 uumﬁsacsscs-2534-4Aon-9FF1-13F5c0A7190A
TCGA-XU-ASBl-BlA-PR Redacted “

'"""'"'iiii!Eiiihiiiil'i‘iéii'a'ﬁﬁ'hi

 

Patient Name

MEN: Service: ' Collected:
DOB: , _ Visit # : Resulted:
Gender:F Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

ICED 0 x3
Oil/MW, gﬁw

3685/6

issﬁﬂés) RECEIVED _ 592i LIL/”4w 0437‘?
gum/aim

DIAGNOS IS
1. Thymus, resection (thymoma):
a) Thymoma, WHO type 83 (see Comment), with:
i) Greatest tumor dimension = 3.7 cm
ii) Multifocal microscopic invasion into mediastinal fat present

iii) Painted resection margins negative for tumor
b) Thymic tisSue with involutional changes
c) One parathyroid gland without significant abnormality

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Not specified

Tumor Site: Thymus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.7 cm
Histologic Type: Type B thymoma, B3 (epithelial,
atypical, squamoid, well-differentiated thymic carcinoma)
Pathologic Staging: Stage IIa: Microscopic transcapsular
invasion '

Regional Lymph nodes: pNX: Cannot be assessed
Distant Matastasis: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor
COMMENT

Sections show an encapsulated tumor composed of nests of cells separated
by thick fibrous septae. Several areas of microscopic transcapsular
invasion into the surrounding fat are noted, but the painted margins of

Status: supplemental Page: 1 of

Department of Pathology

 

Patient name:

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: \ Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:F Location:

Facility:

ordering MD:

 

resection appear free of tumor. The majority of the tumor cells are
polygonal, with mildly atypical nuclei containing single nucleoli. The
tumor is predominantly epithelial, with only occasional interspersed
small lymphocytes present in most of the tumor (WHO BB pattern). However,
a few areas of increased numbers of lymphocytes are noted (WHO 32
pattern). The tumor cells stain positive for high and low molecular
weight keratins, CK 5/6 and p63 by immunohistochemistry. Rare small
lymphocytes stain positive for CD1a through most of the tumor, with more
CDla lymphocytes present in some areas.

Overall, the findings are in keeping with thymoma, WHO B3 type (aka
epithelial thymoma, well-differentiated thymic carcinoma), with
microscopic invasion of surrounding fat (modified Masaoka stage IIa).

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY:

CLINICAL HISTORY
MZASTHENIA GRAVIS

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “thymus:
Thymomaﬁ.

One irregular piece of adipose tissue, with overall measurements of 15.5
x 7.5 x 1.7 cm, which weighs 32.2 g and is painted with silver nitrate
Tumor: Relatively well circumscribed, measuring 3.7 x 1.1 x 2 .5 cm,
with a tan, irregular, soft parenchyma.

Tissue banking: The tumor and normal tissue are sampled for tissue
banking.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

lA-lD tumor

1E-1J adipose tissue

51w ‘7 m m

Crlaﬂl

Diagnosis 0330!?

pm.” Tumor Sits Dlxtepancv
HIPAA DBUEDIM‘I

 

 

Prior Mawmncv “m

“In”; are" P 'nm N 05‘ M

ankmm¢ ’ , ,

Reviewer "mill ' I y I
__,l'——»—-.

 

'_'_”_____#_ﬂ_n_i

Status: supplemental Page: 2 of 2

