 

SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT COLON, PARTIAL COLECTOMY" (27 cm):

ADENOCARCINOMA, with focal mucinous features, low grade, moderately
differentiated {4.5 cm in greatest dimension).

Tumor is located in right colon, forms a polypoid mass, is ulcerative, is
diffusely infiltrative, and has an infiltrating border.

Tumor invades through mnscularis propria into serosa.
Proximal and distal resection margins are negative for tumor.

Invasive tumor is 7 cm from proximal resection margin, 13 cm from distal
resection margin, and 0.2 cm from radial resection margin.

Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.
Extramural venous invasion is not identified.
Perineural invasion is not identified.
Peritumoral lymphoid response [including Crohn's—like infiltrate) is mild.
Residual adenoma is absent-
Regional lymph nodes (positive: total): 0:22.

AJCC Classification (6th edition): pT3a N0 MK.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Not provided

Operation: Lap—assisted right colectomy
Operative Findings: Not previded
Clinical Diagnosis: Colon ca

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
All. Right colon

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient's name, unit number,
and "#1. Right colon", and consists of a right colectomy specimen including
terminal ileum (7-6 cm in length x 2.0 cm in diameter) with a stapled proximal
resection margin (11.0 cm) and ascending colon (20.0 cm in length x 3.5 cm in
diameter) with a distal stapled resection margin [4.1 cm). No appendix is
identified. The proximal resection margin is inked blue and the distal
resection margin is inked black. A tan/black tattoo (6.2 cm x 4.0 cm) is
approximately 6-0 cm distal from the ileocecal valve. A_tan/pink polypoid,
centrally ulcerating mass (4.5 x 4.0 x 3.0 cm) is present 7.0 cm from the
proximal resection margin, 13.0 cm from the distal resection margin, and 1.5 cm
distal from the ileocecal valve. The serosa underlying the mass is puckered
and is inked orange. The mass abuts the radial margin. The area surrounding

 

   

' ﬁat-seesaw e res

 

“5::

3’21:

 

