UUID: EBBSEFSD- :9EA-4DBD-BIISC-60C5156|;Ce236acted
IIlI
ll

Iniiliiiiiliﬁiiiiiiiiﬁliﬂﬁﬁiiiﬁii‘nulWillill
lllllll lllllll llllllll
lllllillllilllllllll...

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:

MR #: SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #2

LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: F DATE RECEIVED:

DOB: TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:

‘ I®~o 3
MW HOS (9890/5

5411: WLMN 0.54 9‘

' -year-old female with a history of leiomyosarcoma of the endometrium. ‘3 (9/ i 3/ I L,

A: uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries-tumor bank

A. Uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

Uterus: Leiomyosarcoma with necrosis, focally protruding through the uterine serosal surface and focally involving the
cervix. See comment.

Bilateral fallopian tubes: No diagnostic abnormalities.
Bilateral ovaries: Benign inclusion cysts. Negative for tumor.

The sarcoma shows multiple foci of necrosis and has a high mitotic rate of greater than 40 mitoses/10 hpf. Foci of significant
nuclear atypia are noted. lmmunostains performed demonstrate that the sarcoma is positive for desmin, caldesmon and HHF—35

and is negative for pancytokeratin, supporting the diagnosis. The M|B1 proliferative rate is high (approximately 60 — 70%). The
sarcoma invades into the myometrium.

UTERUS:

Specimen: Uterus and bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries
Procedure: Simple hysterectomy

Specimen Integrity: Intact hysterectomy specimen

Tumor Site: Posterior endomyometn'um

Tumor Size: 29.5 cm in greatest dimension
HistologicType: Leiomyosarooma

Endocervicai involvement: Present

Extent of Involvement of Other Organs: Not identified
Peritoneal Ascitic Fluid: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Uninvolved by sarcoma. However sarcoma focally protrudes through the uterine serosal surface.
Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes: Not applicable

Gross Picture Taken: Yes

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT1bNx

Primary Tumor (pT)
pT1 b: Tumor more than 5 cm

 

MR #: Page 1 of 2
Date of Printing SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Number:

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #:

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pNX: Cannot be assessed

Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reflects only current pathologic data and does not
incorporate full knowledge of the patients clinical status and/or prior pathology.

Agestagion:

By this signature, I attest that l have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.

***Electronically Signed Out By***
Interpreted by: ' r '7

A. Received fresh labeled with the patient‘s name and "uterus, cervix. bilateral tubes and ovaries" is a 3471 gram hysterectomy
specimen that measures 30.9 x 26.5 x 14.5 cm. The serosa is tan—pink and extending from the left lateral/posterior wall is a 6.5 x
4.5 cm mass that has broken through the serosal surface. The area surrounding this defect is inked black. The cervical as is
round and measures 4.5 cm. The uterus is bivalved coronally to reveal a 29.5 x 22.1 x 13.9 cm necrotic yellow-white and pink
mass located predominantly within the posterior endometrium. A 4.5 x 4.2 x 3.5 cm portion of this mass is extending through the
cervical 05. Central portions of this mass are calcified.

Attached to the uterus is an 8.5 cm in length by 0.4 cm in diameter tan-pink, smooth fimbriated left fallopian tube that is serially
sectioned to reveal an unremarkable pinpoint lumen. Adjacent to the left fallopian tube is a 2.1 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm Iobular tan-pink left
ovary that is bivalved to reveal a variegated tan—pink cut surface.

Also attached to the uterus is a 7.5 cm in length by 0.6 cm in diameter tan-pink ﬁmbriated right fallopian tube that is serially
sectioned to reveal an unremarkable pinpoint lumen. There is a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm smooth walled cyst within the fallopian tube
that is serially sectioned to reveal a clear watery fluid. Adjacent to the right fallopian tube a 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm tan—white, smooth

ovary that is bivalved to reveal a variegated tan-pink cut surface. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
A1 12:00 Cervix.

A2 Anterior lower uterine segment.
A3 6:00 Cervix.

A4 Posterior lower uterine segment.
A5 Full thickness anterior wall.

A6—A7 Representative sections of the tumor that is erupting through the left lateral wall (to the inked surface).
A8-A11 One full thickness section from the posterior wall (serially sectioned).

A12-A19Addltional representative sections from the mass.

A20 Representative sections of the left fallopian tube.

A21-A22 The entire left ovary.

A23 Representative sections of the right fallopian tube.

A24-A25Entire right ovary.

A26-A28Additional anterior cervix (to the inked black circumferential resection margin).

A29 Right parametrium.

A30 Left parametrium.

A31 Representative section from a tumor nodule within the anterior cervical/lower uterine segment.

lf immunohistochemical stains and/or in situ hybridization are cited in this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the

in compliance with CLlA 88
regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of “analyte speciﬁc reagents" and are subject to speciﬁc labeling requirements by the FDA. Known
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the _

It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary.

 

MR #2 0’1
Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY R

Reviewer Reviewed:

 

