SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number :

 

Diagnosis:

A: Liver, capsule at lesser curve of stomach, excision

- Dense fibrous tissue with chronic inflammation and necrotic
debris with

numerous hemosiderin laden macrophages

— Negative for malignancy

B: Liver, segments 2 and 3, left hepatic resection

Histologic tumor type/subtype: hepatocellular carcinoma (see
comment)

Histologic grade: grade 3 of 4 (Edmondson and Steiner
classification)

Maw ’5 . ,
Tumor location: segments 2 and 3 d ( Aa“?ﬁuﬂuhqam:.ﬂ7q3
@mwmmﬂﬂyz
.. 21:?! c,:1.;.{.0 ,
Tumor size: 10 cm _gk¢, ’éu/Jﬁqﬂ'
Focality/extent: unifocal

Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: present; tumor appears
approximately 75%

viable

VaSCUlar invasion: present mIIuIuﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬁ‘il'ﬁﬁuu u "“3““
. , . _ . . mm: rru1mumImtImImtIunlirllllllu'mt'l'rllllllﬂlﬂI"

Parananral annasvom not identified mmunmmnmnnunmummmuummummm

Capsular invasion: not identified

Margins: negative for malignancy; tumor is 4 mm from the cranial
hepatic margin and 4 mm from the caudal hepatic margin

Background liver: mild macrovesicular steatosis involving
approximately 20%
of hepatic parenchyma

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2 pNx
NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the

time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical
review and

additional information.

Comment:

Immunohistochemical stains are performed and demonstrate the
tumor is diffusely

positive for HepPar- 1 while being negative for CK7 and CKZO.
Vimentin and CD31

outline blood vessels. Overall the immunohistologic and
immunohistochemical

features are consistent with hepatocellular carcinoma.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section was requested by Dr. on _ , . at from

FSAl: Liver, capsule at lesser curve of stomach, biopsy
- Chronic inflammation and fibrosis

Drs. at am on
Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:

The patient is a ,—year-old female with a clinical diagnosis of
hepatocellular

carcinoma. Operation being performed is "left hepatic
resection". As per Web

Cis, the patient has a 9.2 x 8.9 mass involving segments 2 and 3
in the left

lobe of the liver.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "liver capsule at lesser
curve of stomach"

and holds one tan cassette and bits of soft tissue. The cassette
is

additionally labeled "MSll- FSAl". At frozen section specimen A
is

described as weighing 1.7 grams and measuring 3.4 x 1.7 x 0.5 cm
and appears as

a red/tan soft tissue fragment that was serially sectioned. A
representative

section was submitted into block FSAl. On gross examination the
remaining
strips of soft tissue are submitted into blocks A1 and A2 with
no tissue
remaining.

Container B is additionally labeled "hepatocellular carcinoma,
segments 2 and 3

of liver, long stitch = cranial hepatic margin at IVC, short
stitch = caudal

hepatic margin".

Specimen Type: Left hepatic resection, segments 2 and 3

Specimen Weight: 480 grams

Measurement: 12.4 x 10.7 x 8.7 cm

Orientation: The margin of resection has been previously inked
as

follows: long stitch half/black (cranial), short stitch
half/blue (caudal).

Mass: The cut section of the liver parenChyma shows a 10 x 7.9 x
7.5 cm yellow/tan mass; focal areas of hemorrhage and necrosis
are evidence,

with an estimate percent necrosis at 30%

Adjacent liver tissue: Tan with no other masses or lesions
identified.

Capsule: Shows focal fibrofatty adhesions with an area of the
liver mass. The remaining portion of the capsule is smooth.
Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: N/A

Margins: At closest approach, the liver mass is 0.3 cm away from
the margin of resection.

Gallbladder: Not present

Block Summary:
Inking: Cranial margin/black, caudal margin/blue

Bl-B2 - Tumor and margin of resection

BB —

B4—B9 — Tumor, representative sections
810 ‘ Liver and normal liver, transition

Bll — Normal liver

