 

CLINICAL HISTORY

has had headaches for about _ and
generalized weakness. On imaging, there is a 4.6 cm superior right frontal .
mass with T1 central hyperintensity, fluid levels, rim thickened enhancement, |
and broad attachment to falx. |

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Brain tumor—craniotomy

Operation/Specimen: A: Brain,right frontal lesion, biopsy
: Brain, right frontal lesion, biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

Brain, right frontal, excisional biopsies:

1. Malignant glioma, pleomorphic, superficial (WHO III).
2. MIB—l proliferation index: 35%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

The neoplasm is a malignant proliferation of spindle/epithelioid cells that
have prominent pleomorphism, focally brisk mitotic activity, and a high MIB—l
proliferation index of about 35% throughout. The tumor is superficial, is
growing focally in the leptomeningeal space, and has a prominent reticulin
network. The tumor heavily infiltrates the brain, at its margins has
astrooytic differentiation, and contains numerous eosinophilic granular
bodies. Xanthomatous cells are found occasionally.

Overall, the histological features are more consistent with an anaplastic
pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA), in spite of the paucity of GFAP
expression, a feature that has been observed in some PXAs, particularly when
transformed into anaplastic tumors. The possibility of this tumor being a
gliosarcoma has been considered; however the absence of a clear sarcomatous
pattern, microvascular cellular proliferation, and tumor necrosis does not
support that diagnosis at this point.

The features in the biopsy may be correlated with clinical, imaging, and
operative findings for their final interpretation and patient's follow up.

 

Page 1

 

 

 

INTRAHOPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A.
"Brain,right frontal lesion, biopsy":

1. Touch pre and smears: Spindle cell neoplasm, R/O hi h
histolo ical grade. Touch preparation smears performed a_
— and results reported to the Physician of Record.

. Frozen sections: Spindle cell neoplasm, sarcomatous pattern.-
Frozen section performed at and results reported to the
Physician of Record. More tissue coming.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A.
"Right frontal lesion",

Received fresh, four fragments, 1.7 cm in aggregate. Semi firm, glistening,
tan. In total, A1 and A2. Frozen tissue A3.

B. Brain, right frontal lesion, biopsy:
FIXATIVE: None. NO. PIECES: 5 tan-pink, soft, glistening tissue fragments.
SIZE/VOL: 5 up to 11 mm. CASSETTES: 1,

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

 

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates paucity of fibrillary processes
in the bulk of the neoplasm, where there are only small islands of
gliofibrillogenesis; focally, where the tumor is infiltrative there is also
gliofibrillogenesis by the neoplastic cells; these areas are also positive
with 8100, synaptophysin, MAP2, and NFP. Many cells throughout the tumor are
positive with KPl. SMA, HHF35, and CD34 depict leptomeningeal vessel, and a
microvasculature devoid of microvascular cellular proliferation. The neoplasm
is negative with vimentin, EMA, cytokeratin, desmin, and 0099.

SPECIAL STAINS: The PAS w/wo diastase demonstrates numerous eosinophilic
granular bodies. The Snook's reticulum shows rich background of reticulin
fibers.

ICD—9(s):
191.9 191

 

   

Histo Data
Part A: Brain ri ntal lesion, bio s
ken: Received:
stain/on Block Ordered Comment

SMA-DA x l l
HHF35mDA x l l

 

Page 2

 

  

CD34— DA x l
Desmin— DA x l
mmunolab. Enough???
EMA—DA x 1
FS H/E x l
mGEAP—DA x l
HIE X 1
KeratinSu x 1
CAM5.2 x l
KPl-DA x 1
MIBl—DA X 1
CD99~DA X l
NeuN x l
NFZFll x 1
PAS X l
PAS d x l
Retic x l
SlOOsDA x 1
Synap—DA x 1
TPS H/E x 1
M Trich x l
Vim—DA x l
H/E x l
HIE x 1

Part B: ’ '
Taken:
Stain/on

CDBduDA x l
mGFAP—DA x 1
”/E x 1
Pl-DA X l
NFZFll x l
SlOO-DA x l

*** End of Report ***

 

wrokaH+4eaplee4eawlusaenHsaeiwresaw

ontal lesion,
Received:
Block

1

HFAP‘Hld

There are blanks in

Please also run MAPZ

bioisi

Comment

Please also run MAPZ

    

 

Page 3

 

