SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
Case Number :

Diagnosis:
A: Gingiva, maxillary, biopsy
— Acanthotic squamous mucosa with acute and chronic inflammation

- No dysplasia or malignancy identified jﬁ12>43~£3

(£49 I 33 coil/DECS
B: Nerve, right mental, biopsy / 3 ?b‘zs/a5
— Large nerve - é
— No malignancy identified 511: ngﬂﬁ‘ﬂdﬁ/a

C: Nerve, left mental, biopsy

- Large nerve W9 “Ski/’3
— No malignancy identified

D: Bone marrow, left, biopsy

— Squamous mucosa overlying bony spicules with adherent squamous
cell carcinoma consistent with positive bone marrow margin

E: Nerve, left lingual, biopsy UUID: :ZEéXFgg- ‘2];5-8‘21fAAFP2RS- -03EFBIBC5E3eSd
— Large nerve IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII”IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIeIIdIIIIIIIted
‘ NO malignancy identified mIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

F: Nerve, right lingual, biopsy
— Large nerve
— No malignancy identified

G: Bone marrow margin, right, biopsy
— Bone and bone marrow
— No malignancy identified

H: New bone marrow left #2, biopsy
— Bone and bone marrow
— No malignancy identified

I: Mandible, left posterior body, resection

- Anterior and posterior bone margins are negative

— No diagnostic carcinoma identified (see comment)

— Squamous mucosa with ulceration and underlying granulation
tissue also present

— Marrow fibrosis and fat necrosis

J: Lymph nodes, left neck Level 2, dissection
- 3 of 19 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma, size 3.0 cm in greatest dimension with extracapsular

extension (3/19)
— Background submandibular gland with areas of oncocytosis also
present

K: Lymph nodes, left neck Level 28, dissection
— Seven lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/7)

L: Lymph nodes, right neck Level 3, dissection
Five lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/5)

M: Lymph nodes, right neck Level 4, dissection
Seventeen lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/17)

N: Lymph nodes, left neck Level 2, dissection

— 2 of 3 lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma, 4.0 cm in greatest dimension with extracapsular
extension (2/3)

0: Lymph nodes, right neck Level 2B, dissection
— Five lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/5)

"U

Lymph nodes, left neck Level 3, dissection
Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6)

I

Q: Lymph node, left neck Level 4, dissection
Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6)

R: Anterior mucosal margin, left, excision
- Benign squamous mucosa with acute and chronic inflammation

8: Anterior mucosal margin, right, excision
— Benign squamous mucosa with marked acute inflammation

T: Mandible, tongue, floor of mouth, resection

Tumor type: invasive squamous cell carcinoma

Tumor grade: moderately differentiated

Size: 5.9 x 5.9 x 4.1 cm, located at the floor of mouth and
extending anteriorly into tongue and invading the soft tissues
of the bilateral neck, and bone

Surgical Margins:

— En face right mucosal and soft tissue margin is positive for
invasive carcinoma involving fibrous tissue (see comment)

— Left en face mucosal and soft tissue margin is negative

— Right and left bone margins are negative

- Black inked inferior margin POSITIVE (see comment)

— Invasive carcinoma is 5 mm from blue inked posterior margin

Squamous cell carcinoma in situ: not identified
Lymphovascular invasion: present

Large vessel invasion: present

Perineural invasion: present

Bone invasion: Present

Lymph nodes in this specimen:

— 2 rounded soft tissue nodules are identified in the bilateral
neck (left is size 2.8 cm and right is size 2.5 cm), and may
represent completely replaced lymph nodes in bilateral neck
level 1 versus discrete tumor masses within soft tissue. These
are considered positive bilateral level 1 lymph nodes for
staging purposes

— Additional 3 negative lymph nodes in left neck Level I

- Additional 4 negative lymph nodes in right neck Level 1

— See additional sections for separately submitted lymph nodes
from other levels.

Other findings:

— Extensive tumor necrosis

— Anterior tongue shows verrucous hyperplasia with superficial
candida and bacterial colonies

— Acute and chronic sialadenitis with atrophy, oncocytosis and
duct ectasia

- P16 pending (T26) and an addendum will be issued with the
result. HPV—High risk was previously performed on the outside
biopsy (see

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT4a pN2c pr

NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information
available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

Comment:

The representative sections of central bone for specimen I show
disruption of tissue and fragments of detached squamous
epithelium. The squamous epithelium is not atypical however, and

artifactual disruption of overlying squamous mucosa is favored.
There is no diagnostic carcinoma identified in this specimen.

The positive margins in specimen T may be superseded by the
frozen sections. Recommend correlation with clinical assessment
and operative findings.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

A frozen section was requested by Dr. from on at
(A), (B), (C), (D),

(E—G) and (H).

FSAl: Maxilla gingiva, biopsy
— Squamous epithelium with marked chronic inflammation; no tumor
seen

FSBl: Mental nerve, right, biopsy
— Peripheral nerve; no tumor seen

FSCl: Mental nerve, left, biopsy
— Peripheral nerve, no tumor seen

FSDl: Bone marrow, left, biopsy
- Intact squamous mucosa overlying bony spicules of adherent

squamous cell carcinoma, consistent with positive bone marrow
margins

FSEl: Lingual nerve, left, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSFl: Lingual nerve, right, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSGl: Bone marrow, right, biopsy
- No tumor seen »

FSHl: Bone marrow, left margin #2, biopsy
— No tumor seen

(B) and (C)

Drs. at (A),
(D), (E-G) and (H)

Drs. at

FSRl: Anterior mucosal margin, left, biopsy
— Negative for tumor

FSSl: Anterior mucosal margin, right, biopsy
- Negative for tumor

Drs. on at

Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:

—year—old with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity

Gross Description:
Received are twenty appropriately labeled containers. Containers
A—H and R—S are received fresh for frozen section.

Container A is additionally labeled "maxilla gingiva," It holds
a 0.6 X 0.5 x 0.5 cm tan fatty tissue fragment. (Block FSAl,
Container B is additionally labeled "right mental nerve." It

holds a 5 x 5 x 4 mm tan soft tissue fragment. (Block FSBl,

Container C is additionally labeled "left mental nerve." It
holds a 4 x 4 x 3 mm tan soft tissue fragment. (Block FSCI,

Container D is additionally labeled "left bone marrow." It holds
a 3 x 3 x 3 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment. (Block FSDl,

Container E is additionally labeled "left lingual nerve." It
holds a 7 x 3 x 3 mm tan soft tissue fragment. (Block FSEl,

Container F is additionally labeled "right lingual nerve." It

holds an 8 x 4 x 3 mm tan soft tissue fragment. (Block FSFl,

Container G is additionally labeled "right bone marrow margin."
It holds a 5 x 4 x 3 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment. (Block
FSGl,

Container H is additionally labeled "new left bone marrow

margin." It holds a 4 x 4 x 3 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment.
(Block FSHl,

Container I is additionally labeled "left posterior mandible
body." It holds a segment of bone with overlying soft tissue and
mucosa measuring anterior to posterior (1.4 cm), superior to
inferior (2.3 cm), and lateral to medial (2.6 cm). There is a
stitch designating the anterior. The bone is from anterior to
posterior, 1.6 cm; from medial to lateral, 1.1 cm; from superior
to inferior, 2.1 cm. The specimen is serially sectioned to
reveal a pale tan nodule (0.3 x 0.2 cm) within the bone marrow.
The discoloration is 1.1 cm from the blue inked margin.

Block summary:

11 - anterior margin, en face
12 — posterior bony margin, en face
13,14 - representative sections of bone and overlying soft

tissue, including pale tan discoloration
Specimen submitted following decal.

Container J is additionally labeled "right neck Level 2." It
holds two fragments of yellow fatty tissue in aggregate
measuring 6.4 x 3.1 x 2.6 cm. Within the fatty tissue there are
multiple lymph node candidates ranging in size from 0.8 to 3.0
cm. The largest lymph node candidate is 3.0 x 2.3 x 1.4 cm and
has a red/brown exterior. The specimen is serially sectioned and
found to have cavitary interior (greatest diameter is 0.8 cm)
filled with a yellow/red viscous fluid.

Block Summary:

J1—J6 - serially sectioned, largest lymph node candidate
J7 - four lymph node candidates

J8 — three lymph node candidates

J9 — four lymph node candidates

J10 — four lymph node candidates

J11 — bisected lymph node candidate

J12 - two bisected lymph node candidates, one inked blue
J13 - one lymph node candidate

Container K is additionally labeled "left neck Level 2B." It
holds a yellow/red fatty tissue measuring 2.1 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm.
Within the fatty tissue a firm lymph node candidate is
identified (0.7 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm).

Block Summary:

K1 — lymph node candidate
K2 - representative section of fat,

Container L is additionally labeled "right neck Level 3." It
holds a yellow/red fatty tissue measuring 4.4 x 2.2 x 1.5 cm.
Within the fatty tissue there are multiple firm, red/brown lymph
node candidates ranging in size from 0.7 to 1.3 cm in greatest
dimension.

Block summary:

Ll — three lymph node candidates
L2 — two lymph node candidates
Tissue remains in the container.

Container M is additionally labeled "right neck Level 4." It
holds yellow/red fatty tissue measuring 4.7 x 2.1 x 1.3 cm.
Within the fatty tissue there are multiple firm red/brown lymph
node candidates ranging in size from greatest diameter from 0.3
to 1.0 cm.

Block Summary:

M1 — three lymph node candidates
M2 — three lymph node candidates
M3 — two lymph node candidates

Tissue remains in the container.

Container N is additionally labeled "left neck Level 2." It
holds yellow/red fatty tissue with cautery artifact measuring
5.9 x 4.4 x 2.3 cm. Within the fatty tissue there are multiple
red/brown firm lymph node candidates ranging in size from 0.8 cm
to 4.0 cm. The largest lymph node candidate is 4.0 x 2.2 x 1.9
cm; it is serially sectioned to reveal pale tan tissue speckled
with multiple white nodules and oozing a opaque white/tan fluid.

Block summary:

Nl—N7 — serially sectioned, largest lymph node candidate
N8 — bisected lymph node candidate

N9 — three lymph node candidates

Container 0 is additionally labeled "right neck Level ZB." It
holds three red/yellow fatty soft tissue fragments in aggregate

measuring 2.0 x 1.7 x 0.8 cm. Within the fatty tissue there is
one palpated lymph node candidate measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm.

Block Summary:

01 — one lymph node candidate and representative sections of
fat,

Container P is additionally labeled "left neck Level 3." It
holds a fragment of yellow/red fatty tissue with cautery
artifact measuring 4.7 x 2.2 x 0.9 cm. Within the fatty tissue
there are multiple firm red/brown lymph node candidates
ranging in size in greatest diameter from 0.4 to 1.8 cm.

Block Summary:

P1 — five lymph node candidates
P2 — largest lymph node candidate
Tissue remains in the container.

Container Q is additionally labeled "left neck Level 4." It
holds yellow/red fatty tissue in aggregate measuring 3.0 x 1.4 x
1.4 cm. Within the fatty tissue there are multiple firm
red/brown lymph node candidates ranging in greatest dimension
from 0.5 to 1.4 cm.

Block summary:

Q1 - two lymph node candidates
Q2 — two lymph node candidates
Tissue remains in the container.

Container R is additionally labeled "anterior mucosal margin,
left." It holds a 1.4 x 1.4 X 0.3 cm tan/pink soft tissue
fragment. (Block FSRl,

Container S is additionally labeled "anterior mucosal margin,
right." It holds a 1.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm tan/pink soft tissue
fragment. (Block FSSl,

Container T is additionally labeled "resection of mandible,
tongue, floor of mouth."

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: partial glossectomy, partial mandibulectomy
with left and right submandibular glands '

Size of specimen: Anterior to posterior, 7.6 cm; left to right,
8.3 cm; superior to inferior, 7.9 cm

Laterality: bilateral

Orientation of specimen: By anatomic landmarks with the
following inking scheme: inferior=black, posterior=blue, lateral
oral mucosa=green.

Tumor size: anterior to posterior, 5.9 cm; left to right, 4.1
cm; superior to inferior, 5.9 cm

Tumor description: tan with multiple white firm nodules
(diameter is less than 0.1 cm) with focus of necrosis (0.9 x 0.4
x 1.1 cm)

Location of tumor: floor of mouth extending into tongue

Extent of tumor: The tumor invades into the soft tissue of the
left neck.

Presence/absence of bone involvement: The anterior mandible is
involved by the tumor.

Distance of tumor to surgical margins: Tumor abuts the black
inked inferior margin, is 0.6 cm from the blue inked posterior
margin, and is 1.0 cm from the green inked mucosal margin on
the lateral aspect of the mandible

Description of remainder of tissue: brown, eXOphytic friable
mass is located on the tongue overlying the tumor (3.5 x 4.0
cm); there are eleven teeth in varying stages of decay

Lymph nodes: Left neck, Level #1: five lymph node candidates
identified ranging in greatest size from 0.8 to 2.8 cm. The
largest lymph node candidate (1:7 x 2.8 x 1.4 cm) was white and
firm.

Right neck, Level #1: multiple firm lymph node candidates
ranging in greatest diameter from 0.8 cm to 1.9 cm.

The largest lymph node candidate (2.5 x 1.7 x 2.1 cm)is white,
firm, with cystic degeneration.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes

Digital photograph taken: yes

Block summary:

T1 — right mucosal margin, en face
T2 — left mucosal margin, en face
T3 — left posterior mandible margin, en face (decal)

T4 - right posterior mandible margin, en face (decal)

T5,T6 — closest black inked margin

T7,T8 — closest blue inked margin

T9,T10 - closest to viable tongue coating

T11,T12 - representative sections of white tumor nodules within
tumor

T13-T15 — tumor invading bone (decal)

T16 — representative section of left submandibular gland

T17 - representative section of right submandibular gland
T18 — largest lymph node candidate from left neck, Level 1
T19 lymph node candidate, bisected, left neck, Level 1,
bisected

T20 - lymph node candidate, bisected, left neck, Level 1,
bisected

T21 - lymph node candidate, left neck Level 1, bisected

T22 - lymph node candidate, left neck Level 1, bisected

T23 bisected lymph node candidate from right neck, Level 1
T24 bisected lymph node candidate from right neck, Level 1
T25 — bisected and whole lymph node candidate (one inked blue)
from right neck, Level 1

T26 — largest lymph node candidate from right neck, Level 1

Addendum
For P16 IHC.

Addendum Comment

P16 is negative in tumor (T26) with appropriate positive control
slide.

 

 

