  

CGA—44—2656

 

SPECIMEN
A. Right upper lobe
B. 2R
C. 4R
D. Station 7
E. Station 9

CLINICAL NOTES
PREHOP DIAGNOSIS: Lung cancer.
POST—OP DIAGNOSIS: Same.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh labeled ”right upper lobe" is a 252
gm.,
19.5 x 13.0

X 3.5 cm. lobectomy specimen with attached 1
cm. in length, 1.? x 0.9

cm. in diameter bronchial stump. There

IS
a moderately Well circumscribed, 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. pale tan to
gray black tumor mass within the inferolateral aspect. The lesion
approaches the pleura. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal
are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. A possible
secondary lesion measuring 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. is present along the
pleural aspect of the lung, approximately 3.5 cm. from the primary
lesion (see block 7 and 8). The remaining parenchyma is spongiform
tan pink—red with diffuse anthracosis. No additional mass lesion

or
abnormalities identified. Five gray black tissues in keeping with
lymph nodes measuring up to 1.6 cm. in greatest dimension are
recovered from the hilum. Representative sections are submitted in
13 blocks as labeled. RS-13

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 H bronchial stump margin; 2 ~ vascular margins; 3
through 5 — tumor to inked pleural surfaCe; 6 — tumor to normal
parenchyma; 7 and 8 - secondary ? lesion; 9 through 11 — random

12 — four whole lymph nodes; 13 — one bisected lymph node.

normali

GROSS DESCRIPTION
8. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
"2R”, is a 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.7 om., yellow, lobular, fatty
tissue fragment, which is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS—l
C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
"4R", are multiple black—pink—red, irregular, soft tissue
fragments, 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimens are entirely
submitted
in one cassette. AS~1
D. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,
labeled
"Station 7", are three black—pink, irregular, soft to
friable tissue fragments, which range from 1.2 cm. to 2.2 cm. in

 

greatest dimension. The specimens are entirely submitted in one

cassette. ASul
E. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin,

labeled

"Station 9", is a 1.2 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm., black~pink,
irregular to soft tissue fragment, which is entirely submitted in
one cassette. AS—l

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

A.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

Primary tumor: Primary tumor measures 2.0 cm. but invades the
visceral pleura.

Margins of resection: Uninvolved.

Direct extension of tumor: Not identified.

Venous (large vessel) invasion: Identified.

Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Identified.

Lymphatic (small vessel} invasion: Not identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): None positive (pNO).

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot be evaluated by this specimen

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Other findings: There is an intraparenchymal lymph node containing

granulomatous inflammation in A9. Stains for AFB and fungal
organisms are negative. Additionally in blocks A7 and A8 (grossly
identified lesion) biopsy site changes are present. There are 9
lymph nodes and main specimen negative for tumor.

B. The 2R lymph nodes demonstrates 6 lymph nodes negative

for metastasis.

C. The 4R lymph nodes demonstrates 2 lymph nodes negative

for metastasis.

D. The station 7 lymph nodes demonstrates 3 lymph nodes

negative for metastasis. Granulomatous inflammation is
present. No organisms are detected on AFB or fungal stains.

E. The station 9 lymph nodes demonstrates l node negative

for metastasis.

4X2 3X3, 17x4

 

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lung, right upper lobe, resection:
~ Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, 2.0 cm. surgical
margins uninvolved.
— Nine lymph nodes with no evidence of metastasis.
B. 2R lymph nodes, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis the six lymph nodes (0/6).
C. 4R lymph nodes, resection:
— Two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastasis (0/2).
D. Station 7 lymph nodes, resection:
— No evidence of metastasis in three lymph nodes (0/3}.
— Granulomatous inflammation.
E. Station 9 lymph node, metastasis:
~ One lymph node with no evidence of metastasis (0/1).

DIAGNOSIS

 

 

