rave-<3

MMW U05
CW; ”020/3
Sample# 54134 01$wa 3 WA.

8 a; 7.0
Gender: Male 5 C 2 2!
DOB: /é5W 01:71
Race: White C>¢J S7/ 7

Report Date:
Pathology Report:

UUID:61i8DDD7D-6CZ7-4CA1-5352-891A9F7R83e9FEa
TCGA- FD- -A6TE- 91A A-P

llllIlllllllllllIllHllllIlllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IIIIIIIIIH IIIIIIIIIHI "III III" I”!
||||||||l||||||||||||||||||| Illllllliillllllllllll

Surgical Pathology Report

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS

A. Left distal ureter; excision:

- Ureter margin, free of tumor.

- Urothelial carcinoma in situ present at non-margin side.

B. Urinary bladder and prostate, cystoprostatecomty:

- Bladder with high grade urothelial carcinoma invading thru the muscularis
propria and into the perivesical fat, see pathologic parameters.

- Prostate with incidental prostatic adenocarcinoma, see pathologic
parameters

C. Left pelvic lymph node; dissection:

- One of nine lymph nodes, positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(1/9).

- Lymph nodal tumor measures 2.7 cm, with extranodal tumor extension.

D. Right pelvic lymph node; dissection:
- One of thirteen lymph nodes, positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma
(1/13).

E. Right common iliac lymph node; dissection:
- Five lymph nodes, no tumor (0/5)

F. Left common iliac lymph node; dissection:
- Seven lymph nodes, no tumor (0/7)

G. Pre sacral lymph nodes; dissection:
- Four lymph nodes, no tumor (0/4)

H. Meckel's; excision:
- Meckel diverticulum

I. Vas deferens, bilateral; excision:

- Bilateral vasa deferentia, no tumor

J. Right distal ureter; excision:
- Portion of ureter, no tumor

Urothelial Carcinoma Pathologic Parameters

1. Tumor type: Invasive conventional urothelial carcinoma.

2. Grade of tumor: High grade.

3. Depth of invasion: Extravesicular soft tissue (microscopic).

4. Tumor distribution: Solitary, left lateral wall and trigone, 3.0 cm.
5. Ureteral margins: Negative for tumor.

6. Distal urethral margin: Negative for tumor.

7. Soft tissue margin or serosa: Negative for tumor.

8. Lymph nodes: Positive for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (2/3 8).
9. pTNM: pT3a,N2,MX.

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for Bladder of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and the
International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Radical Prostatectomy Pathologic Parameters

l. Gleason Score: 3+3=6.

2. Perineural Invasion: Absent.

3. Tumor Location: Peripheral zone right and left.
4. Tumor Volume Estimate: <3%

5. High-grade P.I.N.: Multifocal.

6. Seminal Vesicles: Negative for tumor.

7. Extraprostatic extension: Absent.

8. Peripheral Margin: Negative for tumor.

9. Distal (apical) Margin: Negative for tumor.

10. Proximal (basilar) Margin: Negative for tumor
11. Regional Lymph Nodes (right and left): Negative for prostatic carcinoma
(0/ 3 8).

12. pTNM: pT2a,N0,MX.

Effective January 1, 2010 this Checklist utilizes the 7th edition TNM staging
system for prostatectomy of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJ CC) and
the International Union Against Cancer (UICC).

Interpretation performed by the Attending Pathologist and reviewed with the
Resident/Fellow, [L MD

Electronically Signed Out by [L MD

Clinical History:
Patient is a year-old male clinical history of bladder cancer who undergoes
cystoprostatectomy.

Specimens Received:

A: Left distal ureter

B: Bladder, prostate-stat for prostate urethral margin
C: Left pelvic lymph node

D: Right pelvic lymph node

B: Right common iliac lymph node
F: Left common iliac lymph node
G: Pre sacral lymph nodes

H: Mekel’s (sp)

1: Vas deferens, bilateral

J: Right distal ureter

Gross Description:
The specimens are received in ten containers each labeled with the patient's
name and medical record number.

A. The ﬁrst container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left distal

ureter-stitch on non-margin side". Received fresh for intraoperative
consultation is a 1.0 cm in length by 0.5 cm in external diameter rubbery,
tan-pink and tubular portion of ureter with attached adipose tissue measuring up
to 1 cm in thickness. The margin is inked blue and frozen and diagnosed as
"segment of ureter, no tumor present" per Dr. [] The frozen section

diagnosis is reported to by Dr. [] at on The

frozen section remnant is entirely submitted in cassette Al F S. The non-margin
aspect of the ureter submitted in cassette A2.

B. The second container is additionally identiﬁed as, "bladder, prostate-stat

for prostate urethral margin". Received fresh for intraoperative consultation

and placed in formalin is a 204 g (following-ﬁxation), 14 x 7.5 x 5.2 cm
cystoprostatectomy specimen consisting of a 6 x 5.5 x 5 cm bladder with attached
mesenteric fat and a 3.8 x 2.0 x 2.4 cm prostate. The right seminal vesicles
measures 2.1 x 1.7 x 0.7 cm and right vas deferens measures 2 x 0.6 cm. The

left seminal vesicles measures 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm and left vas deferens is not
present. The right ureteral stump measures 0.6 x 0.4 cm, the left measures 0.2
(length) x 0.4 cm, and both demonstrate intact, patent lumens.

The prostate urethral margin is frozen and diagnosed as "no tumor" per Dr.
[] The frozen section diagnoses reported to Dr. [] by Dr. [] at

The right half of the prostate and bladder is inked blue and the left half is

inked black. The bladder and prostate are opened anteriorly along the urethra.
The prostate is surrounded by a thin, intact membranous capsule and sectioning
demonstrates rubbery, pink-tan, peri-urethral modularity with no discrete masses
or induration.

The opened bladder reveals a 3 x 2.8 cm raised, ﬁrm, pink-tan lesion mass
located in left lateral wall. On cut section, the mass extends into but not

through the muscularis mucosa and is 1.7 cm from the deep margin. The
surrounding bladder mucosa is edematous, wrinkled and gray-tan with a uniform
1.1-1.2 cm wall thickness. Bilateral ureteral oriﬁces, adjacent to the

trigone, are identiﬁed and probe patent.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
B1: Distal prostatic urethral margin

B2: Right ureter resection margin

B3: Left ureter resection margin

B4: Prostate apex serially sectioned

B5-B12: Bladder mass/Ulceration

B l 3: Uninvolved bladder mucosa bladder dome
B14: Uninvolved bladder mucosa anterior wall
BIS: Uninvolved bladder mucosa posterior wall
B16: Uninvolved bladder mucosa leﬁ lateral wall
B l 7: Uninvolved bladder mucosa right lateral wall
Bl 8: Uninvolved bladder mucosa trigone

819: Left and right seminal vesicles

B20-24: Representative right and left lobes of prostate from apex to base

C. The third container is additionally identiﬁed as, "left pelvic lymph node".
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 7.1 x 5.3 cm aggregate of soft to
rubbery, yellow—tan and lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue which is dissected to
reveal 13 lymph node candidates measuring up to 2.7 cm in greatest dimension.
The lymph node candidates are submitted as follows:

C1: 7 lymph node candidates

C2: 3 lymph node candidates

C3: 1 lymph node candidate

C4: 1 lymph node candidate

C5-C7: l lymph node candidate sectioned

D. The fourth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right pelvic lymph

node". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 5.4 x 3.4 x 1.2 cm aggregate

of soft, yellow-tan and lobulated ﬁbroadipose tissue which is dissected to

reveal 7 lymph node candidates measuring up to 2.1 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

D1: 5 lymph node candidates

D2: 1 lymph node candidate bisected

D3: One lymph node candidate bisected
D4-D6: Fibroadipose tissue entirely submitted
D7: One lymph node candidate sectioned

E. The ﬁfth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right common iliac lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin are 5 rubbery, ovoid and gray-tan
tissue fragments ranging in size from 0.8 tol.7 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

El: One lymph node candidate,

E2: 3 lymph node candidates

E3: One lymph node candidate

F. The sixth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "leﬁ common iliac lymph
node". Received fresh and placed in formalin are 5 ﬁrm, gray-brown and
irregular tissue fragments ranging in size from 0.4-8.0 cm in greatest
dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

F1: Four lymph node candidates

F2-F4: 8 cm segment of ﬁbroadipose tissue, sectioned

G. The seventh container is additionally identiﬁed as, "presacral lymph

nodes". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a single 7.1 cm in length by

1.7 cm in diameter tubular segment of ﬁbroadipose tissue which is dissected to
reveal 5 lymph node candidates measuring up to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The
specimen is entirely submitted as follows:

Gl—GS: One lymph node candidate in each cassette

H. The eighth container is additionally identiﬁed as, ”Meckel's". Received

fresh and placed in formalin is a 2 cm in length by 1.1 cm in diameter tubular
portion of bowel with attached adipose tissue measuring up to 0.4 cm in
diameter. At one aspect of the specimen there is a patent tubular segment. The
specimen is trisected to reveal a cystic space ﬁlled with white—tan friable

tissue fragments and apparent bowel mucosa. The specimen is entirely submitted
in cassette H1.

1. The ninth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "vas deferens bilateral".
Received fresh and placed in formalin are two unoriented and undesignated
segments of vas deferens which measure 3.4 x 0.3 (arbitrarily designated A) and
4.1 x 0.2 cm arbitrarily designated B). Vas deferens A is inked blue and vas

deferens B is inked black and they are representatively submitted in cassette
II.

J. The tenth container is additionally identiﬁed as, "right distal ureter,
stitch on margin side". Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 3.1 cm in
length by 0.4 cm in diameter segment of ureter with attached adipose tissue

measuring up to 0.3 cm in thickness. The specimen is oriented with a stitch at
the non-margin aspect. The non-margin aspect is inked blue, the margin aspect is
inked black. The non-margin aspect, the margin aspect and a representative
central portion are submitted in cassette J l.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A1 FS (ureter): Segment of ureter no tumor present

    
 

119M
’msr

 
 
    
 

33): is
ievmwer

 

