PECIMEN
A. Right ovary and fallopian tube
B. Left ovary and tube
C. Sigmoid colon upper rectum

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Rectal carcinoma.
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
fallopian tube: Benign, mature cystic teratoma.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section
labeled "A. Right ovary and tube". It consists of a 470
gm., 13.0 x 12.0 x 7.0 cm. ovary with a very distorted fallopian
tube measuring approximately 5 cm. in length and 0.2 cm. in
diameter
with excessive adhesions. The ovarian surface has extensive
adhesions but is otherwise tan to white without gross papillations.
The specimen is sectioned to reveal a unilocular 0.2 cm. thick cyst
filled with grumous tan to white material. There is some old
calcification and some dark brown hair is present in the wall
suggestive of a teratomatous cyst. Representative sections are
froze as frozen sections AFS1 and AFS2. Additional sections are

submitted for permanent sections with fallopian tube k 1 and
sections of the ovarian cyst in 2 through 9. RS8.
B. Received fresh subsequently fixed in fo abeled

"left tube and ovary" is a 5 x 4.7 x 3.3 cm cystic ovary
with an attached fimbriated fallopian tube. The specimen is opened
and partially filled with clear fluid. The lining is smooth,
glistening and shows no papillary excrescences present.
Representative sect s specimen are submitted in five

cassettes . RS—5 . ’13-;-
C. Recei , ubsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"sigmoid colon upper rectum". The specimen consist of a

24

cm. long portion of colon. The specimen is opened at both ends,

proximal end is inked blue, distal end is inked black. The
specimen

is partially covered with pink tan smooth glistening serosa with

abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened to show pink

tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds. The

proximal circumference is 4.5 cm. and distal circumference is 10
cm.

Retroperitoneal reflection is located 3.5 cm. from the distal end.

There is an exophytic tumor measuring 2.2 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm. located 3

cm. from the distal margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows no

discrete invasion into the muscularis propria. No other discrete
gross lesions are identified. Lymph nodes are grossly identified

in
the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as
follows: block 1 — representative luminal margins; block 2—5 —
entire tumor to normal and fat; block 5 — representa

margin; block 7—12 — possible lymph nodes. RS—12.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Microscopic examination reveals an ovary with a benign
mature cystic teratoma/dermoid cyst. No metastatic
carcinoma is identified. The fallopian tube has a small serous
paratubal cyst which is benign.
B. Microscopic examination of the left ovary and
fallopian
tube reveals a benign serous cystadenoma prominent
tubo—ovarian adhesions and a benign fallopian tube with serous
paratubal cyst.
C. Microscopic examination of the sigmoid colon and upper
rectum resection reveals:
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.
Primary tumor (pT): Tumor invades into muscularis propria in
slides
C3 and 4. No invasion beyond muscularis propria is
identified
(pT2).
Proximal margin: Negative for tumor.
Distal margin: Negative for tumor.
Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative for tumor.
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 3 cm from distal margin.
Vascular invasion: Not identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): Regional lymph nodes are all negative
for
metastatic tumor. (0/24) (pN0).
Non—lymph node pericolonic tumor: None identified.
Distant metastasis (pM): None identified (pMX).

Other findings: None.
4x2,14x1,15x1,5x1,3260F
DIAGNOSIS

A. Right ovary and fallopian tube, excision:
Mature cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst).

Fallopian tube with benign serous paratubal cyst.

B. Left ovary and fallopian tube, excision:
Benign serous cystadenoma.
Tubo—ovarian adhesions.
Benign serous paratubal cyst.

C. Sigmoid colon and upper rectum, resection:
Invasive moderately—differentiated adenocarcinoma, invasive
into
muscularis propria (pT2).
All resection margins are negative for tumor.
Twenty—four lymph nodes are negative for tumor (pN0).
See microscopic description.

 

——— End Of Report ———

