  

TCGA-66—2754

Examination report

Macroscogic ﬁndings:

1. (a—g) Right superior pulmonary lobe: l‘esected lobe tissue weighing 300g and measuring I60 X 150 x 35 mm,
with signiﬁcant mesh—like anthracosis and saggy and limp pulmonary tissue with sclerosis of the ﬂame and
marginal, accentuated bullous hyperinﬂation. In the subpleural area of S 2 there is grayish—white, dense tumor
inﬁltration with anthracotic pigment, measuring 45mm, well demarcated, with omphaloid pleural retraction and
unremarkable segmental bronchi B l ? 3 without tumor damage. At the hilum there is lump of conﬂuent lymph
node metastases, measuring approx. 50mm, and growing exophytically, with a grayish-white, brittle and
necrotic surface and anthracotic pigment throughout, mucous membrane extending from B 3 to the central
sections is unremarkable. Apart from this, no further remarkable focal ﬁndings on laminated sections.

2. L 11: No visible biopsy material.

3. L 10: No visible biopsy material.

4. L 7: Bipartite, blackish, pigmented lymph node tissue, measuring 13 mm together.
5. (a-b) L 4: Segmented lymph-adipose tissue, measuring 30 mm together.

6. (a—c) L 3: Segmented lymph-adipose tissue, measuring 40 mm together, with suspected tumorous, inﬂamed,
indurated nodes and anthracosis. Complete embedmcnt.

Microscopic ﬁndings:

1. (HE, b, c and g: EvG) The bronchial resection margin in the instantaneous section and the subsequent
parafﬁn embedment are completely tumor—free as is the adjacent, partially hemorrhagic, adipose connective
tissue. The described tumor, composed of immature, partly fusocellulari sarcomatoid, and partly small and
solidly grouped cell structures, with a signiﬁcantly misaligned nucleoplasrnic ratio, frequent mitosis, coarsening
of the chromatin and elucidation of the core with partly prominent nucleoli and a narrow cytOplasmic border.
No keratinizing growth. Necrosis included. Concomitant stroma desmoplasia. The adjacent tumorous visceral
pleura has perifocal, slight ﬁbrous thickening and is retracted. The elastic basal membrane is focally penetrated
by the tumor. In the centre of the tumor there is individual, obliterative, vascular tumorous thrombi. B 3 is
surrounded by the tumor and focally inﬁltrated up to the intact mucous membrane. Signiﬁcant hilar necrosis,
including lymph node metastasis conglomeration with sparse, localized lymphatic tissue containing anthracotic
pigment. In 81 there is sclerosis and rarefaction of the lung frame with subpleural, bullous hyperinﬂation and
bronchial ectasia.

2. (HE) No tissue material.
3. (HE) As 2.
4. (HE) Tumor-free lymph node tissue with signiﬁcant anthracosis and sinus histiocytosis.

5. (HE) Further lymph node fragments with anthracotic pigment. In between, metastasis of the carcinoma
described above.

6. (HE) Extensive further metastatic tissue with necrotic decay and only very sparse, localized, lymphatic tissue
in between.

 

Diagnosis: Resected right superior pulmonary lobe with a 45 mm, necrotic, badly differentiated and non-
keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma with pleural inﬁltration, hemangioinvasion, hilar conﬂuent lymph node
metastasis conglomerates and tumor—free, bronchial resection margin. Tumor~free pulmonary tissue with
signiﬁcant anthracosis, structural sclerosis and accentuated subplural, emphysematous structure.

2. and 3. No tissue material
4. Tumor—free lymph node tissue from L '7 indicated.

5. and 6. Metastatic lymph nodes at the sections indicated - L 4 and L 3.

Assessment:

On account of the histological form of a squamous cell carcinoma, it is hard to establish deﬁnitely whether this
is metastasis of a clinicallydndicated squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus or a primary pulmonary
squamous cell carcinoma. In the case of the latter assumption the tumor stage would be as follows M18070/3, G
3, PT 2, PV 1, PN 2, PMX, stage III A.

