 

 

 

- UUID:552E150F -SB34-482A-84E7-173939AC0957
TCGA-AC-A3N6-91A- PR

3733.“; .__. W A“ Ill|||||l||||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII‘IIPI

MRN #:
Ref PhYsumcll

 

 

 
   
 
 

Collected:

Received:

Reported: :, ' ' "‘ _ _
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
Right modiﬁed radical mastectomy with sentinel node mapping:
Invasive Iobular carcinoma.
Lobular carcinoma was previously confirmed by negative e cadherin expression.
Size: 5.3 cm.
Architectural score: 3 of 3.
Nuclear score: 2 of 3.
Mitotic score: 1 of 3.
Total score: 6 of 9 = grade 2.
Carcinoma involves sections of the nipple but does not involve the overlying epidermis and is not seen in dermal lymphatics
Prognostic panel was performed on the previous biopsy and will not be repeated unless requested.
Carcinoma does not involve inked deep margin of excision.
Right sentinel lymph nodes:

Three lymph nodes. metastatic carcinoma in three of three nodes. ’ 0D ,0/ 3

Size of involvement within the node: 1 cm. ‘ (ﬁg HfOCh
Extracepsular extension of carcinoma present. 3 b“ r t

Conﬁrmed by staining with pancytokaratin. Ca m! n m I O a I n6

aback:

TNM:T3N1MX. _
Sl-lc.‘ bagel , N03
- Electronic inatIlre' C50’q
' “g ' 94le
(0
CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Right modiﬁed radical mastectomy with sentinel node mapping with frozen section. Invasive mammary carcinoma, ER positive.
PR positive.

Postoperative Diagnosis:

Symptoms/Radiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
Right breast, tie marks sentinel node

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

The specimen is received in a single formalin-ﬁlled container labeled with the patients name ‘right breast, tie marks sentinel node' and
consists of a 281.8 gram, 20.0 x 11.5 x 3.8 cm mastectomy specimen partially surfaced by a 15.8 x 7.: cm ellipse of pink-tan wrinkled skin bearing an
eccentric 0.9 x 0.8 cm inverted nipple. A suture is present at the lateral edge and denotes the sentinel lymph node. A discrete axillary tail is not identiﬁed.
The deep margin is inked and the specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a 5.3 x 3.5 x 3.3 cm ill-deﬁned gray-white mass originating centrally subjaoent
to the nipple and abutting the skin surface at the nipple. This mass approaches to within 0.7 cm of the inked deep margin. The uninvolved tissue is
comprised of yellow—tan adipose tissue admixed with minimal amounts of interspersed gray-while ﬁbrous tissue. Focal areas of nodularity are present at
the medial and lateral borders, however, discrete invasive mass is not identiﬁed. The closest of these nodules approaches to within 1.5 cm of the inked
margin.

Adjacent to the aforementioned suture, denotes a 2.0 cm well delineated nodule consistent with lymph node. Within the adjacent ﬁbroadipose tissue are
two additional firm fatty nodules consistent with lymph node, 0.5 and 1.5 an in greatest dimension.

Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 1 through 12 labeled designated as follows: 1 and 2. mass to include nipple and
adjacent skin; 3 and 4, mass to inked deep margin, perpendicular; 5 and 6, additional mass; 7, upper outer quadrant: a, lower outer quadrant: 9, upper
inner quadrant; 10, lower inner quadrant; 11, one whole possible sentinel lymph node, bisected; 12, two additional lymph nodes (one inked and
bisected). Additionally, a yellow, green and blue cassette are submitted for genomia research each labeled

 

 

 
 
   
 
    

Tumor Site

  

“PM
rior

 

