 

/ c A « ﬂ ' 3
Operative Procedure: , {Wk—Q. A); 5 3/3 a / 5
Radical cystectomy 22%, W710 M M14491. C 4,7,3
iiegﬂtiiiiéifgif‘ips, ,w W"
B: Distal right ureter (FS) .
C: Bladder and uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries
D: Tissue near uterus
E: Right pelvic lymph nodes ”UIDréc7eaz49-5A7a
F: Left pelvic lymph nodes TCGA-GD-Asoifsgcfgfi‘s‘uml746Fc33

lllllllllllllilillllillillllllllllllllllll ““3““

Final Patholo ic Dia nosis: llllllllllllllllllllllllll W ”Im'mmmm
A. Distal left Lister mgargin, excision for frozen section A: I” ”mmm'lmmnIIgm;{I‘Igﬁlll'II/I/ﬁllmllllglll'll'lll'g

Negative for tumor.
Frozen section diagnosis is conﬁrmed.

B. Distalright ureter margin, excision for frozen section B:
Negative for tumor.

Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed.

C. Urinary bladder. anterior exenteration:

Tumor histologic type: Urothelial carcinoma
Variant histology (%): Micropapillary carcinoma (90%) and
ttan§itl9nal celicarcinoma (5%.)
Tumor size: 7.5 cm (greatest dimension)
Additional dimensions: 6.5 x 4 cm
Grade (WHO .): High
Tumor conﬁguration: Lnyasjve

Associated epithelial lesions: None identified in sections examined
Microscopic tumor extension: Through the urinary bladder into the uterus
Lymph-vascular invasion: Present

Margins
Urethral: Negative
Ureteral: Negative
Paravesical soft tissue: Focally positive
Other (specify): N/A

Additional pathologic ﬁndings: None
Paravesical lymph nodes: None identiﬁed
All lymph nodes: Metastatic carcinoma in situ present in four

lymph nodes (total number of pelvic lymph nodes = 5)
Size of largest lymph node metastasis: 1.5 cm

 

 

 

Part A is received fresh for frozen section evaluation additionally labeled

"distal left ureter (FSA+X)" and consists of a segment of apparent ureter,

having a length of 0.8 cm and a diameter that averages 0.6 cm. There is a suture
at one pole and the opposing pole is shaved and submitted for frozen section
evaluation (FSA) with residual frozen section tissue submitted in cassette A1

and remaining tissue is submitted entirely in cassette A2.

Part B is received fresh for frozen section evaluation additionally labeled

"distal right ureter (FSB+X)" and consists of a segment of apparent ureter,
having a length of 0.8 cm and an average diameter of 0.5 cm. There is a suture
at one pole and the opposing pole is shaved and submitted for frozen section
evaluation (FSB) with residual frozen section tissue submitted in cassette B1
and remaining tissue submitted entirely in cassette 82.

Part C is received in formalin additionally labeled "bladder and uterus, tubes,
cervix and ovaries." This composite specimen has aggregate dimensions of 10.5 x
9 x 9 cm and consists of bladder with attached urethra, segment of bilateral
ureters, uterine corpus with attached cervix and "vaginal patch," as well as
bilateral adnexa and a moderate amount of perivesical fat. The specimen
previously had its anterior aSpect over inked in blue and the bladder has been
opened for procurement of tissues. The posterior aspect is subsequently inked
black. The bladder has dimensions of 4 x 4 x 4 cm to include an additional 1.5
cm in length of urethra. The‘uterine corpus is 3 cm in length by 3.8 x 2 cm with
an additional attached 2.3 cm in length of cervix, which averages 2 cm in
diameter. The "vaginal patch" has a length of 3.5 cm with additional width of 3
cm, 0.3 cm in thickness. The right ovary has dimensions of 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm
with an overlying ﬁmbriated fallopian tube, which is 5 cm in length and
averages 0.8 cm in diameter. The left ovary is 2.5 x 2 x 1.1 cm with an
overlying ﬁmbriated fallopian tube, which is 5 cm in length and averages 0.6 cm
in diameter. The surface of the uterine corpus is remarkable for an area of
roughening, arising within the right cornu fundic aspect, which may represent
site of removal of tissues (see part D). Upon further bisecting the specimen,
the bladder is remarkable for diffuse thickening of the bladder wall,

particularly notable on the posterior aspect with ulcerated urothelium
particularly notable on the fundic aspect posterior wall with confluent
extension involving the anterior aspect. This mass has extensive involvement of
multiple structures with overall estimated dimensions of 7.5 x 6.5 cm with
invasion into the uterine corpus/cervix for a depth of 4 cm and into the

anterior superior aspect of the bladder for a depth of 2.5 cm (see also gross
photos). This mass approaches to within 2.5 cm of the urethral margin of
surgical resection. Both the left and right ureters are grossly probe patent

with an average length of 6 cm, each which open into a markedly edematous
trigone. This tumor abuts the perivesical fat adjacent to the left

adnexa/uterine corpus. Additionally this tumor doves approach the
s'uperior/bb‘éiéridr"a§pect of the bladder adjacent to the "bladder flap" site

(see cassette C11). There is no gross evidence of tumor involvement of the
surface of the vaginal patch or into the adnexal structures.

Sections are submitted as follows:

sates—9...... uthuWoﬂt/vi—ﬁ v' wt. ”Baa/um;-

 

 

These lymph node candidates are submitted as follows:
F1-2 one whole lymph node bisected, one half in each cassette;
F3-4 one whole lymph node quadrisected, one half in each cassette.

Microscopic Description: ,

The ﬁnal diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
ﬁndings.

END OF REPORT

Taken: ' DOB: ‘ (Age: Gender:

