 

NAME: nae: Accra: -
DOB: PT CLASS:

sex CLINIC cone:

AGE: ADMIT DATE: —

ROOM a: DISC-H DATE: -

 

SURGERY case #t —

 

ATTENDING PHY$lClAhi:
ADMITTlNG PHYSIClAN:

eueeeav onaea: _ FlNAL

 

DATE OF SURGERY: -
SURGEON: _
SPECIMEN; A Right lower and middle lobe. lung
B. Right interlobar node
0 Right hiler
D Lower paratracheel right
- SECTION DX: Vascular and bronchial margins are benign. Parenchymal margin is 2.5
cm from the tumor grosety.
OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Thoracotomy with lobectomy

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lung mass
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Right lung mass

*ﬁi-ki’i-‘kﬁmﬂirn lAGNOSISt*h¥*£de¢-ﬁ*

A. Right lower and middte lobe. lobeotorny:
Well -differentiated adenocarcinoma 6 0 cm in greatest dimension.
Adenocarcinoma focally involves pleural surface.
Lymphovaecular inVaeion or perineural Invasion not identified
Bronchial and vaaouiar reeeotion margins negative for malignancy.
Six peribronchialihilar lymph nodes, negative for metastatic malignancy (016).
Non-neoplastic lung with congestion and mild chronic inflammation.

133

Right lnterlobe node:
Three lymph nodes, negative for metastatic malignancy (013):

C. Right hilar lymph node:
One lymph node. negative for metastatic malignancy {011).

D. Lower paratracheal right lymph node:
Three lymph nodes. negative for metastatic malignancy (0.3).

Pathologic staging: pTZa. pNO, pMX.
Surgical Pathology Consultation
Page '1 of3

 

 

irIIcnoscoPIc EXAMINATION:

A,B,O,D: A microscopic examination was performed to render the above diagnosis. -

 

GROSS:

A.

Specimen received fresh for fromn section diagnosis iabeied "right lower and middle lobe" and consists
of right tower and middle tobe weighing 234 grams and measuring 18 x 16 x 4.5 cm. The bronchial
remnant measures 1.5 cm in length and 2.0 cm in diameter. The bronchial and vascular margins are
submitted for frozen section diagnosis iabeied F81. Adjacent to the bronchiai resection margin is a 6
cm in length pieural area closed by a staple line. The bronchial tree is traced and no endobrohchial
lesions are noted. Located 2.8 cm from the bronchial resection margin is a 8 X 4 cm gray, soiid,
circumscribed tumor mass. The pleura at the level of tumor mass reveals a grey, pocketed surface and
it's marked with biue ink. Grossly the tumor extends up to the inked pleural surface. The tumor mass
is located 2.5 cm from the stapled resection margin. Sectioning through the rest of the lung
parenchyma reveals a brown-tan, slightiy congested surface. No additional lesions are noted. Multipie

perlbronchial lymph nodes are identified. R310.

Cassettes:

1. Frozen section bronchial resection margin.

2-5. Tumor mass with btue inked pleural surface.

6-7. Tumor mass with bronchial tree.

8. Tumor mass with adjacent iung tissue.

9. Lung tissue closer to the stapled area.

it). Hilar tymph nodes.

B. Labeled "right interlobar node" is a cluster of iymph nodes measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. T81.

C. Labeled “right hilar” is a gray-black anthracotic lymph node measuring 1 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm. Bisectecl T31.
D.

Labeled "lower paratracheai right" are three gray-brown possible: m h node like structure tissue which
are covered by ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. T31.“

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation
Page 2 of 3

 

 

   

 

