Received Date/Time

   

   
 
 

Reporting Information Date/Time : Final Updated
Histopatholo '
Laboratory : ‘
DIAGNOSIS

(AFS) 'Left submandibular mass':

Poorly preserved tumour involving fibrofatty
connective tissue. The immunomorphologic features
are consistent with diffuse large B—cell lymphoma.

(B) Left submandibular gland:

(i) Involvement of fibrofatty connective tissue
and lymph node by diffuse large B—cell lymphoma.
(ii) Mild chronic sialadenitis; no malignancy
seen. ‘

(iii) Fragment of normal thymus.

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

(AFS) Left submandibular gland:
Gland is infiltrated by undifferentiated tumour.

uer l homa? to be defined.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

(AFS) Received fresh is a tissue mass measuring 3 x 2.5 x 1cm which is serially
cut into 4 pieces, two of which are snap-frozen for storage and the remainder
fixed in formalin for histological sampling. (AlFS; no reserve)

(B) Received in formalin is a specimen labelled with patient's data and
designated "left submandibular gland". It consists of a submandibular gland and
3 additional irregular pieces of tissue. The submandibular gland measures 4.8 x
3.4 x 2cm. The 3 pieces of tissue measure 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.50m, 2 x l x 0.5cm and 1
x 1.5 x 0.7cm respectively. The external surface of the submandibular gland is
inked orange. Cut sections of the submandibular gland show normal appearance. No
solid nodules are visible grossly. Some whitish nodular ill—defined areas are

present in the smaller pieces.

(Bl to BWns of the salivary gland, BS & BG—remaining 3
pieces)

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

(AFS) Paraffin section of the frozen section specimen confirms fibrofatty
connective tissue infiltrated by malignant tumour. Unfortunately in most areas,
there is suboptimal preservation and many cells also show individual necrosis.
There are numerous degenerate cells with presence of scattered pyknotic nuclear
debris and interspersed macrophages. There is also diathermy and traumatic crush

artefact.
In areas where cells are better preserved, they appear to form sheets, and have

enlarged pleomorphic vesicular nuclei, many containing prominent central
nucleoli. No gland formation is seen.

(B) Submandibular gland examined shows patchy mild chronic inflammation only.
The separately received smaller specimens comprise fibrofatty connective tissue
and residual lymph node infiltrated by sheets of tumour cells of similar
appearance to that described for -.

Immunostains demonstrate lesional cells to be positive with CD10, bcl—6, MUM-1
and CD20. Cyclin D1, TdT, bch, AE1/3 and 8100 are negative. CD3 highlights

interspersed small T—lymphocytes. MIEImis positive in approkimatelyn§ﬁgmof the
tumour population. No dendritic meshworks are identified.

Also represented is separate normal thymic tissue.

Patholoiist :

(For your attention)

 

