 

" tleferring Physician: -

L I UUID:A3902FF5-830C-4239-BE35-F9832C38MF
DOB: ' Age Gender TCGA- FY-A4ON-01A- D

 

PR Redacted
e . as . mi er m . lHlllHllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
R m“ H p“ P d G 9‘ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllHllllIll
Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatiem Ill llll II I ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Ill
Room: Bed: Date Reported:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis:

A. - D.) THYROID, MEDIASTlNAL LYMPH NODES, PARTIAL THYROlDECTOMY FOLLOWED
BY TOTAL THYROIDECTOMY AND LYMPH NODE DlSSEC'llON:
— Papillary thyroid carcinoma.
- Multifocal, 0.9 and 0.5 cm in greatest dimension.
- Limited to thyroid.

Surgical margins negative 'CW’B H ’
" u a a Ar
- Three lymph nodes, no tumor seen (013). C0.“ { “0 ma 1 P1 P' ’
Po l l icwiar Vox I ant-
?ch oiz
3 ")9 ro'cl NOS
PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS (THYROID): 44"“ ' ’ C73. 5)
Type and Grade: Papillary thyroid carcinoma. .1 '3‘;
Primary tumor: pT1a. rib

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.

Distant metastasis: NIA.

Pathologic stage: I.

Lymphovascular invasion: Not identiﬁed.
Margin status: R0. negative.

Tumor Staging Information
Data derived t'W‘rn current specimen. Staging in accordance with or modiﬁed from AJCC Cancer Staging
Handbook, .‘d, and CAP protocol,

 

Case #: '\ Page 1

Printed: This report continues. .. (FiNAL)
Phone:

” " Patient Ni
Pathology Report — Page 1/4

 

 

 

Case it:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Signed by

 

Source of Specimen:

A. Thyroid isthmus

8. Right lobe of thyroid

C. Left lobe of thyroid

D. Mediastinal central nodes

Clinical HistOEy/Operative Dx:

Thyroid mass

lntraoperative Diagnosis:

A. TP/FSA: Thyroid isthmus: Positive for papillary carcinoma. (Dr.
The intraoperative interpretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at

Gross Description:

A. The specimen is labeled thyroid isthmus and is received without ﬁxative. it consists of a 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.9
cm rounded red ﬁrm nodule. The external surface is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned and
touch imprints are obtained. Representative tissue is submitted for frozen section. Representative tissue is
obtained for research purposes. The tissue remaining from frozen section is submitted for permanent
section in A1. The remaining tissue is submitted in cassette A2. i

B. The specimen is labeled right lobe of thyroid and is received in formalin. it consists of an ovoid
fragment of ﬁrm red tissue which weighs 3 grams. it measures 3 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm. Orientation is not obvious
and the extemal surface is inked black. There are no grossly identifiable parathyroid glands. The
specimen is serially sectioned and sequentially and entirely submitted in cassettes 81—84. l

C. The specimen is labeled left lobe of thyroid and is received in formalin. it consists of a thyroid lobe
which weighs 5 grams and measures 3.5 cm from superior to inferior, 2.4 cm from medial to lateral, and
0.9 cm from anterior to posterior. There are no grossly obvious parathyroid glands. The anterior surface is
inked green and the posterior surface is inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned and sequentially
and entirely submitted from superior to inferior in cassettes Cl—Cs. ’

D. The specimen is labeled mediastinal central nodes and is received in formalin. it consists of three
fragments of pale yellow-tan tissue. with the largest fragment measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm and two smaller
fragments each 0.5 cm in maximum dimension. The larger specimen is inked. The specimen is trisected
and combined with the remaining two fragments in cassette Di. i

Microscopic Description:

A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reflected in the diagnosis

rendered.
Case it. 9 . Page 3
Printed: A This report continues... (FINAL)

Acct No. - Patient Na:
Pathology Report - Page 314

