 

. _ Referrin Ph sician: UUID: cmss‘a- 2595- 4549- sec4- 57ce4c4Assse3d
Patient. 9 y TCGA- Ac- A2 Q-H 21A- PR

IllIIIHIIIlllllIIllIllllllllllllllllllllll IIIII
IIII lllllll |||I IIIIRllelIIIIIIIIed

 

ll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
IIIlIlllllIllIlIIlIlIlIHIlIllllllllllllllllllllllIlIIIIIIII

 

DOB:

Refit: Patient Location:

Date of Service: Date Received: Outpatient Case #:

" Room: 36¢ ' Date Reported: ‘

 

A copy of this report will be faxed to: 7 “‘

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REF

  

Diagnosis:

A. LEFT BREAST, TOTAL MASTECTOMY (PROPHYLACTIC):

- Multiple intraductal papillomas with atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH).
- Radial scar, 8 mm in diameter.

- Fibrosis, cysts, apocrine metaplasia, and sclerosing adenosis.
- Skin with seborrheic keratosis.

- No invasive carcinoma is identiﬁed.

- Unremarkable Intramammary lymph node.

\

’ 7%15‘

B. & C) RIGHT BREAST AND AXILLARY LYMPH NODES, MODIFIED RADICAL
MASTECTOMY:

- Invasive high-grade sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma, with areas of
matrix-producing carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor measures 95 mm in diameter.
- Lymphatic invasion is identiﬁed near the periphery of the tumor.
- Resection margins are widely free of invasive carcinoma.

- Invasive carcinoma is present 40 mm from the closest margin (inferior),
and is at least 50 mm from all other margins.

- Twenty-two axillary lymph nodes, no tumor present.

a» 0— W/

I

saw mg
g saﬂ'oW/W WW7

5'0}?

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (Invasive): High-grade sarcomatoid carcinoma, with areas of

matrix-producing carcinoma (subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma).
Primary tumor: pT3.

Regional lymph nodes: pNO.
Distant metastasis: pMX.
Pathologic stage: IIB.

Lymphovascular invasion: Identiﬁed near periphery of tumor.
Margin status: Negative (R0).

(7
W
{ /SlJ f

H

Case #: f

Page 1
Printed:

This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

COMMENT: The majority of the invasive carcinoma is characterized by solid sheets of
high-grade malignant cells. In some areas, tumor cells have prominent spindle cell
morphology, whereas in other areas, the malignant cells retain vaguely epithelioid
(rounded) shapes, but have highly anaplastic nuclear features. Prominent tumor-
assoclated necrosis is present, and no discernable glandular differentiation is evident.
The morphologic appearance of these areas is compatible with designation as
sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma. Other areas of tumor contain malignant cells
present in close proximity to blue-gray chondromyxoid or hyallne matrix, compatible
with at least focal matrix-producing carcinoma, another subtype of metaplastic breast
carcinoma.

Immunohistochemical staining shows some scattered tumor cells to be positive for

p63 and CK5I6, in support of designation as metaplastic carcinoma. This Is in
accordance with IHC staining performed on the previous biopsy ‘ In addition,
some tumor cells are positive for smooth muscle actin, a feature not uncommon in
metaplastic sarcomatoid carcinoma, representing immunohistochemical evidence of
differentiation towards a myoepithelial phenotype. Staining for and S100
are negative in tumor cells.

Focally, the invasive carcinoma is seen in association with a fibroepithelial neoplasm, a
portion of which appears to be necrotic. The stroma of the fibroepithelial neoplasm
does not show striking hyperceliularity, except for a few areas in which there is
granulation tissue. The lack of stromal cellularity within this lesion argues that the
ﬁbroepithelial neoplasm is best regarded as ﬂbroadenoma, even though the lesion has
some architectural features of phyllodes tumor. In some areas, high-grade malignant
cells are seen to line the ducts/clefts of the ﬁbroadenoma, suggesting that the
carcinoma is invading into the fibroadenoma. Another possibility is that the carcinoma
has arisen out of the epithelial component of the ﬁbroadenoma, which is considered
less likely.

Sarcomatoid carcinomas are highly malignant tumors with capability to metastasize to
distant sites (hematogenous metastasis to sites such as liver, lung, brain, etc.), even
though some studies have shown that metastasis to axillary lymph nodes are
signiﬁcantly less frequent than in more typical cases of breast carcinoma (i.e. invasive
Case #: ' Page 2

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

 

 

Patient:

 

 

~-vvvv

Case #'

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

ductal carcinoma, NOS). Dr. . i Dr. have reviewed

representative slides from this case, and concur with the diagnosis of metaplastic
breast carcinoma.

Case #: Pathology Consultation Report Page 3

Printed: Phone: This report continues... (FINAL)

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case #:

 

WWW

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook. 7th Ed., and CAP protoco
Previous biopsy:

Breast proﬁle. .. ., _

Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:

Lymph node sampling:

Specimen integrity:

Specimen iateraiity:

Specimen size (other than mastectomy):

|NVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
invasive tumor size:
invasive tumor site:
invasive tumor locality:
Histologlc type:

Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pieomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:
Mitotic count:
Other Grading System:
Lymphatic invasion:

MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:

lN-SITU CARCINOMA (DCIS) FEATURES:

I, Oct 2009). This staging also incorporates:

Total breast, axillary lymph nodes, and
contralateral breast.

Modified radical mastectomy and contralateral
prophylactic mastectomy.

Axillary dissection.
Single intact specimen.
Right.

26 x 16 x 6.5 cm.

95 mm.
Upper outer quadrant.
Single focus of invasive carcinoma.

Sarcomatoid (metaplastic) carcinoma, with areas
of matrix producing carcinoma.

3 (high-grade).

3 of 3.

3 of 3.

3 of 3.

Greater than 20 mitosis per 10 high power ﬁelds.
N/A.

Not identiﬁed.

40 mm.
inferior.

Invasive and in situ carcinoma are present at
least 50 mm from all other margins.

DCIS not present

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

LOBULAR CARCINOMA lN-SITU (LCIS):

Skin:
Nipple:
Skeletal Muscle:

INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (pT):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):

RECEPTOR STATUS AND HERZ/NEU:

Absent.

Unremarkable.
Unremarkable.
Not present

pT3.
pNO.
pMX.

ProPath. CM’l1-1333

Estrogen receptors: Negative (0% positive cells).
Progesterone receptors: Negative (0% positive cells).
Her2/neu: Not overexpressed (lHC score 0).
Ki-67 proliferative index: 50% positive cells.

Signed by

 

Source of Specimen:

A. Left Breast total mastectomy
B. Right Breast total mastectomy
C. Additional Axillary Contents

Clinical History/Operative Dx:

Cancer, female breast, upper-outer

Gross Descrigtion:

A. The specimen is labeled left simple mastectomy and is received in formalin. it consists of a
mastectomy specimen which weighs 1430 grams. A white suture at one end of the skin ellipse designates
the lateral portion of the excision. With this orientation the specimen measures 26 cm from medial to
lateral, 17.5 cm from superior to inferior, and is up to 6 cm from superﬁcial to deep. There is an overlying
broad ellipse of tan-white skin which measures 26 x 15 cm. in the central slightly medial portion of the
skin there is a 4 cm areola with a protuberant 1.2 cm nipple. The medial-inferior skin displays a 0.7 cm
plaque-like brown skin lesion. No other skin lesions are present. The anterior-superior margin is inked blue,
the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists of predominantly
smooth fascial tissue. is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal coarsely
lobulated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white fibrous parenchyma. The ﬁbrous parenchyma contains
multiple punctate areas of fine nodularity throughout the breast with scattered blue-dome cysts. There are
no areas which have a steliate or retracted appearance. There are no lymph nodes identified in the

Case #: Page 5

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

 

 

Patient:

 

 

F
i- J

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

axillary portion of the tissue. Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:
A1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

A2) inferior skin lesion,

A3) representative breast tissue upper-inner quadrant,

A4) representative breast tissue lower-inner quadrant,

A5) representative breast tissue upper-outer quadrant,

A6) representative breast tissue lower-outer quadrant,

A7) representative tissue central breast including representative deep margin ’

Following review of the initial slides, additional representative sections from the central portion of the
breast tissue are submitted from medial to lateral in cassettes A8-A12. A lymph node and random sections
of breast tissue are submitted in cassette A13.

B. The specimen is labeled right modiﬁed radical mastectomy and is received without fixative. it consists
of a mastectomy specimen which weighs 1681 grams. A suture marks the axillary tissue. With this
orientation the breast measures 26 cm from medial to lateral, 16 cm from superior to inferior, and 6.5 cm
from superficial to deep. The axillary portion measures 9 x 7 x 3 cm. The breast has an overlying broad
ellipse of tan skin measuring 25 x 16 cm. There is a medial and slightly inferiorly located poorly
delineated 4 cm areola with a protuberant 1.2 cm nipple. The central skin surface bulges outward in the
periareolar area over a distance approximately 8 cm. The skin is othenivise tan-white and unremarkable.
Sections of the bulging anterior skin reveal a partially hemorrhagic cavitary lesion which measures 7 cm
from medial to lateral, 7 cm from superior to inferior, and up to 3.5 cm from superficial to deep. The
cavitary space is filled with gray-tan tissue which has a ﬁnely lobulated appearance. Just inferior to the
cavitary space along the lateral edge there is creamy tan-white moderately firm fibrous breast
parenchyma. Representative tissue obtained for research purposes. Following fixation the anterior-
superior margin is inked blue, the anterior—inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which
consists predominantly of smooth fasclal tissue, is inked black. The breast is serially sectioned from the
posterior surface at close intervals to reveal the cavitary lesion described above. The breast parenchyma
is otherwise tan-white and has ﬁne palpable nodularity most notable in the lower»inner quadrant. The
creamy tan—white tissue at the posterior edge of the hemorrhagic lesion is 5 cm from the closest superior
margin, 4 cm from the closest inferior margin, 5.5 cm from the closest deep margin, 7.5 cm from the
closest medial margin, and 13 cm from the closest lateral margin. At its greatest dimension which is
superior-inferior the creamy white tissue at the posterior edge of the cavitary lesion measures 6.5 cm.
Representative sections are submitted. Section summary:

B1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

B2) representative skin with closest approach of hemorrhagic cavitary lesion,

B3) medial edge of hemorrhagic lesion,

B4-B5) sections cavitary lesion progressing centrally,

86-38) central-posterior portion of cavitary lesion with ﬁrm white tissue,

89-310) representative sections from lateral portion of hemorrhagic lesion,

B11) possible intramammary node 2.5 cm lateral to hemorrhagic lesion,

B12) representative breast tissue upper-inner quadrant (medial to hemorrhagic lesion),

B13) representative tissue lower-inner quadrant of breast (medial to hemorrhagic lesion),

Case #2 Pathology Consultation Report Page 6

Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

 

 

Patient:

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

314) representative breast tissue upper-outer quadrant (lateral to hemorrhagic lesion),
B15) representative breast tissue lower-outer quadrant (lateral to hemorrhagic lesion),
316) deep surgical margin closest to posterior edge of cavitary lesion,

317-819) nodal tissue trimmed from largest predominantly fatty (3.9 cm) node,
320-821) second largest node serially sectioned,

B22) single node serially sectioned,

323) two nodes bivalved (one inked),

B24) two node, one inked and trisected, one trisected,

825) four possible nodes intact,

B26) two nodes bivalved (one inked),

327) smaller possible nodes Intact.

Following review of the initially submitted sections, additional sections of the tumor are submitted as
follows:

328-832) polypoid necrotic appearing portion of tumor,

333) breast tissue surrounding tumor,

334-335) representative sections of solid tan portion of tumor. (

C. The specimen is labeled additional axillary contents right axilla and is received in formalin. It consists
of a 1.8 cm fragment of fibrofatty tissue. On dissection there are twa intact nodes, the larger node
measuring 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm and the smaller node 0.6 cm in maximum dimension. The larger node is
sectioned and submitted in cassette C1. The smaller node is bivalved and submitted in cassette C2. (08)

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

B. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered. IHC stains: p63, CK5/6, SMA, S100. See comment for staining results.
Appropriate positive and negative controls reviewed.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

Case #: : Pathology Consultation Report Page 7

Pi ted: REPRlNT:Ori . rlntln on
rn Phone 9 p 9

