 

 
 
 

    

Collected:
Received:
Reported:

  

DIAGNOSIS:
Left kidney, radical nephrectmny:
Renal cell carcinmna, clear cell type.

Staging sheet #36.

Tumor Characteristics:

Histologic type: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type.
Tumor site: Upper pole.
Tumor size: 5.0 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm.

Macroscopic extent of tumor: Limited to kidney.

-

Nuclear giade: Fuhrman grade: 214.

Lymphovascular space invasion: No.

Tianscapsularinvasion: Ho.

Renal vein invasion: No.

Venacaval invasion: Not resented.
. Adrenal gland: Not resented.
Surgical margin Status:

.

ACOODKIQIU'lh-WNI—A

O

A

Soft tissue margins: Negative.

Uretera! margin: Negative.

.mp0

Vascular Margins: Negative.
Lymph Node Status:

1 . None identiﬁed with specimen.

Other Signiﬁcant Findings:
1. pTNP-i stage: TthXHX.

 
 

Electronic Signature

COMMENTS:
This case has been reviewed in intredepartmental consultation and as part of the Department’s Quality Review Program —
agreement with the diagnosis.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLINICAL HISTORY:

PreoperatiVe Diagnosis: Renal mass
Postoperative Diagnosis:
iyrnptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
Let’t kidney

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Received in a single container lobe“ . a 240 gram left kidney. ‘13. D x 8. 0 x 7.0 cm in greatest dimension The capsule is tan-gray glistening
displaying an abundant amount of odhesed tan—yellow lohular adipose tissue. no adrenal gland is noted with the specimn. Sectioning reveals the
capsule strips with ease to display a yellow-brown smooth cortical surface. An upper pole mase is noted below the capsule. The hilar region displays an
abundant amount of tan-yellow tabular adipose tissue as well as a portion of ureter. 7.0 cm in length and 0.9 cm in diameter. Bivaluing the kidney
reveals a pale yellow-brown renal cortex and medulla. The cortex averages 0.8 an. ‘lhe specimen displays fat ﬁlled canoes with slightly blunted
pyramids. A well circumscribed ten—orange upper pole mass is noted, 5.6 x51) x4.5 cm in greatest dimension. This mass occupies approximately 15%
of the renal parenchyma. No other lesions are grossly noted. No invasion to the renal pelvis ' noted Samples of the mass have been submitted for
genomic in three caesettes. Representative sections submitted in eight cassettes labeled to as follows: renal and vessel margins—t;
inked capsule—2; pelvic wall—3; renal mass—4 to 7; normal renal tissue—B.

  

 

 

 

 

