 

UUID: ASD2BBA1- 2188 410r A32C- D916638267FA
TCGA- Q-R mom (MA-PR Read at: ted

Ill ll lllllllllllllll ll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll llllll ll
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ll ll
lll lllll l lllllll l llllll | lllllll {ill will llllllllllllllllllllill ll lll

 

Hm.

i

ll
Surgical Pathology

CASE NUMBER:
DlAGNOSlS: Adrenal, left (adrenalectomy): Pheochromocytoma, see
Note.

Surgical Pathology [t

NOTE: lmmunohistochemistry is performed. Tumor cells are positive for
chromogranin. synaptophysin, and CD56. 8100 stains sustentacular cells.

lmmunoperoxidase and in~situ hybridization tests performed here and used
for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, They have not been
cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.

~This laboratory 'is‘certiﬁedunder-the-Glinieal-Laboratory. improvementw-.. V _

Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Allocate Order to Protocol: Brief
Clinical History:
with left pheochromocytoma Specimen Taken For

Protocol: 01 - Yes

Final Results
Final

PROCEDURE: Pre‘Operative Diagnosis: pheochromocytoma Post—Operative

Diagnosis:
same Operative Findings: large left adrenal mass

SPEClMENS SUBMlTTED: 1. ADRENAL. GLAND, LEFT

GROSS DESCRlPTlON: Received fresh labeled with the patient's
name. medical record number, and further specified as "left adrenal" is
a pink—yellow soft tissue fragment measuring 10.4 x 5.5 x 36 cm and
weighing 62 grams. The external surface has an apparent orange rim of
adrenal tissue measuring 4.8 x i x 0.5 cm. The external surface of the
specimen is inked in black and bisected longitudinally revealing a
brown-tan friable mass with hemorrhage and necrosis measuring 4.9 x 4 x
3 5 cm Gross photographs are taken. Approximately 80% of
viable appearing tumor is procured for "
Approximately 1 x i x 0 5 cm of grossly unarrected adrenal away from the
mass is procured for the Laboratory of Pathology Tissue Bank.
Prostrrement is carried out by
at hour. The specimen received at the Laboratory at Pathology is
grossly consistent with the above description Representative sections
of in see are submitted in white cassettes labeled for
permanent processing. A representative section of grossly uninvolved
adrenal is submitted in white cassette labeled for permanent
processing.

Gross description dictated by

u fulnziirizt i‘ rticns irit‘m’rttn‘iou, iinzusthorrzcd ditch-slin- l» tjft‘lirinlc

.i ii} ’i"

“'x.

“your; Print} Art oi ‘t‘S‘T‘t 505m

 

Requested By:

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

Final lzesultgl

Suigical Pathology [

No consultants

 

 

TumorSite
MPAA
Prior
Caseis
Revxewer Reviewed:
1 X l
razgnwn. 3..um.nkmrx.r.u§ dimmanzx- H prMnMECd E7} :Eh: {kicrzxi Wan“; ACLU!" Eff i ~10le

 

a « whiumxl €‘2é5'zum i,

 

 

Requested By: Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

