Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Lymph node, level 9R, excision:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic tumor.
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

B. Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy:

Adenocarcinoma.

Specimen: Right upper lobe of lung

Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Right
Tumor site: Upper lobe
Specimen integrity: Intact
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.7 cm
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Tumor grade: Moderately differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: Not identified
Tumor Extension: N/A
Margins:

Bronchial: Negative for tumor (final margin negative for tumor)
Vascular: Negative for tumor
Parenchymal: Negative for tumor
If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:

Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: At least 4 mm

Specify margin: Bronchial

Treatment effect: Not applicable
Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified
Pathologic staging (pTNM):

TNM Descriptors: None
Primary tumor: pT1b
Regional lymph nodes: pNO
Distant metastasis: pMX

Additional pathologic findings: Calcified nodule (0.5 cm)
consistent with old granuloma
Focal calcification and foreign body giant cell
reaction
Emphysematous changes

C. Lymph node, level 7, excision: Three lymph nodes, all negative for
metastatic tumor but one with calcified granuloma.

D. Lymph node, 10R, excision: Two lymph nodes, both negative for metastatic
tumor, but with calcified/fibrotic granulomas.

No acid fast organisms identified on AFB stain.

Rare yeast forms identified on GMS stain consistent with Histoplasma

capsulatum.

E. Lymph node, 4R, excision:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic tumor.

F. True proximal bronchial margin, excision:
No malignancy identified.
Frozen section diagnosis confirmed.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA: Level 9:

One lymph node, negative for malignancy. Tissue fragmented from truck,
only one section obtained.

F/S TAT: 16 mins.

FSB1: Right upper lobe, bronchial margin:
Tumor present within bronchus.

FSB2: Right upper lobe, mass:
Non small cell carcinoma, favor adenocarcinoma.
F/S TAT: 37 mins.

FSF: Free edge true proximal margin:
Negative for malignancy.
F/S TAT: 20 mins.

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh, labeled "level 9R" is a 1.0 x 0.5 x 0.2

cm tan, irregular soft tissue, entirely exhausted for frozen section diagnosis.
A permanent tissue block is not submitted.

B. Received fresh, labeled "right upper lobe" is a 13.7 x

10.8 x 3.8 cm lobe of lung with 0.4 cm of exposed bronchus. The pleura is
purple-pink, smooth, glistening with a single staple line extending from the
hilum. Sectioning reveals a 2.7 x 2.5 x 1.7 cm tan, soft, heterogeneous well
delineated mass that abuts the pleura, coming to within 1.5 cm from the
bronchial margin and 1.8 cm from the nearest staple margin. Located 7 cm from
the mass, at the periphery is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm tan, firm markedly calcified,
well delineated nodule that comes to within 0.3 cm from the pleura. The
uninvolved parenchyma is tan-pink, soft, heterogeneous with markedly distended
air spaces. There are three tan to black anthracotic hilar lymph nodes

identified up to 0.7 cm. The bronchial margin is taken en face and submitted

for frozen section microscopy, now in cassette B1. A portion of the mass is
submitted for frozen section microscopy as FSB2, now in cassette B2.

Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted as follows:
B3 vascular margins taken en face;
B4 nearest inked stapled margin taken perpendicular;
B5-6 mass to pleura;
B7 random mass;
B8 smaller nodule in its entirety, submitted following decalcification;

B9 uninvolved parenchyma;
B10 one whole lymph node bisected;
B11 two whole possible lymph nodes.

C. Received in formalin, labeled ‘level 7 lymph nodes" are
three tan to black, irregular soft tissues ranging from 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm to
1.4 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm, submitted in toto in one cassette.

D. Received in formalin, labeled "10R lymph nodes" are two
tan to black, irregular soft tissues, 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm and 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm.

The specimens are entirely submitted as follows:
D1 smaller specimen bisected;
D2 larger specimen trisected.

E. Received in formalin, labeled "4R lymph nodes" is a 1.1
x 0.7 x 0.3 cm tan, irregular soft tissue, trisected and entirely submitted in
one cassette.

F. Received fresh, labeled- "free edge true proximal

margin" is a 2.3 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm irregular portion of apparent bronchus
containing multiple staples and sutures. A portion is submitted for frozen
section microscopy, now in cassette F.

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

Taker—
END OF REPORT

 

