Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient Name: Accession #1

MRN: Service: Collected:

DOB: ‘ Visit #1 Received:

Gender: F Location: Reported:
Facility:

Otdering MD:

Copy To:

 

‘ - ca) —C> <3
‘ Sgectmenlsl Received _ I
1. Lymph—Node: ST10L TB Angle W/ W (”ﬂax/03

2. GE Resection: proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus 8070/3
3. Esophagogastric Resection: Final esophageal margin 8 g E D H . l

4. Stomach Resection: Final gastric margin /
0 [55
02A) 6: II 0 [/3

Diagnosis
1. Lymph—Node: ST10L TB Angle:
- lymph node x1: negative for malignancy

2. Proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus. resection:
- squamous cell carcinoma of distal esophagus, well differentiated, extending into periadventitial tissue. lymph node
negative (0/26), pT3pN0 - see synoptic data and comment

3. Esophago—gastric Resection: Final esophageal margin: ““ID=;ggfcgg-i§§§64gc-BA7B-Easrussssc7a

- rt' f h 3 t' f f ' ' ‘ “'PR Redacted
p° ‘°”° 93°” 39“ ”ega've °rma'g"a"°y I”lllllIiiiiilillillIllill“llllllillllllllllllillllllllllllllllll

4. Stomach Resection: Final gastric margin: lH lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllll

.- portion of stomach: negative for malignancy. ill llllllllllllllllllillllllllllillillllllllllllilllllilllllliylllllll

Comment
2. The tumor focally extends into adventitial tissue and is 0.1 "cm from the painted outside surface of the specimen at the
closest point The tumor extends to the level of the GE junction. There is no evidence of involvement of the stomach.

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type: Esophagogastrectomy

Tumor Site: distal esophagus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 7.0 cm
Additional dimensions: 4.5 x 1.2 cm

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic Grade: G1: Well differentiated

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3: Tumor invades adventitia

pNO: No regional iymph node metastasis
Number of lymph nodes examined: 26

 

t Page 1 of 3

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Number of lymph nodes involved: 0
Margins: Proximal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Circumferential (Adventitial) margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1.0 mm
Margin: adventitial

Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent
Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent
Additonal Pathologic Findings: Gastritis (type): chronic inactive gastritis, negative for H. pylori

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Gross Descrigtion
1. The specimen is labeled with the patients name and as "lymph-node: ST10L TB angle'.

One lymph node measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm.
1A bisected and submitted In toto

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as “GE resection: Proximal stomach and total thoracic
esophagus".

Resection specimen: gastro-esophag‘ectomy.
Fixation: Received fresh.

DIMENSIONS:

Length of tubular esophagus: 8.0 cm.

Circumference of tubular esophagus at proximal resection margin: 4.0 cm.
Length of stomach: 3.0 cm.

Circumference of stomach at distal resection margin: 7.0 cm.

TUMOR: .
Measurement: 7.0 cm in length x 4.5 cm circumferentially at the gastroesophageal junction x 1.2 cm in depth.

Conﬁguration: Oval, with tumor within the distal esophagus, extending to GE junction and ? proximal stomach

Description: Raised, exophytic borders. with depressed. ulcerating base.
Depth of invasion: Through muscle wall

RESECTION MARGINS:

Proximal esophageal: 5.0 cm.

Distal gastric: 4.2 cm.

Adventitial: 0.2 cm. The adventitial margin is painted with green dye in sections submitted.

LESlONS IN NONCANCEROUS ESOPH‘AGUS AND/OR STOMACH: None. Barrett’s esophagus cannot be grossly
appreciated.

ADDITIONAL STRUCTURESC. None.

FROZEN SECTION:
The esophageal margin is submitted in toto en face in two blocks for Intraoperative consultation by frozen section.
An en face margin of the gastric margin closest to the tumor is submitted in a third block for inlraoperative consultation by

frozen section.

 

Page20f3

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

LYMPH NODES: Multiple lymph nodes measuring from 0.2 to 3.5 cm in maximum dimension are identiﬁed within the
perigastric and paraesophageal soft tissue.

TISSUE BANKING: The tumor (three pieces) and normal tissue (two pieces) are sampled for tissue banking.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:
2A-ZB esophageal resection margin in toto on face. bisected. frozen section blocks resubmitted
2C gastric resection margin closest to tumor en face, frozen section block resubmitted
2D-2F esophagus proximal to tumor

ZG-2M gastroesophageal tumor, full thickness sections

2N-20 stomach distal to tumor

2P representative en face distal gastric margin

ZQ~2T one quadrisected paraesophageal lymph node

2U-2W one bisected paraesophageal lymph node per block

2X-2AB two paraesophageal lymph nodes per block

2A0 one bisected perigastric lymph node

2AD-2AF two perigastric lymph nodes per block

2AG three perigastric lymph nodes

2H two perigastric lymph nodes

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient’s name and as “esophagogastric resection: Final esophageal margin".

One unoriented ring-shaped piece of soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 2.3 x 0.4 cm '
3A submitted in toto '

4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “stomach resection: Final gastric margin“.

One unoriented piece of gastric tissue measuring 9.7 x 4.0 x 0.4 cm. A staple line is present along one margin.
4A-4D stapled margin in toto en face (staple line removed)

Quick Section Diagnosis

2. Proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus:
Esophageal resection margin en face — 2A, 23: Negative for malignancy
Gastric resection margin at point closest to tumor, one representative section an face - 2C: Negative for malignancy

Reported to

 

3’3 /3 Vet N0

Criteria

Turncr Site

F

 

 

Page 3 of 3

