Correction Date-

Hospitai of Origin:
Copy to

QC Pathologist:

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DlAGNOSiS:

A. Lung. right upper lobe. wedge resection:
Squamous cell carcinoma. keratinizing type.

Size: 3.0 x 1.5 cm.

Grade: II.

No pleural invasion. . -‘

No lymphOVascular space invasion. 3 ,
Surgical margins free of tumor. -~
Tumor distance to pleural surface: 2 mm‘.

B. Lymph nodeﬂ'ievel 10, biopsy:

Negative for neoplasm, one node examined (011).
C. Lung, right upper iobe. lobectomy:
Emphysematous change and hemorrhage from previous excision,
No residual neoplasm.

D. Lymph node. level 7, biopsy:

Negativ , one node examined (0/1).
Staging pTi. N0, M0
COMMENTS:

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis:

Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadioiogic Findings:
SPECIMENS:

A. Right upper lobe mass with frozen section
B. Right lung level 10 lymph node

C. Right lung upperiobe

D. Right iung level 7 iymph node

 

PROCEDURAL DEMOGRAPHICS:
Date of Procedure:
Accession Date/Time: ., 7

 

 

 

’L

1h

 

 

GROSS DESCRiPTlON:
The specimen is received in four containers labeled

A. Additionally tapered right upper lobe mass and'contains '
an 8.5 x 5.4 x 2.0 cm lung wedge. The pleura is purple gray
and glistening. The staple line is removed and the

underlying arenchyma is inked black. The specimen is
serially sec toned to reveal a 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm Ill

deﬁned gray white mass that approaches to within 0.1 cm of
the inked parenchymal margin and to within 0.2 cm of the
pleural surface. The remainder of the cut surface is beefy
red, spongy with focally dilated air spaces. Representative
sections are submitted for frozen section with the

residual entirely resubmitted for permanent section in
cassette A1 labeled Additional
representative sections are suomrneti in Cassettes Ai~AY
designated as follows: A2—~ inked parenchymai margin,
perpendicular; A3~A7~- remainder of mass. Additionally. a
yellow and gr en cassette are submitted for genomic research
each labeledh

B. Additionally labeled right lung level 10 lymph node and
contains a 1.4 cm gray black rubbery. friable soft tissue
consistent with lymph node. The specimen is bisected and
entirely submitted in cassette B labeled '

C. Additionally labeled right upper lobe and contains a ‘
13.5 x 8.5 x 5.0 cm lung lobe surfaced by purple gray
glistening pleura. A 0.5 cm in length by 1.4 cm diameter
segment of exposed bronchus is present. Adjacent to the
bronchus are segments of stapled vasculature as well as
two serpiginous staple lines. The first is 9.5 and the
second is 12.0 cm in length. The staple lines are”
removed and the underlying parenchyma is inked black. The
specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a red pink,
hemorrhagic, congested cut surface. No masses or areas of
consolidation are identified. Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes Ci-C5 labeled

designated as follows: 1-— bronchial and vascular margins.
en face; 2— ﬁrst staple line, perpendicular; 3-— second

stapie line, perpendicular; 4-5—- representative

parenchyma.

D. Additionally labeled right lung level 7 lymph node and
contains a 2.0 cm grey black friable, soft tissue consistent
with lymph node. The specimen is bisected aﬁhenﬁrely
submitted in cassette D labeled .

lNTRA—PROCEDURE CONSULTATlON:
A. Frozen section diagnosis: Lung, right Unnar lnhn‘
. Rnrrnmnl rs. ceiLcarcinomaner D!"

11"

 

 

 

FULL RESULT:
indication: Low oxygen saturation. Right lower lobe atelectasis.

Comparison:-

Procedure: Portable chest.

Findings: Right sided chest tube remains in place with its tip at the
right lung apex. There is no pleural fluid. ‘_

Near—complete opacificatlon of the right hemithorax on the prior
examination is improved although there is persistent

opacity especially at the right base. There is mild linear and
interstitial opacity at the left base which has

increased. The left upper lung is clear.

lMPRESSION:
lnterval improved aeration of the right lung with increased mild left
basilar opacity.

.,___ up- .__ug

4-QsdEEtEi-Resﬁliﬁssmsi. ._ . .

1h

 

 

