CoPath

Anatomical Pathology

/6’7(1/ Surgical PathologyConsullatlortReport
l 4 {Sta ,

0. Left ovary:

1. Ovary showing extensive involvement by grade 3 serous carcinoma.
2. Unremarkable fallopian lube.

  
   

   

      

Final Diagnosis:
A. Right ovary biopsy: Invasive serous carcinoma. grade 3l3.

B. Omentum: Extensive replacement by grade 3 serous carcinoma.

D. Right ovary:

t. Ovary extensively involved by grade 3 serous carcinoma with extra-
ovarian extension.

2. Adherent appendix and fallopian tube.

   

E. Peritoneal cytolog High-grade serous carcinoma.

clinical History as Provided by Submitting Physician:
Ovarian Ca

A. R ovary biopsy

B. Omentum

C. L ovary

D. R ovary

   

Specimens Received:

A: right ovary bx

B: omenlum

0: left ovary

0: right ovary

Gross Description:

Specimen is received in tour containers each labelled with the patient‘s name.

Container ”A" is labelled "right ovary biopsy” and consists ofa 2.5 x
2.5 x1.0 cm solid tissue. Frozen section diagnosis: Positive for invasive carcinoma. The specimen is submitted in tale in cassettes "A1" and
"A2".

Container"B“ is labelled "omentum" and consists of an apron of greater omentum measuring 25.0 x 7.0 x 3.0 cm weighing 179 g. The
omentum consists of yellow fat with numerous (at least 16) perforated, partially adherent ﬁrm nodules and unilocular cysts measuring 3.5 cm
in greatest dimension for the largest one. Sectioning of the nodules demonstrates solid ﬁbrous structures with areas of necrosis and
hemorrhage. Cross—section of cysts demonstrates papillary lesion of the inner lining with areas of hemorrhage. Representative sections are
submitted as "B1" through ”34".

Container "C" is labelled "left ovary" and consists of a tumour mass measuring 9.5 x 5.0 x 4.1 cm with irregular surface, partially covered with
serosa with numerous adhesions with defects. The tumour mass protrudes from the defects from the serosa. Cross-section of the specimen
reveals a solid area and muttilocular cyst with hemorrhagic content. Representative sections are submitted as "C1“ through "CS”.

 

.- oz- 27/

Container “D" is labelled "right ovary" and consists of a tumour mass measuring 13.0 x 13.0 x 5.0 cm weighing 210 g. The external surface is
partially covered with screen roughened with numerous adhesions. it contains numerous detects with the tumour mass protruding from it.
Section of this specimen reveals multilocular cysts with a solid area measuring 0.0 x 3.9 x 5.5 cm. The inner lining of the cysts contain
numerous papillary lesions protruding from its surface. Representative sections are submitted as ”Dt” through "D6”

lntraoperative Consuttation:

FSAt: GROSS: 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm solid tissue
PROVISIONAL DlAGNOStS: Positive for invasive carcinoma
-Favour serous

 

