UUID: 02679879-7237-4515-9496-31FCE87C8571d
TCGA- AS- A566- BlA- PR

ll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII | I||||lI|II||||IIIIII| I ”III" IIII II We

III ,
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIII I IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII / (A " J ‘ 3
WW MWW “05
(Fm/s

3'27“" Cafe/«J, MW Calf-C9

SPECIMEN W
A. Apical lymph node fﬂﬂé}
B. Left hemicolectomy, left nephrectomy, distal pancreas, spleen,
proximal jejunum
C. Appendix

I
I I
III

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Carcinoma descending colon invading hilum left
kidney, distal pancreas, segment of jejunum.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. The specimen is Received in formalin, labeled "apical

lymph node" and consists of a piece of tan and yellow
tissue measuring 1.2 x l x 0.4 cm. bisected AS—l after fixation.
AS-l.

B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled "left

hemicolectomy, left nephrectomy, distal pancreas, spleen,
proximal jejunum" and consists of a complex specimen comprising
kidney measuring 11 x 7.5 x 5.3 cm., spleen measuring 14 x 7 x 5 cm.
and adherent bowel. The bowel measures 33 cm. in length and has
stapled margin. There is some omentum on the specimen and there is a
small amount of pericolonic fat. There are no palpable nodes in the
pericolonic fat. There is an adherent segment of bowel centrally
that might represent small bowel that measures 8 cm. in length and 4
cm. from diameter. The small segment of bowel that looks like it
might be adherent to small bowel has fungating tumor centrally. The
central tumor mass is adherent to the small bowel and kidney,
measures 6.5 cm. in diameter by external palpation of his roughly
spherical. A portion of tumor and normal colon are taken for
research purposes. Sections through the tumor taken after fixation
show carcinoma invading the lower pole of the kidney and a portion
of pancreas measuring 7 x 3 x 2 Cm.

BLOCK SUMMARY: #81, 2 — Colonic and small bowel margins of
resection; B3 — 7 — colonic tumor; BB, 9 — pancreas; 310, ll ~
spleen; 312 ~ 15 — kidney and ureter; BIG — 18 — pericolonic lymph
nodes.

C. The specimen is Received in formalin, labeled

"appendix" and consists of a tan vermiform appendix
measuring 4.7 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The appendix
measures 5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. As~2 The tip of the appendix and the
proximal end are in block #1. Sections after fixation.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.
8. Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma with areas of
mucinous differentiation
Tumor grade: 2 out of 3
Tumor size: 7 cm.
Distance to nearest margin: 14 cm.

Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates through the
muscularis propria of the colon into adjacent pancreas and kidney.

Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy
Vascular invasion: There are areas suspicious for
lymphatic invasion in pericolonic soft tissue.

Host response: Mild chronic inflammation

Attached lymph nodes: Metastatic carcinoma is present
in two of thirteen lymph nodes. The largest metastasis

is 0.7 cm. in dimension.
pTNM Stage: T4 Nl

other findings: Sections of pancreas, spleen and
kidney are otherwise unremarkable. The spleen is not
involved by the tumor.
C. Sections of appendix are unremarkable.

DIAGNOSIS
A. Apical lymph node, biopsy:
A single lymph node is negative for malignancy.

B. Left colon, left kidney, distal pancreas, spleen, proximal
jejunum, resection:

Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma.

Note: Carcinoma invades into the adjacent jejunum, kidney and
pancreas. Metastatic carcinoma is present in two of thirteen
pericolonic lymph nodes.

C. Vermiform appendix, resection:
No pathological diagnosis.

--— End Of Report --—

criteria '
DIugl’loslS Discrepancy
__~——-—-—-.—’

PrmIalv Tumor Sm: Ducmpancv
ﬂIPMUk’n‘. aucy

Pmr Ma'rgnro; Nisimv
Duaf/Syudwonoo'. Pri‘ 'i
ll "7

a,

 

