  

GA—ﬁii- 2793

Material examined:

Left lung, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Adenocarcinoma right central, pleural effusion. TNM?

REPORT ON FINDINGS

Macrosc'opy

l.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed right lung measuring 17 x 13 cm and up to 27 cm high, central bronchus resection plane
located 2 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus. Pleura with extensive grayish-yellow
coating and, especially in the medial region, with ragged plaques and adhesion residue, in the dorsolateral
region over segment 1 a 13 x 8 cm area of parietal pleura is in parts extensively adhesive, in parts loosely
attached. Upper pleural ﬁssure completely obliterated. Middle lobe reduced in size and largely occupied by
parts of a tumor, max. 9.5 cm in size, predominantly with clear and arcuate demarcation, extending to adjacent
sections of the upper lobe and to central sections of the lower lobe. Extension right up to the hilar resection
surface and the paracentral medial pleura above the upper lobe and also via the middle and lower lobe in the
region of the lower pleural ﬁssure. Involvement of several gray to blackish nodes, 1.5 cm in size, and narrowing
of central blood vessels by the tumor. Invasion of the pulmonary vein to within the proximity of the resection
margin. Wall inﬁltration and narrowing of lumen of the intermediate bronchus, whose mucosa shows areas of
polypous protrusion above the tumor. Sections of middle lobe bronchi completely obstructed by the tumor
tissue. Peripheral middle lobe bronchi markedly dilated and ﬁlled with thick mucus, parenchyma in the tumor
environment, especially in the middle lobe, shows seam-like area of induration and patchy brownish-yellow
discoloration. In 82 a 4 cm area of induration with an irregular contour and brownish—red discoloration. In the
pulmonary artery a 2 cm long cylindrical, focal thrombus adhering to the wall.

2.) Pleura: ﬂat or membranous specimen measuring 6.5 x 4.5 cm and up to 0.3 cm thick, surface turbid and in
parts patchy brownish, in parts grayish-yellow.

3.) Subcarinal LN (station 71'): 0.3 cm lesioned node or node part.

4.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 1.5 cm fatty specimen, containing at least two lesioned nodes or node
parts, 1 cm and 0.4 cm in size.

5.) Hilar LN (station 10) left: 0.5 cm lesioned node with some surrounding tissue.

6.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: 1 cm lesioned node or node part with some surrounding tissue.

Examined:
la: Tumor with rest of parenchyma. lb: tumor with intermediate bronchus. l: pulmonary artery with thrombus.

1d: tumor with hilar resection surface (color-marked). le: tumor with paracentral pleura. if: lower pleural
ﬁssure (lower lobe part color-marked). l g: upper pleural ﬁssure (upper lobe part color-marked). 1h: middle lobe
peripheral. ii: 81 with pleural adhesion. 1}: central bronchus resection plane and resection margins of vessels.
1k + l: tumor in pulmonary vein. m: induration area 82.

2.) 5 sections.

3.) - 6.) All material (in 4.) node isolated, in 6.) preparation halved).

18 blocks, partly Elastica—van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS.

Microscopy
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

 

