UUID:105E4376-2ED6-433A-3542-9F3E964R19eBB§a
TCGA- FB- AAQ 2- 91A- PR

I

I
TSS Patient ID: I)
II

II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||IIIIIIIIIIII

I
I II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Surgical Date:

Gross Description: A: Lymph node of gastroduodenal artery: Received is 1 unoriented,
irregular, yellow to red, fatty tissue, measuring 3 x 1.5 x 1 cm, with

adjacent red-brown, soft tissue. The specimen is bisected. The entire

C.
(l
specimen is submitted. h

B: in subtotal gastrectomy: Received weighing 910 grams, consisting

if;

5.
.~

of stomach, pancreas with tumor, spleen, as well as attached fat. The

in Wm???)
‘55- 0 (2°12:

pancreas with tumor measures 11 (ML) x 5 (SI) x 5 (AP) cm. The tumor is

”r? .-
\

inked black, the staple line is removed, and inked orange. The tumor has
been bisected and noted to be 1.2 cm to the margin. The entire pancreatic

margin was sent for frozen section diagnosis. Underlying tissue is inked

ﬁlm/9 :1

orange. The mass measures 5.5 (ML) x 4.5 (SI) x 4.5 (AP) cm, indurated,

ovoid, light tan with central yellow necrosis. The mass invades the

 

gastric wall and is located 2.5 cm to proximal and 15 cm to distal margins.

Q/CfQQ-S SQPWW

The spleen measures 12 (SI) x 7 (AP) x 3 (ML) cm and has an intact capsule.

The stomach measures 22 x 11 x 3 cm. There is a proximal staple line

57/13/7178 69/2le I wmmrw 'wArmw/WZZM

measuring 12 cm and a distal staple line measuring 3.5 cm adjacent to
pylorus. The greater curvature measures 28 cm and the lesser curvature
measures 15 cm. A portion of the tumor is sent to

. Representative sections are submitted.
C: Pancreatic margin: Received are multiple tissues measuring 3 x 2 x 0.7
cm. There is a blue surgical stitch indicated as new surgical margin. The

frozen section residue is submitted.

Microscopic Description:

Diagnosis Details: Specimen: Head of pancreas, Stomach, Spleen

Procedure: Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple resection), partial pancreatectomy
Tumor Site: Pancreatic head

Tumor size greatest dimension: 5.5cm

Tumor Focality: Unifocal

Histologic Type: Poorly differentiated endocrine carcinoma

Mitotic Activity: Cannot be determined

Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades other adjacent organs or structures: gastric wall and blood
vessels

Margins: Negative for tumor

Angiolymphatic Invasion: Present

Perineural Invasion: Present

AJCC Stage (7th Edition) (pTNM)

Primary Tumor (pT): pTX

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1

Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 2
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 23
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Comments: Comment: The involved lymph nodes are immediately adjacent to the tumor mass;

therefore the involvement of the nodes may be by direct extension instead of or in addition to
lymphatic spread.

Formatted Path Reports: PANCREAS TISSUE CHECKLIST
Specimen type: Whipple resection

Tumor site: Head

Tumor size: 5.5 cm

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, ductal type

Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated

Tumor extent: Other - Other surrounding organs

Lymph nodes: 2/23 positive for metastasis (Regional 2/23)
Lymphatic invasion: Present

Venous invasion: Present

Margins: Uninvolved

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specified
Additional pathologic findings: Not specified

Comments: None

    

'20 T55 dz afar/up m,
706/} MW} ['5 amen/z ‘
M!

+Mr

I

9 ”/1

Prior

Reviewer

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4. ()0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Minus; The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for 'I‘CGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS): ,___~_ _TSS Identiﬁer; - TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: _ _
Completed By (Interviewer Name on _ Completed Date: _
(Diagnosis Information

# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions

 

Pathologic Diagnosis

4U owe: vd‘fcctecx

Provide the diagnosis] histologic subtype(s) documented on
the initial pathology report for this case. if the histology for

 

1 Provided on Initial \ ‘ this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report cm in M dowel wow/Lac.
. . . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
{Egtggggpfefgizlzifiigf A iIKDCOc‘fuI’k—Dl’ 1 Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 d g . Iii—(«L
for TCGA, as reflected ‘
on the CQCF. OLD 0‘4 WP‘X’

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P 'd th 1" Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
3 $336218 83:: son or tPOJi’u—bbﬂ Ll‘r W“ 54% Samoiogy report for this case Is not conslstent with the
P y diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
heme" the Path°l°gy 51mm Lu wrci VUD mat”
report and the TCGA
Case Quality Control ‘
For“). to VWV‘ \19— UL.) l0 \1 S t *‘€-
? atria-abs 1‘ 3+ has
(bu (wk H doc l/LOQCKVQJC (Mal/ALL/
duo-top) *‘I‘CIPLM m
'11) we» v’ r a. (>0 r
Oi/l +6de Wh (121‘,ch
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or - . ‘0' TC“-
Biorepository Director

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my Institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing '. uLIIO -gist or Biorepository Director

Date

Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

Principal Investgaiur signature

Date

