., ,,,,, .CGAmA3—3358

Physician Portal Page 1' of 2

“testiﬁetgical Pathway.

Elledsqmieaﬁma

Result Name Results ' Unis Reference Range
Surgicai Pathoiogy COPY TO:

COPY TO:

“Pro—Op Dia

Left renal mass

Post-Op Diagnosis

Same as above

Clinical History

Same as above

Gross Description: _

Received in a single container labeled m - left kidney"
is a 980 gram previously partially bisected left nephrectomy specimen
surrounded by a large amount of perinephric adipose tissue enfaced
anteriorly by a moderate amount of Gerota's fascia. The specimen as
received on reconstruction measures 26.? x 11.8 x 8.7.cm. Noted in
the superior antral medial aspect of the perinephric adipose tissue
is a 5.9 x 3.0 x 1.3 cm adrenal gland. The renal margins of
resection include 1.3 cm of grossly patent renal artery, 0.5 cm of
grossly patent renal vein, and 9.8 cm of grossly patent ureter. The
capsule strips with ease to reveal an organ measuring 11.4 x 7.2 x
5.6 cm. This has a lobulated finely granular red brown cortical
surface. The specimen is previously sectioned in the low posterior
pole to reveal an eccentric 2.7 x 2.5 x 2.2 on well circumscribed
thinly encapsulated chalky gray yellow to brown focally hemorrhagic
lesion. 0n sectioning this lesion has a tan pink to yellow focally
hemorrhagic cut surface but appears grossly confined to the capsule.
This grossly appears to focally extend to within 0.1 cm of the
cortical margin; however, the lesion does not appear to extend beyond
the capsule into the cortex. The surrounding parenchyma is slightly
focally compressed by this lesion; however, the lesion does not
grossly appear to extend into the parenchyma. The remaining renal_
parenchyma consists of a cortex measuring up to 0.3 cm which is
slightly granular homogenous red brown. Thevcortical medullary
junction is poorly defined.‘ The medulla is red brown with sharp
papillae. The calices and pelvis are lined by smooth tan white
mucosa which extends into the ureter.

Also re ‘ me container are three tissue cassettes each
labeled Representative sections are submitted labeled
as foll . — r and ureteral margins, B through E —

representative lesion and surrounding tissue, F — random uninvolved
parenchyma, G - representative adrenal gland.
Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled“ are examined. See diagnosis.
Final Diagnosis
Left kidney:
Tumor characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type.
2. Tumor site: Lower pole.
. Size: 2.7 cm in greatest diameter.
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney.
. Nuclear grade: 1—2/4
. Lymphovascular space invasion: Focal tumor identified within

min-hm

'endothelial-lined " '

lymphovascular space.
7. Transcapsular invasion: No.
8. Renal vein invasion: N0.
9. Venn caval invasion: Not resected.
Surgical margin status:
1. Soft tissue margins: Negative.

 

 

Physician Portal - Page 2 of 2

2. Uretersl margin: Negative.
3. Vascular margin: Negative.

Lymph node status: -
No lymph nodes resected.

other:
Left adrenal gland: No pathologic diagnosis. PAS 9 SEC-A
CPT: 88307 x 2
Comments
This test has been finalized at the“ Campus.

 

1%

 

- Viewed By - , - - " Date'_& Time

 

 

