UUID:FFC65F7B-417l-4E52-B§AF-1898C61hEAEDOac
GA-VD-MﬂT-Ol. iA-PR

 

IIIIIIIIII'IIIIII "I'll'II"“II“|II|I'"'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l l I
,- Department of Pathology III I
, HSTOPAWOGY Ill mm II|||||II|II|III|||I||I ||||||l||l II “III mum II III

Surname Lab No 7 Cllnlcal Consultant 3. Location
— unl—

Forename(s) DOBIAgo Sex w
.5 g L

Unlt No Request Date

_ u_ —-

 

 

 

SPECIMEN
LEFT GLOBE ENUCLEATION

CLINICAL DETAILS

Thls Copy For: —' _

(FOR DIAGNOSTIC AND PROGNOSTIC)

See diagram. Measurements 14.28 x 14.26 x (9.49)mm.

MACROECOPIC DESCRIPTION

A fresh, intact left globe.

Dimensions: Axial 24.5mm, Horizontal 24mm, Vertical 24mm

Cornea: Horizontal 11.5mm, Vertical 10. 8mm - .
Description: arcus senilis. ICC!) (3 t3

Optic nerve

Length 7mm, diameter 4mm

Pupil: very dilated

On trans~illumination,
side. Approx 18mm.

”WWW. 52/94 2141/00 (LII—[1N r F77Q )6

.4. ’ ( h Ci
L) EZ (Cove/LIJd/Wj la. 22 L‘lgéj’ékégﬂk

a large shadow is seen on the medium 7:," 06/60/714

Plane of section: horizontal

Intraocular description:

On opening, a solitary pigmented dome shaped choroidal mass
is seen. There is probable ciliary body involvement.
Posterior edge is 11mm from optic disc.

Tumour size
LBD 12mm, Height 9mm

MICROSCOPY

Sections show a partially pigmented ciliochoroidal melanoma
consisting predominantly of spindle cells. The number of
mitosis is approximately 2/40 high power fields. Closed
loops are present in the planes of sections. The lymphocytic
infiltrate within the tumour is minimal. Scattered
macrophages are present. Tumour necrosis is not seen.
Bruch's membrane appears breached in the sections examined.

Reported: Pathologist: "-
Electronically Veriﬁed:~

m'nled

 

 

 

 

 

 

,, Department of Pathology Page 2 of3
,HBTOPATHOLOGYREPORT Ta:
Sumama Lab No Cllnlcal Consultant & Location
— _I r-
Forename(s) DOBIAge Sex “
g - Q
Unlt No Request Data
—..— -

 

 

 

 

This Copy For:

There is no tumour extension through the sclera, optic nerve
or vortex veins examined. Tumour extends very close to
anterior chamber angle and trabecular meshwork however no
definitive evidence of ring pattern of spread is seen.
Tumour cells are not seen at the resection margins.

Elsewhere, the cornea shows no significant abnormality apart
from oedema in basal epithelial cells. The anterior chamber
angles are open and the anterior chamber is deep. The iris
shows no significant abnormality but the ciliary body away
from the tumour appears atrophic with hyalinisation of
ciliary processes. Lens remnants show cataractuous changes.
Retina overlying the tumour is slightly atrophic.

DIAGNOSI 5

Left eye, enucleation: Ciliochoroidal melanoma of
predominantly spindle cell type.

COMMENT

Assessment of Melan—A and HSP 27 expression will be carried
out. In addition, molecular genetic examination of DNA
extracted from the tumour cells will be performed using
multiplex—ligation dependent probe amplification (MLPA),
looking at chromosomes 1, 3, 6 and 8. A supplementary report
will follow in due course.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT

In the meantime, immunohistochemical stains were performed.
The tumour cells stain for MelanA and partially for HSP—27
(score 1).

SUPPLEMENTARY ' REPORT (MLPA)

In the meantime, molecular genetic analysis of tumour DNA
extracted from the fresh uveal melanoma tissue was performed
using the technique termed multiplex ligation-dependent
probe amplification (MLPAl. These investigations were
performed in the

The kit P027 from ., which examines for gains or

Reportedz' Pathologist: _
Electronically Verified: "

 

 

ﬂﬂﬁ

 

 

 

 

 

 

, Department of Pathology Page 3 0:3
,WSTOPATHOLOGYREPORT Ta:

Surname Lab No Clinical Consultant 8: Location
- l— —

Forenamoha) DOBIAge Sex —
— _ L

Unit No Request Date
— ~ “ __

 

 

 

 

This Copy For: -

losses in 31 loci on chromosomes 1, 3. 6 and 8, was used.

The DNA concentration was measured using and the
quality assessed using multiplex-PCR prior to the MLPA
reaction.

The DNA concentration was high and of good quality on
assessment. The MLPA reaction was run at least twice on
differing occasions, resulting in similar results.

The results of the sequence analysis of the MLPA products is
printed on a separate report. In summary, sequence analysis
demonstrated:

Loss of chromosome 1p,
monosomy 3,

normal chromosome 6

and gains in chromosome 8.

These molecular data require correlation with the clinical
and morphological data for metastatic risk assessment.

Reported: Pathologist: -
Electronically Verified: “

Criteria

 

 

