 

 

UUID:3EDC1338-36AF-4C66-BAA2-385C382FF39A
TcsA-Gu-A762-e1A-PR Redacted

Ill lllHIlllillllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllll||||I|
Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllll
lHlllllllillllllillllllllllliHllilllllllllllliliillllﬂllllllllllillﬂlli

Results \ BIOPSY 0R SURGiCAL SPECIMEN (Order—

Patient Information
Patient Name MR Sex D B
_ Male

Result Information

 

Status Provider Status
Final resu- Ordered
Entry Date

 

Component Results
Component

Sur lcal Patholo
2:42) --0 ' ":5 V
Cerwgs} mﬂd’a‘ﬂ‘d #08

Final Diagnosis 87st
A. Right distal ureter, margin segment, cystoprostateotomy: 5:11 81W #023507 a,
<Elenign ureter segment ' '
-Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed (Lye) Ell 3/13
8. Left distal ureter. margin segment, cystoprostatectomy:
-Benign ureteral segment ‘
-Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed PWTSS 09.1”ch MW an I
ah W 5"” _
C. Bladder and prostate, cystoprostatectomy: M ‘5 to gar. W‘
-|nvasive. high grade urotheiial carcinoma with prominent. extensive squamous ”at
differentiation (see note)
-Carcinoma is ulcerated. involves about 80 percent of the bladder well including
the intravesical right ureter
~Largest tumor nodules is 7.5 x 4.3 x 0.7 cm in the right lateral wall; multiple
other tumor nodules identified in fundus, left lateral wall, anterior wall and
in the prostate (2.5 cm)
~Tumor infiltrates through the muscularis proprla, extensively into the
perivesical adipose tissue, into the prostatic stroma (right greater than left)
and right seminal vesicle (blocks C5 and 06)
Extensive perineural invasion present
~No lymphovascular invasion identiﬁed
—Carcinoma is present at the posterior serosal surface (block 026) and at the
right anterior prostatic capsular resection margin (block C31)
-Biiaterai ureterai and urethral resection margins are negative for carcinoma
Benign bladder mucosa with extensive squamous metapiasia, chronic cystitis with
reactive lymphoid follicles; diverticulum in the right fundus with squamous
metaplasia
D. Left pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
-Three lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma //
—Extranodal extension present (3.8) \\

E. Right pelvic lymph nodes, dissection:
-One of seven lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma (1/7)

CAP CANCER CHECKLIST

 

 

‘39...

Specimen:
Bladder and prostate

Procedure: * 9 " n I at" z“
Radical cystoprostatectcmy

Tumor Site:
Right and left lateral walls, anterior wall, posterior wall, dome of bladder

Tumor Size:i
Approximate dimension: 9.0 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm

Histologic ’(ype:
Urotheilai carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation

Associated Epithelial Lesions:
None identiﬁed

Histologlc Grade:
Urolhelial Carcinoma (WHO/2004 ISUP): High grade

Tumor Configuration:
Solid. interconnected nests with keratinization and acantholytic foci;
ulcerated/necrotic at the mucosal surface

Microscopic Tumor Extension:
Perlvesicai fat, prostatic stroma. and into the intravesical portions of the
right and left ureters

Margins:

Tumor present at the posterior vesical serosal surface (block (326). right
anterior prostatic capsular resection margin (block 031)

Ureteral and urethral resection margins. uninvolved by carcinoma

Lymphovascular invasion:
Not identified

Perineural Invasion:
Present, extensive

Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT):
pT4a: Tumor invades prostatic stroma

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):

pN2: Multiple regional lymph node metastases in the true pelvis
Number examined: 10

Number involved: 4

Distant Metastasis (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed

Additional Pathologic Findings:

Tumor associated with prominent inﬂammatory cell infiltrate including
lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils

Non-neoplastic urothellum including rig ht fundic diverticulum with extensive
squamous metapiasia and chronic cystitis with reactive lymphoid follicles

Ancillary Studies:
None performed at this time; blocks C7 or C33 may be used if required

~ Page 2 of 6

 

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCCfUlCC TNM, 7th
edition.

Note

The tumor is ulcerated and necrotic at the bladder mucosa and is comprised of

solid, interconnected nests with keratinization and acantholytic foci. There is \h A? (§\\Q&L

ex ' ' ' ‘ n. Tumor in the prostate and in the lymph U k3?! ' “
nodes is a syncytium of malignant ceiis associated with prominent mixed chronic smog,“ Q03 geaq
inﬂammation comprised of lymphocytes. plasma cells and eosinophils. features of \

lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma. ‘\r\ \QCQ. \03‘6‘.
immunohistoohemical stains performed with appropriate controls show the

following results within the tumor cells: :- "CQJW

CKT Positive, extensive

CKZO Negative

CK5/6 Positive. extensive

AEi/AE3 Positive, extensive

LCA highlights ieucocytes at the edges of the tumor cell nests/syncyllum

EBV in-situ hybridization negative

This is a high—grade carcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation. While a
high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation is favored.

squamous tumor histomorphology, negative CK20, extensive CK5/6 expression, and
extensive benign squamous metaplasia raise the possibility of a de-novo squamous
ceil carcinoma.

Selected slides a reviewed at the _
The findings arejicommuﬁted via e-meil to Dr. ' _-
Clinical History

Bladder cancer
Cystectomy with ureteroileai conduit

Source:

A‘ Right distal ureter

B: Left distal

C: Bladder and prostate

D: Left pelvic lymph nodes
E: Right pelvic lymph node

Gross Description

Specimen A, received fresh labeled with the patient’s name and designated "right
distal ureter" is a tubular segment of tissue. 0.3 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis as

A1.

Specimen B, received fresh iabeied with the patients name and designated "left
distal ureter" is a tubular segment of tissue, 0.1 cm in length and 0.4 cm in
diameter. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section diagnosis as
Bi.

Specimen C
Type of specimen: Urinary bladder. ureter stumps, prostate. seminal vesicles

The patient‘s name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying papenvork and cassettes.

— ' Page—refs

 

Procedure: Cystectomy

Fixative: Fresh

Dimensions:

Bladder - 9.5 cm SI x 5.3 cm LR x 5.5 cm AP

Right ureter — 8.2 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter

Left ureter — 2.7 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter

Prostate - 3.5 cm apex to base x 4.3 cm left to right x 4.0 cm anterior to
posterior

Overall dimensions - 22.0 cm Sl x 12.0 cm RL x 5.5 cm AP

Description of ﬁndings:

Tumor: 80% of the bladder mucosa is covered with ulcerated tumor. in the right
lateral wall, the tumor is 7.5 x 4.3 x 0.7 cm. invading through the wall and to
within 0.6 cm of the inked soft tissue margin. In the left fundus. there is a

3.5 x 2.5 cm area of tumor which extends through the wall and to within 1.2 cm
of the soft tissue margin. in the left lateral wait, there is a 2.5 x 2.2 cm

area of tumor which extends through the wall to the inked soft tissue margin.

in the anterior well, there is a 4,5 x 4.0 cm area of tumor which extends

through the wall to the inked soft tissue margin. The tumor is ulcerated and
friable, most friable and ulcerated in the right lateral wall. The right ureter

is adhesed to the soft tissue, extending inferiorly and curving upward to the
ureteral oriﬁce.

involvement of important adjacencies: The tumor abuts and surrounds the left and
right ureteral orifice. extends into the prostate. most prominent in the right
anterior base. extends into the seminal vesicles and focally extends through the
wall into the soft tissue.

Uninvolved mucosa: The mucosa not involved by tumor is somewhat edematous.
There is a pouch-like diverticulum in the right fundus. 2.5 cm in length with a
diameter of 2.2 cm. The pouch communicates with the bladder cavity. Ulcerated
tumor does not extend into the diverticulum.

Prostate: The prostate gland is serially sectioned apex to pass into five slabs,
In the right anterior aspect of slab 2-5. there is tan firm tumor with '
ulceration. The tumor is within 0.6 cm of the inked capsule. The remainder of
the gland is tan and granular. with focal striations and pale foci.

ink code:

Anterior bladder — green

Posterior bladder - black

Right prostate — orange

Left prostate blue

Gross photographs are taken

Section key:

C1 — urethral margin

02 - left ureter and left ureteral oriﬁce. blue ink on ureter

C3 - right ureter and right ureteral orifice. blue ink on ureter

Cit-CG - central bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor

C7-CB - right bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor

CQ-Ci 0 — left bladder neck to seminal vesicle with tumor

Cit-C13 — right lateral wall tumor to inked soft tissue margin
Ci4-C15 - left lateral bladder mucosa with tumor in soft tissue

016 - left lateral wali

017 - left fundus, tumor to inked soft tissue margin

018-020 — anterior bladder tumor to inked soft tissue margin
021-025 - diverticulum right fundus. 023—025 junction with bladder
026-027 - tumor at posterior soft tissue margin

C28~029 - left lateral wall tumor through wall to inked soft tissue margin
C30 — slab 1 prostate right apex serially sectioned

031 - slab 2 prostate right anterior

032 - slab 2 prostate right posterior

C33 - slab 4 prostate right anterior

C34 - slab 5 prostate right anterior

#: Page 4 Of6

 

C35— slab 5 prostate right posterior

036 - slab 3 prostate right anterior

C37 - slab 1 prostate left apex serially sectioned
038 - slab 2 prostate left anterior

039 - slab 2 prostate left posterior

C40 ~ slab 4 prostate left anterior

041 - slab 4 prostate left posterior

C42 - slab 5 prostate left posterior

Specimen D, received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"left pelvic lymph node" is adipose tissue. 5.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. There are three
nodes, 1.2 cm, 1.5 cm, and 2.0 cm. The cut surface of each node shows a diffuse
white inﬁltrating parenchyma. The nodes are submitted entirely as follows:

Di - one node trisected

DZ - one node quadrisected

pa - one node serially sectioned into six pieces

Specimen E. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"right pelvic lymph node" is adipose tissue, 5.5 x 3.5 x 1.6 cm. There are
seven possible nodes, 0.5 to 2.0 cm. One of the larger nodes shows infiltrating
white parenchyma (E2). The nodes are submitted entirely as follows:

E‘l - four whole nodes

E2 ~ one node serially sectioned into five pieces

E3 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces

E4 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces

Microscopic Description

The stain quality is acceptable.

ME. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnoses rendered.
lntraoperative Diagnosis

Time in: Time out:
A1-FS. Right distal ureter: ”Negative for tumor."

Time in: Time out:
Bi-FS. Left distal ureter: "Negative for tumor; incomplete transaction."

Reported to Dr. by Dr.

“"Electronicalli Slined Out By

Results

Pa holo Re on ‘ ‘ _, , lntraogerative Consultation Report
Result History ‘
BIOP§Y OR §URQICAL gEEQIMEb-rggr Result History Report.

Collection Information

Specimen Source Date and Time %
Other *—

Lab Information

 

 

 

6’38

- Primer TumorSite Page 5 of6

    

MFA/A
Prim

Noted

C35: I5
Rel/newer Initials Date .‘icviewsd'

