UUID: 35F25A99- E6C7- 4748- BBE7- EA4867577A13d

 

TCGA- F2-7276-61A-PR

Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll l

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Case Number :

Diagnosis:

FSA: Liver, Segment 4, excision

— Liver parenchyma with macrovesicular steatosis (approximately
5%) and bile stasis

— Benign bile duct proliferation

— No evidence of malignancy

FSB: Right diaphragm, excision
— Fibroadipose tissue with scattered chronic inflammation
— No evidence of malignancy

FSC: Liver, Segment 7, excision

— Liver parenchyma with macrovesicular steatosis (approximately
5%) and bile stasis and bile duct proliferation

— No evidence of malignancy

FSD: Liver, Segment 2, excision
— Fragment of benign cyst wall
— No evidence of malignancy

FSE: Liver, Segment 3, excision
— Fragment of benign cyst wall
— Hyalinized nodule

— No evidence of malignancy

FSF: Common bile duct margin, removal

— Fibrous tissue with scattered biliary ducts and chronic
inflammation

- No evidence of malignancy

FSG: Pancreatic duct margin, removal
— Fibrous tissue with scattered pancreatic ductules
— No evidence of malignancy

H: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy
— Chronic cholecystitis
— No evidence of malignancy

H

Lymph node, portal, removal
One lymph node negative for malignancy (O/l)

C4

Lymph node, common hepatic, removal
One lymph node positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/1)

|

 

 

K: Pancreas, stomach and small bowel, partial
pancreaticoduodenectomy

Tumor Histologic Type: Ductal adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade: Well—differentiated
Tumor size: 5.5 cm

Tumor site: Head with extension into body

Tumor focal i ty-

Microscopic extent of invasion:
Peripancreatic soft tissues: Present (K8)
Duodenum: Absent

Ampulla: Present (K6)

Other organs or structures: N/A

Lymphovascular Invasion: Present (K16)
Perineural Invasion: Present (K11, K12)

Margins:

Pancreatic neck: Negative

Bile duct: Negative

Posterior pancreatic surface (deep radial margin): Negative but
close; <1mm (K11)

Peripancreatic soft tissues: Negative but close; < 1mm (K14)
Proximal (gastric): Negative

Distal (duodenal): Negative

Regional lymph nodes: (all specimens except part L)
Total number with metastasis: 8
Total number examined: 16

Additional pathologic findings: Acute serositis

Diagnosis of other organs or structures: n/a

AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 pN1

Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information

available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

 

 

L: Mesentery, colon, removal
— One lymph node positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma (1/1)

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section consultation was requested by Dr. on at
from

FSA1: Liver, Segment 4, biopsy
— Bile duct proliferation, benign

FSBl: Diaphragm, right, biopsy
— Fibroadipose tissue with inflammation and atypical cells. No
definite metastatic carcinoma.

FSCl: Liver, Segment 7, biopsy

— Bile duct proliferation with atypia
— Marked inflammation and cholestasis
— No definite metastatic carcinoma

FSDl: Liver, Segment 2, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSEl: Liver, Segment 3, biopsy
— Bile duct proliferation, no tumor seen

FSFl: Common bile duct, margin
— No carcinoma identified

FSGl: Pancreatic duct margin
— No carcinoma identified

Drs. and additional help was received from ; the diagnosis was
delivered to the requesting physician at

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
-year—old with a clinical diagnosis of pancreatic cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are twelve appropriately labeled containers. Containers
A—G are received fresh for frozen section.

 

 

Container A is additionally labeled "liver, Segment 4." The
container holds a yellow cassette that is additionally labeled
FSAl." At frozen section the specimen was described
as measuring 7 x 4 x 2 mm and appeared as a red/tan soft tissue
fragment. The specimen was totally submitted in block FSA1,

Container B is additionally labeled ”right diaphragm.” The
container holds one yellow cassette that is additionally labeled

FSBl.” At frozen section the specimen was described
as measuring 2 x 2 mm and appeared as a red/tan soft tissue
fragment. The specimen was totally submitted as FSBl,

Container C is additionally labeled "Segment 7." The container
holds one yellow cassette that is additionally labeled

FSC1." At frozen section the specimen was described as
three fragments that measured 1 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. The
specimen was totally submitted in block FSC1,

Container D is additionally labeled “Segment 2." The container
holds one yellow cassette that is additionally labeled

FSDl." At frozen section the specimen was described as
three fragments of soft tissue that measured 1 x 0.2 X 0.2 cm in
aggregate. The specimen was totally submitted in block FSDl,

Container E is additionally labeled ”Segment 3." The container
holds one yellow cassette that is additionally labeled '

FSEl." At frozen section the specimen was described as
measuring 1 x 1 x 0.2 cm and appeared as a liver fragment with a
nodule at the center (2 x 2 mm and white). The specimen was
totally submitted in block FSEl,

Container F is additionally labeled "common bile duct margin “
The container holds one yellow cassette that is additionally
labeled FSFl." At frozen section the specimen was
described as measuring 2.4 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm and appeared as a
pink/tan soft tissue fragment. The specimen was totally
submitted into block FSFl,

Container G is additionally labeled “pancreatic duct margin.”
The container holds one yellow cassette that is additionally
labeled ” FSGl.“ At frozen section the specimen was
described as measuring 3 x 3 x 2 mm and appeared as a red/tan
soft tissue fragment that was totally submitted into block FSGl,

 

 

Container H is additionally labeled ”gallbladder.”

Previously opened: No

Measurements: 7 x 3 x 2.4 cm

External surface: Appears pink and smooth with no evidence of
fibrofatty adhesions

Wall thickness: 0.2 cm uniformly

Mucosa: Patchy green color with hemorrhagic appearance; texture
appears velvety

Stones present: No

Other comments: None

Block #: H1, cross section of cystic duct and longitudinal
section of gallbladder wall

Container I is additionally labeled ”portal node." The container
holds one piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures 1.5 x 0.5 x
0.4 cm. The specimen has been bisected and totally submitted
into block I1,

Container J is additionally labeled ”common hepatic node." The
container holds one piece of fibroadipose tissue that measures
1.4 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm. The specimen has been bisected and totally
submitted in block J1,

Container K is additionally labeled ”pancreatic duodenectomy,
short stitch=pancreatic duct, short proline=portal vein margin,
long stitch=common bile duct, long prolinezuncinate margin".

Specimen fixation: Formalin
Specimen type: Pancreaticoduodenectomy

Organs received (Whipple Specimen): Duodenum 17 x 2.2 cm,
stomach 3.2 x 6 x 1 cm, pancreas 3 x 2.3 x 2 cm.

Orientation: This specimen has been previously inked as follows:
yellow/common bile duct, blue/pancreatic margin, black/uncinate,
green/pancreatic body, red/portal vein; short stitch =
pancreatic duct, short stitch = portal vein margin, long stitch
: common bile duct, long stitch : uncinate margin.

Tumor location: Head of pancreas

Gross appearance of tumor: The mass is within the head and body
of the pancreas; the mass is ill—defined and appears yellow/tan
with infiltrative nodular growth; the mass is solid with no
areas of apparent necrosis or hemorrhage.

 

 

 

Tumor dimensions: 5.5 x 3 x 3 cm

Extent of invasion:

Confined/non confined to the pancreas: Grossly confined
Involvement of the ampulla: Absent

Involvement of the duodenum: Absent

Involvement of the bile duct: Absent

Involvement of adjacent vessels: The lesion is close to the
location of the portal vein; there is indefinite involvement by
gross examination.

Spleen (if applicable): Not applicable

Gallbladder (if applicable): Not applicable

Stomach (if applicable): Absent

Surgical margins:

Pancreatic body: Negative, 0.2 cm away

Uncinate (Retroperitoneal): Negative, 0.1 cm away

Common Bile duct: Negative, 0.6 cm away

Proximal margin (stomach): (Stomach), negative, 9.5 cm away
Distal margin (duodenum): (Duodenum), negative, 12.5 cm away
Peripancreatic soft tissues: Negative, 0.4 cm away

Lymph nodes: There are 5 candidate lymph nodes identified.

Two candidate lymph nodes are identified between the duodenum
and the uncinate. The smallest measures 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm and
the largest measures 1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Three candidate lymph
nodes are identified in the fatty tissue surrounding the
stomach. These perigastric lymph nodes range in size from 0.2 x

0.2 x 0.2 cm to 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm.

Other remarkable findings: None

 

 

 

.

Digital photograph taken: No
Tissue submitted for special investigation: Yes

Block Summary:

Inking: : yellow/common bile duct, blue/pancreatic margin,
black/uncinate, green/pancreatic body

K1—K2 — Proximal margin, en face

K3-K4 - Distal margin, en face

K5 — Portal vein margin, en face

K6—K10 — Ampulla of Vater, perpendicular section (common bile
duct located in K10)

K11—K14 — Uncinate margin, perpendicular sections (one section
per cassette)

K15—K23 ~ Pancreatic body margin, perpendicularly sectioned (one
section every 2 cassettes K17—K22)

K24—K25 — Periuncinate lymph nodes, bisected (one lymph node per
cassette)

K26 — Three candidate perigastric lymph nodes (not bisected)

K27 — Duodenum and tumor

K28 — Representative sections of normal duodenum

K29 - Two representative sections of central tumor

Container L is additionally labeled "colon mesentery." The
container holds one piece of tan/yellow fibroadipose tissue that
measures 0.7 x 0.6 X 0.3 cm. The specimen has been bisected and
submitted in block L1,

