 

RIGHT UPPER LOBE AND LYMPH NODES

Clinical Notes:
Right upper lobe mass.
year old female.
revious bronchitis cough and smoker 20 per day.

Four specimens are received:

1: RIGHT UPPER LOBE

Macroscopy:

Specimen is labelled "right upper lobe“ and consists of a lobectomy measuring

150 x 130 x 45 mm when inflated. There is a suture line present; the sutures

are removed and the resection margin inked with black ink. The pleural surface

is largely smooth but is puckered in a small area in the upper medial aspect.

On sectioning through the lung parenchyrna deep to this region of pieural

puckering there is a firm cream nodule present which measures 27 mm in maximum
dimension. The nodule appears to extend to within 1 mm of the pleural surface
macroscopically. The iesion is weli clear of the lateral pieural aspect and of

the bronchial resection margin. The lung parenchyma otherwise shows emphysema,
predominantly towards the apical portion of the lung but no other iesion is

identified. {RS through bronchovascuiar resection margin, 1A; hilar lymph

nodes, 113; tumour with mediai pleural surface, 10-1 E; tumour with lateral

pleural surface, 1F; random section through apical portion 'of lobe, 16; random
section through lower portion of lobe, 1H]. ,

Microscopy:

Sections show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with a
central fibroelastotic scar. it is clear of the bronchial resection margin.

The visceral pleura on the medial aspect is invaded by tumour and there is
apparently focal involvement of the surface by tumour. The tumour is well

clear of the lateral pleurai surface. No lymphatic, vascuiar or perineural
invasion is identified. The hiiar lymph nodes and an intrapulmonary lymph node
show no evidence of malignancy. The adjacent lung tissue shows features of
emphysema. A tumourlet is present in the wall of a bronchus.

2: NUMBER 3 LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:

Specimen is labelled "number 3 lymph node" and consists of a single portion of
fibrofatty tissue measuring 15 x 6 x 4 mm. {BlT, 2A].

3: NUMBER 4 LYMPH NODE

[0 055?!“- OI-t-Pf‘d ‘. r" >0-E 0’ Hi 21>

Page 10f 2

   

4: NUMBER 10 LYMPH NODE

Macroscopy:
Specimen is labelled "number 10 lymph node" and consists of single piece of tan
solid tissue measuring 11 x 10 x 8 mm. [Bisected and BIT, 4A]-

Microscopy-Specimens 2—4:
These lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.

Summary:

Right upper lobectomy:

1: Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 27‘ mm in maximal
dimension.

Visceral pleural invasion.

3 No vascular invasion.

4: No lymph node metastases.

5 Pathological stage T2NOMX.

 

i>ﬁ7rssegoaszs*

