PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY

UUID: BGE65697- SAEs- 4554- SFAA- Dzssarsmar PAGE #: 1
TCGA- OR- 1635- 91A- PR Redacted SEX. F

HIIIIIIIIllllllllllllIIIIIIHlllllllIIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIllllllll open we. a

PROCEDURE: SPHS “

 

Incidental finding of a large right sided adrenal tumor. Stitch on anterior
surface.

9ROCEDURE: SPGD

1. ”Right adrenal and right kidney”

Received in formalin in a large container is a nephrectomy specimen with
attached adrenal mass overall measuring 16.5 x 10 x 6 cm. Yhe superior adrenal
mass is partially encapsulated with a purple‘gray possible fascia on the
anterior aspect. lt is roughened with fibroadipose tissue on the posterior
aspect. A 3.2 x 2.2 cm gray-white plaque is identified on the posterior aspect
of the adrenal to kidney. The specimen has an untrimmed Height of 640 grams.
Posterior aspect is inked black and the anterior is inked blue. The tumor is
partially adhesed to the renal artery. It does not appear to invade the Lumen.
No lymph nodes are identified at the hilum. The specimen is bivalved. The
adrenal mass is 7.2 x 5.5 x 4.7 cm. It is irregular, ill-defined focal areas
partially encapsulated with a bright yellowsorange tissue. The cut surface is
a lobular tan hemorrhagic tissue with focal areas of necrosis that occupy
approximately 15%. The central portion is remarkable for a 4.2 x 3.3 cm cystic
area lined with a gray-white granular tissue. It is devoid of contents. The
adrenal mass compresses and extends to the superior pole of the kidney. A
scant amount of possible normal adrenal gland is identified, 4.2 x 1.1 x 0.2
cm. The adrenal mass has a trinnnd weight of 140 grams. Upon sectioning other
areas are partially surrounded with a rim of yellou~orange possibly normal
adrenal gland. Upon sectioning the area of the aforementioned plaque and area
of necrotic yellow-red possible tumor tissue extends to this region. The 190
gram trimmed kidney is 11 x 7 x 4.5 cm. The cut surface is a pink-tan kidney
parenchyma with a uell~defined corticomedullary junction. No abnormalities are
noted. No lesions are identified. Photographs have been taken.

1A-D. Tumor to anterior capsule.

iE~F. Tumor to posterior plaque.

16‘". Tumor to possible normal adrenal gland.

ilaJ. Tumor to superior pole of kidney.

ix. Vascular and ureter margins.

1LJM. Normal kidney renal sinus upper pole.

VRDCEDURE: 5P!“

ADRENOCORTICAL CARCINOMA LCD '0 * :33

V4 5 ’
T or Size' 7 2 x S 5 4 7 @FC/ 10C) mom, adrenal éD/WL/Cﬂ—j
um . . . x . cm. I 8/ng

5/]?! Mama! glwéwmtex

€74.52
.1») Mae/13

PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY

PAGE 31:: 2

 

 

w _ ‘ sex-.= F
BIRTHDATE: ‘w’ PAT TYPE: ADN éATE:
"a OPER DATE: _ U ”V" “-—
Twnor Weight: 140 grams. :
Capsular Invasion: No. é
Vascular Invasion: No.
Surgical Margins: Negative.
Necrosis: Yes, 15%.
Mitotic Rate: (Hits per 50 high power fields): 35/50 HPF.
Grade: High grade.
Lymph nodes status: N.A.
Extra'adrenal extension: No.
Stage: T2 NX MX
Immunohistochemistry Results: N.A.
PROCEDURE: 3pr ‘ "W

 

1. Right adrenal gland, resection: High grade adrenocortical carcinoma (7.2

cm), margins negative. See template for details.

Right kidney, resection: Unremarkable renal cortex and medulla without

diagnostic abnormality. Negative for neoplasm.

vm«~—M-------w—-
A

— M

 

‘ the signing staff pathologist, have personally

examined and interpreted the slides from this case.

*ir'kilrir-ki‘iwﬁ'iwi'ﬁ'lii‘iﬂik'k

 
 
 

End; 1 g 113:]

thnasls uiscrepanw
Site

 
   
 

HWAA
Pnnr

 
 
     
 

(an I:
Gavlewry anilials

 

 

__ __ .. , I

