SURGECAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:
Kidney, left; nephrectomy:
Tumor Characteristics:
. Histoiogic type: Papiliary renal cell carcinoma.
Tumor site: Lett kidney, lower pole.
. Tumor focaiity: Unifocal.
Tumor size: 3.2 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm.
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney.
. Microsoopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney.
. Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 2 of 4.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.
. Sarcomatoid features: Not identiﬁed.
Surgical Margin Status:
. Surgical margins including ureter, renal vein, renal artery, and soft tissue are negative for tumor.
Lymph Node Status:
. No lymph nodes received with specimen.
Other:
. Nonneoplastic renai parenchyma shows numerous sclerotic glomeruli and mild to moderate arteriosclerosis.
. pTNM stage: pT1a NX.
COMMENTS:
Histologic sections show a tumor within the Ieﬂ lower pole which has a papillary architecture composed of tumor cells with an oncocytic appearance.

Therefore immunohistochemical staining for CD117, vimentin, and cytokeratin 7 is performed on block 1 to exclude an oncocytoma. The tumor is positive
for cytokeratin 7 and vimentin and negative for CD117 supporting a diagnosis of a papillary renal cell carcinoma rather than an oncocytoma.

mpawmgntsmrxa-n

.s

_.x

”—1

 

CLINICAL lNFORMATiON

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: None given
Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptomisadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:
Left kidney

SPECIMEN DATA .

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The consists of a kidney with attached perinephric fat measuring 20.0 x 16.0 x 6.5 cm and weighs 814 grams. There is no adrenal gland attached to the
specimen, The ureter measures 100 cm in length and up to 0.5 cm in diameter. On opening the ureter the mucosal surface is light tan. There are is no
material or iesions identiﬁed within the lumen. The renal artery stump measures 1.5 cm in iength and 0.5 cm in diameter and is grossly unremarkable.
The renal vein stump measures 1.0 cm in length and 1.5 cm in diameter and is aiso grossly unremarkable. At the hilum there are no lymph nodes
identiﬁed. The soﬁ tissue resected margin is yellow to brown tan slightly shaggy with adhesions. The martin is inked. The kidney is bisected and
reveals a circumscribed brown tan hemorrhagic mass within the lower pole measuring 3.2 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm. On sectioning the mass appears grossly
conﬁned to the capsule. There is no lesion into the surrounding perinephric fat identiﬁed. The mass is within 2.2 cm of the deep margin. The renal
cortex is brown tan measuring 0.5 cm displaying a well deﬁned cortical medullaryjunction. No other lesions are identiﬁed. Th y
tan and are uninvolved by the mass. Received with the cmnimen are three cassettes, one green, one yellow, one blue, mam
Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 15 follows: sections from the mass—1 to 4; ureter—5; renal a ,
surroundini uninvolved kidney—7; perpendicular sections taken from the deep margin overiying the mass—B.

 

 

 

