i.

UUID:OEF224F3-DAFD-4312-828E-CE93AA6FE7DA

lliililiiillllllllllllllllllllll I
ll ll lllllllllilililllillllilllll'lifl'iill'lllllilll‘illllllguull"

llllllllliliilllllllllllllilillilllllilllllll'ii‘lllllllllil

 

Surgical Pathology Final Results]

Surgical Pathology Final

CASE NUMBER:
DiAGNOSiS: Adrenal, right (adrenalectomy): Pheochromocytoma, no
convincing vascular or capsular penetration identified, see Note.

NOTE: There are multiple small tumor fragments on the surface of the
periadrenal fat. This probably represents tumor contaminants related to
specimen handling and do not represent extracapsularinvasion of the
fat. The immunohistoohemical staining showed the tumor cells positive
for chromogranin and synaptophysin. 3400 highlights sustentacular
cells.

The immunoperoxidase tests performed here were developed and their

performance characteristics determined by the Specialized Diagnostics

Unit of the Laboratory of PathOIOQy, They have not been cleared or

approved by the US. Food and Dr‘ug‘A’dmi’nistTatEnTThe‘i-"DA has also M“ "‘“m
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. This

laboratory is codified under the Clinical Laboratory improvement

Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity

clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL lNFORMATlON; Brief Clinical History: Pheochromocytome Specimen

Taken For Protocol:

01 ~ Yes Allocate Order to Protocol:

PROCEDURE: Operative Findings: large Redrenal Pcst~0perative
Diagnosis: same
Pre-Operative Diagnosis: pheo

SPEClMENS SUBMlTTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND, RlGHT

GROSS DESCRIPTiON: Received is one container labeled with the
patient’s name, medical record number, and further specified as "right
adrenal gland". Received trash is an adrenalectcmy specimen (to x 5.5 x
2.7 cm), weighing 86.3 gm overall (with the surrounding adipose tissue).
partially surrounded by adipose tissue A mass (5.7 x 3 x 2.7 cm) is
present. The cut surface of the mass is inked in black, bisected,
revealing a light tan, homogeneous cut surface with central necrosis. A
total of 4 x 2 x 0.3 cm tissue, not involving the inked margin is
procured for under sterile conditions, remaining sent to
Pathology Pictures are taken. At Surgical Pathology. the specimen
received matched the above description. Representative sections of the

tumor were submitted in white cassettes . for
permanent processing. Grossly normal adrenal gland was submitted in
white cassette for permanent processing.

Gross description dictated by

No consultants

liar:thistlrizii Pencil; iritotzr,:asi'i-v§l. iiaisiziti'ixn‘m.rd distracts i. presilglwruzi in}; its: fictional z’rsaaA'Act of" ii?“ 101110.

Requested By:i » Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

TCGA-QR-AMU—GlA-PR Redacted
lilil

Smical Pat'X-{glogﬂ ( .
Final Resugsj

Diagnosis D\s
31y Tumot Site D

Prior Makgnancy His’xory
Du‘al/va‘chronou‘ Primary N ,

 

K‘C.‘ LLHI i. Rink/I“, I ; ’1” m1: i H? K 1 i. LL \ x E. \ X i ‘ 1‘) j V X ‘ g $ JOle
‘ 3 ‘ ‘i‘iRL ,Wiux. "U ‘5.:v\ A g‘ H); ‘le H H.)
7! ,2 ‘4 I éa‘ xi, 2 ix. {413, -'\‘s MV'ik” x '5'
x. .» 2‘ V

 

Requested By:
Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

