SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Addendum Present

 

Name:
Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date Received:
Submitting Physician:

Med. Rec #.
Location:

Race:
DOB/Sex:

 

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

A., B. RIGHT FRONTAL LOBE OF BRAIN, TUMOR, BIOPSY REMOVAL:
-- GEMISTOCYTIC ASTROCYTOMA, SEE NOTE.

Note: Mitotic figures are inconspicuous, and Ki-67 labeling index is low. GFAP and vimentin immunostains
demonstrate a spectrum of morphologies ranging from mini-gemistocytes typically seen in oligodendroglial tumors to a

predominant population of large gemistocytic astrocytic tumor cells. Although emistoc ic astroc omas tend to
behave in an aggressive fashion, they are considered Grade II tumors by the An addendum

will be issued pending analysis for deletions in chromosomes 1 and 19.

One or more of the reagents used to perform assays on this specimen MAY have contained components considered to be analyte
specific reagents (ASR's). ASR's have not been cleared or approved by the U.S.Food and Drug Administration. These assa s were
developed and their performance characteristics determined by the Department of Pathology at —
The assays were performed with appropriate positive and negative controls.

Electronically Signed Out By By the signature on this report, the individual or group listed as making the Final Interpretation/Diagnosis certifies

that they have reviewed this case.

lntraoperative Consultation:

A. Touch imprint and Microscopic: Glioma most consistant with oligodendrocytoma. —

Addendum/Procedures:
Addendum

Addendum Diagnosis
{Not Entered}

Addendum Comment

Date Ordered:

Date Completed:
Specimen Source:
Paraffin Block No.:

TUMOR T ISSUE ASSESSMENT

RESULTS

BRAIN TUMOR
A2

Chromosome 1p: Intact, aneusomic

Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete:
Date Reported:

Chromosome 19q: Intact, eusomic
Quantitative FISH results

1p36:3.9
lq25:3.5
1p36/1q25 ratio: 1.1

l9ql3:2.7
l9ql3: 2.9
19q13/19p13 ratio: 0.9

INTERPRETATION

1p intact: A majority of nuclei showed similar numbers of lp36 and qu5 signals. There is no
evidence of allelic loss on the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p).

19q intact: A majority of nuclei showed similar numbers of l9q13 and l9p13 signals. THere is no
evidence of allelic loss of 19q.

Allelic loss at one locus does not necessarily predict the presence of alterations at other loci
on the same chromosome, i.e. FISH may not detect partial allelic loss. FISH may not detect
allelic losses if there is loss of one allele and replication on the allele.

Comment:

Several days after unstained slides from block A2 were received, additional unstained slides from
block B1 were received. This was discussed with — on 2011. The unstained slides from
block B1 will not be stained and will be returned.

Allelic loss on chromosome 1p has been shown to correlate with with chemoresponsiveness and long
progression—free surival in some gliomas. This correlation is stronger when there is concomitant
allelic loss on 19q. An association of chemoresponsiveness and/or long progression—free survivl
with allelic loss on 19q in the absence of loss on 1p has not been established. In patients with
1p/19q loss,

Method:

The integrity of the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p) and long arm of chromosome 19 (19q) was
evaluated with interphase florescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on formalin—fixed paraffin
embedded tissue sections using locus—specific probes target (lp36, l9q13) and reference probes
(1q25,19p13) (Abbott Meloecular/Vysis, des Plaines, IL). The analysis was performed on areas of
glial neoplasm and only atypical nuclei with two or more reference probe signals were counted.
Reported quantitavtive data represents an average of 40 nuclei. Loss is defined as a ratio of
less than or eugual to 0.7./ Aneusomy is defined as a mean of greater that or equal to 3.0 for
the reference probe signals (1q25, l9pl3).

ANALYTE SPECIFIC REAGENT (ASR) DISCLAIMER
NOTE: One or more of the reagents used to perform assays on this specimen MAY have contained

components considered to be analyte specific reagents (ASRs). ASRs have not been cleared or
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. These assays were developed and their
performance characteristics determined by the A

copy of their report is on file in the Department of Anatomic Pathology of

Electronically Signed Out By —

Clinical History:
'Right frontal brain tumor

Specimens Submitted As:
ATHGHTFRONTALTUMOR

B:BRAIN TUMOR

Gross Description:
A.Received fresh for intraoperative consultation, labeled with the patient's name and hospital number, is a 3 x 1.5 x 0.5

cm multiple tan white friable pieces of soft tissue.A portion of the specimen is submitted for frozen section.The
specimen is submitted entirely in 2 cassettes.

B: Received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and number, are 4 irregular, opaque white to tan-brown, soft,
cerebriform tissue fragments ranging from 2.0 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm to 10.0 x 6.0 x 4.5 cm. Representative sections are
submitted in 6 cassettes.

Summary of cassettes

A1 FS

A2 remainder of specimen

