 

 
  

Surgical Pathology Report -TCGA " DU _ 5852

a en:
Received:
Reported:

  
   

CLINICAL HISTORY

the patient - _ wttt —-

Currently

the patient has a lucent, circumscribed lesion in the parahippocampal
gyrus

and hippocampus, which on FLAIR involves nearly the entire temporal
lobe.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES

Epilepsy

operation/Specimen: A: Brain,medial temporal tumor, biopsy
B: Brain, posterior tumor, biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

A.. Brain, medial temporal tumor, biopsy: Anaplastic oligoastrocytoma
(was .

Grade III) (see comment}.

.B. -Brain, posterior tumor, biopsy: Anaplastic oligoastrocytoma {WHO
Grade
III) (see comment).

COMMENT

Permanent sections are in keeping with agreement of the frozen section
diagnoses. SeCtions of A. and B. show a proliferation of moderately
pleomorphic round to oval and occasionally angular cells Infiltrate
cortex

shows perineuronal tumor cell satellitosis. Scattered mitotic figures
are

identified. Vascular proliferation and necrosis are not seen.
Immunohistochemical stains performed on part B. show positive GFAP
staining of

reactive astrocytes and occasional tumor cells, some of which show a
thin rim

of perinuclear staining. Corresponding — slides for
_ this '
case are also reviewed.

 

 

IOverall the tumor is most consistent with an anaplastic
oligoastrocytoma, with
the oligodendroglial component being dominant.

The Ki 6? labeling index is up to approximately 12%. Positive and
negative
controls show appropriate immunoreactivity.

Molecular studies show that the tumor is negative for 1p,l9q LOH and

I positive
for IMGMT promoter methylation (see procedure addenda below).

 

PROCEDURES /A'DDENDA
Loss of Heterozygosity 1p, 19q Assa

Date Ordered: _ Date Reported: ' _

Interpretation

'NEGATIVE: Allelic loss on chromosome arm 1p and chromosome arm 19q is
NOT

detected

Informative loci are: D181592, D13552, D18468, D181612, D18496,

PLA2G4C,
D19S606 and DlSSll82

Results—Comments

Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block.

_ DNA extracted from a corresponding blood specimen was used as normal
reference

control.

TEST DESCRIPTION: Allelic loss is assessed by PCR assay in Normal DNA
(baseline}/-Tumor DNA pairs using 3 markers at both 1p and 19g. The 3
markers

on 1p are D18548, D181592, and D18552 (with D18468, DISl612, and
A D18496 as ~

backup markers) and the 3 markers on 19q are D198219, D19S412, and
PLA2G4C

(with D198606 and D1981182 as backup). All markers are microsatellites
(2 or 4

nt repeats) except PLA2G4C which is a minisatellite (26 nt repeat)
polymorphism. The markers were selected based on heterozygosity score,
amplicon size, and ease of interpretation. The backup markers are used
if the

first line markers at that chromosome arm are uninformative or
-Ioltherwise

A"

 

.ambiguous in their interpretation. LOH at all informative loci on each
chromosomal arm represents the typical finding in oligodendrogliomas

with 1p
and 19q deletion.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a

stand—alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance

characteristics determined by the — as
‘ ' required by - h I regulations. It has not been cleared or

approved for
specific uses by the U. S Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

only in
t-he context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

TECHNICAL SENSITIVITY: The presence of >15% non—neoplastic cells in
the sample
may preclude the detection of allelic loss.

Date Ordered: — Date Reported: _

Interpretation
POSITIVE: Methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

Results—Comments.
Testing performed on DNA extracted from tumor paraffin block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT

promoter
7 have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.

. As sessment of

MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA
followed

by real-time'PCR-amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and
unmethylated DNA

sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by

serial
dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and

. WaS.

' .assessed to be 1% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated

' DNA.

Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the
sample, or

eXtensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated
MGMT , - -

promoter sequences.

 

 

 

 

FDA COMMENT: "The above data are not to be construed as the results
from' a' , '

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance
" characteristics determined by the — laboratory as
required by - I _. It has not been cleared or approved

for
specific uses by the U. s Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
' results are -

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
only in

the.context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

INTRA—OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A‘: ‘ , '
Brain,medial temporal tumor, biopsy: Cerebral cortex, and white

matter, not
diagnostic. There is not lymphoma. Firm blood clot, grossly. More

tissue
will be submitted. ‘ - Touch preparation smears performed at -

andIIresults reported to the Physician of Record. _

B_-. . .

Posterior tumor, biopsy:
. l. Hypercellular tissue, small cells {R/O glioma, other...) -
Touch '

preparation smears performed at — and results
reported to

the Physician of Record.

2;_ Hypercellular tissue, slight atypia {R/O infiltrative process,
_ glioma? n

1 other) More tissue will be availablel -. Frozen section performed

 
  
 

and results reported to the Physician of Record.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A.

“Medial temporal tumor,” received fresh, three fragments, 0.8 cm in
. Iaggregate.

-Semi firm, tannish—white. In total, A1.
3-1.. :‘ =
"Poeterior tumor," received fresh, multiple fragments, 1.4 x 1.5 x 0.9
cm in '

aggregate. Semi firm, tannish—grey, focally hemorrhagic. Fragment of
leptomeninges with engorged vessels. In total, Bl—B3, frozen tissue

B4.

 

 

1CD49(s): ' I.
'345111.345-l1"
Billing Fee Code(s):

    

. Histo Data i ,I _.
jPart A: fBrain,medial temporal tumor, biopsy

 

Taken: Received:
_Stain/cnt . m I BlocHl Ordered Comment
H/E x 1 . 1

TPS H/E x 1' ‘ 1

Part BI Brain, posterior tumor, biopsy

Taken: _ Received:

Stain/cnt Block Ordered Comment
FS'H/E x 1
mGFAP—DA X l
H/E x 1
LOH—Icurls x l
MGMT—curls x,1
MIBIl~DA X l
-TPS Triage x 1
H/E x l

H/E x l
mGFAP—DA x 1?
H[E-x 1
MIBIPDA x 1

maewNHI—IHHHHI—A

 

I*#* End of Report ***

 

