i‘rim

Case is

 

Ref. Source:

Clinical Diagnosis 8. Histog:

Date of Procedure:

Dale of Receipt:
Dale of Report:
Account #:
Billing Type:
Additional Copy lo:

INPATIENT

Bilateral thyroid nodule left nodule FNA positive papillary thyroid cancer.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Left paratracheal lymph node. excision (fs)

2,: Rule out left lower parathyroid (fs)

3: Left paratracheal lymph node # 2, excision (fs)
4: Additional left parairacheal tissue, excision

5: Delphian node, excision

6: Thyroid. total thyroidectomy

UUID: 752F974A- 53AA- 4946- 9994- E4E49EEE5AEeCd
TCGA- DJ- AZPO- 61A- PR

III II II I III I II I III II I IIII II II I IIIIIII III I II I I III I I II IIII III ”II“
||I|I||II|I|I IIII|||||||II|II|IIII|I|||||||I||IIIIIIII|III|II III

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Left paratracheal lymph node, excision (fs):
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2

 

2. Parathyroid, left lower, excision (is):
- Fragment of benign unremarkable parathyroid gland
3. Left paratracheal lymph node # 2. excision (ts):

Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1

 

Additional left paralracheai tissue, excision:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue

 

Delphlan node, excision:
Lymph Node Dissection:
Benign lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1

 

Thyroid, total thyroidectomy:
Tumor Type:
Two foci of papillary microcarcinoma

Histologic Grade:
Well differentiated

MA/J’j'

a [a x zﬂ’F’L/IMIWX 3460/}

5172‘ WK 1‘” 5 (L73. 67 A
19/3’///
W

 

Page 1 of 4

Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Location:
Left lobe
Right lobe

Tumor Size:
6 mm in left lobe and 2 mm in right lobe

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins: M. ...
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Microscopic foci present

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits chronic iymphocytic thyroiditis
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
One benign lymph node is identifed

 

lATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT I HAVE

REVIEWED AND APPROVED nus REPORT.
*** Report EIe'cIEIonicaIlly Signed Out "*"

 

Gross Description:

1 .The specimen is received fresh, labeled "left paratracheal lymph node“. it consists of two pieces of tan pink soft tissue measuring
0.3 and 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.

Summary of Sections:
F SC~ frozen section control

a.

2.The specimen is received fresh. labeled “Rule out left lower parathyroid ". It consists of ten soft tissue measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2
cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.

Summary of Sections:
FSC- frozen section control

3.The specimen is received fresh, labeled “left parairacheal lymph node #2". It consists of tan soft tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3
cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen section.

 

Page 2 of 4

v,xr._

Summary of Sections:
FSC- frozen section control

4). The specimen is received which fresh, labeled "Additional left paratracheal tissue" and consists of a 1.3 x 1.1 x 0.3 cm
fragment of ten soft tissue. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U - undesignated '

5). The specimen is received fresh. labeled "Deiphian node" and consists of a single lymph node measuring 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm.
The lymph'node is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U — lymph node

6). The specimen is received fresh. labeled "total thyroid stitch marks left lobe" and consists of a thyroid weighing 20.5 g. The
right lobe measures 4.6 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm , the left lobe measures 3.2 x 2.8 x 1.4 Cm and the isthmus measures 2.6 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm.
The external surface is covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black, and the anterior is
inked blue. Sectioning reveals a well-circumscribed tan-yellow firm nodule measuring 0.6 x 0.6 x 0 .6 cm, in the left mid to upper
lobe. Sections through the remaining tissue reveal faint tan—white papillary foci in the right lobe but otherwise unremarkable. The
remaining thyroid parenchyma is red tan and beefy. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for TPS. The
remaining tissue is serially sectioned and representatively submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - left lobe the nodule
RL - right lobe

LL - left lobe

is ~ isthmus

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: Left paratracheal lymph node, excision (fs)
Block Sect. Site PCs

1 FSC 1
meme”

Part 2: Rule out left lower parathyroid (fs)

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 FSC 1

Part 3: Left paratracheal lymph node it 2, excision (is)
Block , - ' sect. Site . PCs

1 FSC . ’ 1

Part 4: Additional left paratracheal tissue, excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 1

Part 5: Delphlan node, excision

Block Sect. Site P03
1 U 1

Part 6: Thyroid, total thyroidectomy

 

Page 3 of 4

Block Sect. Site P65

1 i8 1
3 LL 3
2 LN 2
3 RL 3

Intraoperative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

1. Frozen section diagnosis: left paratracheal lymph node (is): benign lymph node4
< Permanent diagnosis: same

2. Frozen section diagnosis: rule out left lower parathyroid (fs): parathyroid tissue
Permanent diagnosis: same

3. Frozen section diagnosis: left paratracheai lymph node # 2 (is): benign lymph node ,,
Permanent diagnosis:

 

Page 4 of 4 END OF REPORT

