(Specimen Collected:

UUID: 9F93FBDF-8086-4140-9093-122D60125026c

geeeeetmﬁeefﬁpie9ee
KESTOPATHQLOGY REPORT

I”
REQUEST DETAELS I“
Gastric adenooa. Total gostrectomy. m

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
1. Specimen.labelled total gastrectomy. A total gastreotomy
eoecimen including stomach measuring 160mm in length and 100mm in
diameter, distal oesophagus lﬂmm in length and 25mm diameter,
proximal duodenum 10mm in length and 25mm diameter, and greater
omentum 500x150x15mm, The stomach is opened along the greater
curVe, revealing an ill—defined. indureted plaque in the cardia,
overlying the lesser curve, appxoximately 35x35mm. The tumour
appears to cross the gastro—oesophageal ﬁnnction, but is centred on
the stomach. On sectioning, the well is firm and.pale. The serosal
surface appears normal with no puekering-identified. This lesion
extends close to the proximal resection margin, but is well clear of
the_distal resection margin. A second lesion is identified.in the
body of the stomach, in the greater curvature. approximately 50mm
from the gastro~oesophageal junction. This is a firm white nodule
within submucosa, covered by apparently normal mucosa, measuring
”mm in diameter. The remainder of the gastric mucosa shows fine
a.anolarity. but is otherwise unremarkable. the oesophageel mucosa
is pale grey and shiny. with no lesion identified. The duodenal
mucosa is normal. Block 1.1 to 1.4 serial TS through the tumour
over the lesser curve, including qastro—oesophogeal junction and
proximal resection margin, 1.5 ﬁurther section tumour immediately
adjacent to gastroioesophageal junction, 1.6 distal resection
margin, 1.? separate nodule greater curve, l.8 through to 1.13 are
possible lymph nodes taken from the-adjacent fat, 1.14 and 1.15
representative sections-from adjacent omentum, 1.16 oesophagus
inmediately adjacent to 5tapled,marqln, 1.17 tumour with serosal
surface, 1.18 serosal margin from lesser onentum oier tumour, 1.19
farther sections mural nodule greater curve, 1 20 - 1.23 lymph nodes
from lesser curve, from oroximal to distal, 1.24~3.25 lymph nodes
from greater curve. See attached photograph for details.
2. Specimen labelled anaetomotio donut (proximal}. Segment of
oesophageal wall measuring 12mm in diameter. Serielly sectioned and
all processed in 2.1
3, Specimen labelled-anestomotic donut {ﬁletal}. Segment of bowel
wall measuring 20x15mm. Serially sectioned and all processed in 3.1.
A Specimen labelled splenic artery lymphatic tissue. Fatty tissue
lsuring 30x15x10mm. Serially sectioned and all processed in 4-1
and 4.2.
5. Specimen labelled common hepatic artery lymph node. Fatty tissue
measuring 40x30x10mm. Serially sectioned and all processed in 5.1
'and 5.2.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

1, Sections show a large, extensively ulcerated tumour centred in
the proximal stomach, but crossing the gastro-omsophageal junction
and extending into-distal oesophagus. The tumour is a poorly
differentiated adenocaroinoma, consisting predominantly of sheets of
epithelioid cells with large, markedly atypical nuclei, vesicular
chromatin, grominant nucleoli and moderately abundant pale
eosinophilic cytoplasm. Some-cells have a signet ring cell
morphology. Immunohistochemical staining for S~cadherin has been
performed; the tumour cells are negative tor this marker. Very
focally (1.4), the tumour shows glandular diflerentiation with
irregular glands surrounded by deemoplestio ottoma. There is an
aosociated patchy, but focally denSe lymphoolasmacytic infiltrate
with lymphoid follicle formation. adenocaroinoma invades through
the muscularis propria of stomach and into leeeer curve fat, but
there is no involvement of Seroeel surface. The tumour extensively

TCGA- RD- ABNS- 91A- PR

IIHH IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllﬂllllllllellllllllleal
ll llllIlllllllllll“lllllllllllllllllllllllll
lllllllllllllllllllllIIIII|||l||||||I||||||

 

Ldermines oesophageal squamous mucosa, and invades through the
gesophageal wall and into adventitial fat, but is narrowly clear of
the radial resection margin. However. there is tumour present at
the oesophageal resection margin adjacent to the staple line, in the
plane of submucosa. The distal resection margin is clear of tumour.

Eooi of lymphovascular and perineural invasion are identified.
@here is metastatic carcinoma within two of thlrty~one (31) lymoh
nodes retrieved from the lesser curve: ten lymph nodes from the
greater curve show no evidence of malignancy. No extracapsular
extension'by tumour is seen.

The adjacent gastric mucosa shows moourately denae chronic gastritis
with focal activity; ﬁelicobacter bacteria are.not identified. No
intestinal metaplasia is seen, either within oesophageal or gastric
mucosa. The oesophageal and duodenal mucosa is unremarkable.
Within the gastric wall, there are two intramural nodules
identified: The first of these {block 1.?) in a.circumscribed
nodule 15mm in diameter, composed of interlacing iascicles of
spindled cells with elongate ovoid nuclei and moderately abundant
pale cytoplasm, sometimes with perinuclear vaouolation. There is no
necrosis and mitotic figures are infrequent <3 per 50 high~power
fields). Immunostains show diffuse lmmunoreaetivity of spindled
cells for o-kit (C011?) and CDBé, whilst Staine for 8100 protein,
desmin and EMA are negative. This is a benign gastrointestinal
atromal tumour (GIST), clear of resection margins. The second
nodule is withio submucosa and musoolaris ropria and measures 8mm
diameter (block 1.5). This comprises interlacing fascicles of
..&ologically uniform spindled cells possessing elongate ovoid
nuclei and moderately abundant eosinophilic, sometimes fibrillary
oytoplaSm. There is no oytologio atypia, no necrosis is seen and no
mitotic ﬁiquree are identified. Immunostaina show diffuse
immunoreactivity for desmin and smooth muscle .io. whilst the
apindled cells are negative for 310% protein, owed, o—kit (CD117)
and EMA. The features are of a banlgn lelomyoma, and this lesion is
olear of margins.
2. Sections Show pieces of oesophageal wall lined by unremarkable
squamous epithelium. No glandular mucosa, Tateetlnal metaplasia or
malignancy is identified.
3. Sections show pieces of small intestinal wa'l ahowlnq no evidence
of malignancy. .
4. Sections show adipose tissue. No lymph node parenchyma is
identified and there.ia no evidence of malignancy.
5. Sections Show two small lymph nodes within adioose tissue. There
is no evidence of metastatic carcinnma or other malignancy.

 

SYNOPTIC REPORT * CARCINOMA OF OESOPHAGQGﬁSTRIC JUNCTlON
P ecimen type: Total gastreotomy.

-MOur site: Junctional, Siewert type-III.
Tumour type: Adenocarolnoma.
Tumour grade: Poorly differentiated,
Depth of invasion: Subserosa.
Margins: Tumour is present adjaoent 30 the atapie line at the
proximal resection margin oi the main specimen, but no tumour is
seen within separately submitted tissue from the proximal donate
The distal margin is clear of tumour.
Lymphovascular invasion: Present.
Lymph nodes: Metastatic carcinoma within two oi forty-three lymph
nodes.
Other:
— Moderate chronic gastritis with mild aorlmity; Relicobacter
bacteria are not identified;
~ No intestinal metaplasia identiﬁ‘ee, either within oesophagus or
stomach;
- Gastro»intestinal atromal tumour {GIST} o‘ stomach, 15mm
diameter, clear of margins:
— Leiomyoma of stomach, 8mm diameter, clear or margins.

DEAGNOSIS
1~5. Total gastrectomy, proximal and distal donuts, and common

9aorly different ated adanocarcinoma of

apatic artery lymph node:
gastro-Qesoyhageal junction (Siewart typg 11:}, invading ta

subsarosa, clear of proximal and distai maxgins, with metastatic
carcinqma in two of forty—three Lymgh nodes {9?2N1Mx]: moderate
chronic gastritis with mild activity, witheut intestinal metaplasia;

gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumcux {G STE 15mm diameter, clear
of margins; gastric leiomyoma, 8mm diameter, claar of margins.

m 7’55, d1 mmfw

TCEH
5mm, W *3?“ 6%

[wife Luf—M/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

triteria
Siagnusis Dzsclepancv .
m; Tumor Site Discrepancy | 9;
“PM Distrepancy _. I
Erior Malignancy History ‘ /
Sal/511‘s!" nous inmary Noted
; ' ' - 1 I gamuAme

lb .
kuawerlmuals‘ l: R-‘wzwed: -
__..__—_

' ‘ : !

 

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

I

 

Case Quantity Control Form campietedfor the submitted case;

 

mm The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Farm shouldbe completed when thevpathologic diagnosis
documented on the initiat pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source. Site. (T85): T55 Identiﬁer: - __ 'I‘SS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: .
Compieted By (inwrviewer Name on Opeaninica): _ Completed Date: __
ﬁagnosis Information
#~ Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
i’rovide the diagnosis] histologic subtypeiﬁs) documented on
Patholo ic Dia nosis . i i x « ’ . ' the initial pathology report forthis case.“ the histology for
1 Provid 9% 011 “Em“ (A: WMWWQ ‘3 this case is mixed, provide' all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
. . . .‘ Provide’the hismlogic features selected on the TCGA Case
Histologw features of , N . .
2 the sampie provided 5% {£72. a/L (.3 my? LL»! 71.0 WW}; I Quainty Control Form compteted forth“ case
for TCGA as reﬂected 4 ~ ., w
' a , - ELL 3 A
ontheCQCF. i ir‘rmm JPC

 

 

 

ﬁscrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

3 Provide the reason for *

the discrepancy a

between the pathology 5 “jg {11 3-41.. y: 1534?"

report and the TCGA k 1'

Case Quality Controi 5 pg}? {@vgj “:44 #3 WC»
Form. 9‘

«TQM WT.“

v».

Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
diagnosis selected on the TCGA‘Case Quality Contra! Form“

 

Name of’I‘SS Reviewing
4 Pathologist or
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

Provide the name ofthe pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGAL

 

 

I acknowledge that Mohave information pro vMed by my Institution is true and come: and has Been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Patﬁoloﬁiétm Biorepository Director

I acknowledge that the WW]: "Jed by my Institution is true and correctand has been quality co'ntroltect The Attending Paulolaglst or the

Date

Depqruuennmdm on has been Informed or is aware of the above discrepancy In diagnoses.

 

w

PHIWIHVESUgHEOI mgua LU! 3

Date

 

 

 

 

