 

UUID:115SBB7C-334D-40AC-9964-CF87A1CR6Ee756ac
TCGA- SS-ABJY- 01A- PR

Patient: F Patholog #: —
Med. Record. No.: Age Date of Proceydure:

Date of Birth: Sex: M Date Received:

Submitted by:
Report also to:
”01) {)6

.L.
DIAGNOSIS: . SW N53 906 I/é’
541i ©Uum N68 dram
SPECIMEN

Specimen type: Left radical orchiectomy 94A) ’/ 17/ I ‘7’

TUMOR

Histologic type: Seminoma
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 3.5cm
Tumor focality: Multifocal
Involvement of rete testis: Present
Venous/lymphatic invasion: Absent
Extent of direct tumor invasion: No direct tumor extension beyond testis
Additional ﬁndings: lntratubular germ cell neoplasia
MARGINS

All margins negative for tumor

LYMPH NODES
Cannot be assessed

SERUM TUMOR MARKERS
S3: LDH >10 x nl or HCG >50.000 or AFP >10,000

STAGING (AJCC)
PrimaryTumor: pT1
Lymph Nodes: pNX
Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

 

Pathology Report

 

CLINICAL INFORMATION:

Left testis mass. Also palpable abdominal/retroperitoneal mass, likely metastasis.
Serum tumor markers:

LDH > 2500 IUIL

hCG 65 U/L

AFP pending.

Pathology Report
Page 1 of 2

Patient — MRN:_ _
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED:

Left testicle and cord. , ; research specimen.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
Received in formalin is a 76.2-gram radical orchiectomy specimen with 6.0 x 4.2 x 3.2 cm testis. 5.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm
epididymis and 18.5 x 2.0 cm spermatic cord. The testis is enveloped by a thin and membranous tunica vaginalis
which retracts with ease. The tunica albuginea is smooth and pink-white. The testicular parenchyma is largely
occupied by two masses. The more superior mass measuring 3.0 x 2.8 x 2.1 cm is multinodular and tan-gray with
extensive necrosis. The mass extends to but does not penetrate through the tunica albuginea. The second mass
involves the inferior portion of the testis. measures 3.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm and has a solid. uniformly smooth, tan-pink
cut surface. The interior pole mass lies slightly more posterior than the interior pole mass. adjacent to the rete
' ‘ testis. The surrounding parenchyma is spongy and pink-brown. The epididymis Is unremarkable. The spermatic
cord is'unremarkable. There is nomacroscopic involvement of the spermatic cord by tumor. The specimen is
Dhotoaranhed. Tissue is collected from each mass along with normal testicular parenchyma for the

. _ ' Sections submitted: A1 -A2 —- partially necrotic mass. superior testis: A3 - section representing
interface between the two masses; A4—A6 -— mass of inferior testis to include rete testis; A7 - normal testis and
epididymis; A8 - proximal spermatic cord; A9 — mid spermatic cord; A10 - distal spermatic cord margin.

lmmunohlstochemietry Results

Forrnalin-fixed, parafﬁn-embedded tissue is utilized. Tissue sections are incubated with the following antibodies. Controls stain
appropriately. Complete procedural methodology is available upon request Results indicated below

Material: Block A6

For: Comment

 

Nm' "'- n-r'r‘mrice chMedstics at all immunohlstochemlcal stains cited In this report were determined by the

as part of an ongoing quality assurance program and in compliance with federally mandated reguiadons
drawn from the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA ‘88). Some of these tests may rely on the use or ‘malyte speciﬁc
reagents" and have not been cleared or approved by the US. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has detennined that such clearance or
approval is not necessary. Nevertheless. federal rules conceming the medical use of anslyto specific reagents require that the following
disclaimer be attached to this report. These test: an: ”and Mr clinical numoses. and Mould not be recorded as investigadonat or iorreseerch.
The Immunohr'stmhemistry laboratory at : certiﬁed by the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services (formerly HCFA) as a high complexity laboratory under CLIA '88. .

Slides were microscopically examined by the pathologist.

' rforrn y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Diagnosis DEcrcpencv ":7‘1
Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy f
HIM ' pane: — f
H.—- w
. _m I LIISQUI‘JJI‘IID ’ v” --
1 we Renaud: I] ,‘3 _
__....._4 M
- . . I l ' . I

Pathology Report
Page 2 of 2

 

