Surg Path Final Report _ - -

' Final Report "

* Final Report *

 

SURG PATH FINAL REPORT
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Collected:
Accession:
Physician:
PROCEDURE
Right thoracotomy, right lobectomy.
SPECIMEN:
A. Right upper lobe. *Check bronchial stump for margins.
B. Lymph node #10. C. Lymph node #7.
HISTORY

Lung cancer.

GROSS
A. Specimen received in fresh for frozen section labeled as "right
upper lobe-check bronchial margin" consists of lobe of the lung
weighing 270 grams and measuring 18 x 8 x 5 cm. Bronchial margin is
processed for frozen section.

After initial fixation the specimen is re-examined. The maximal
diameter of the tumor is 7.7 cm and is immediately beneath a
puckered but

apparently intact overlying pleural surface that is opposite this
side of the bronchial resection margin. The distance from the
bronchial resection margin to the nearest portion of the tumor is
about 1 cm. On cut surface, the tumor is mostly pale white, flecked
with gray and black with some mucoid material and foci of necrosis.
Multiple staple lines are present pulling together portions of the
pleura along the resection margin of the hilum and adjacent tissues.
On further inspection, some of the tumor appears to come very close
to the stapled margins in the area of the hilar portion and such
areas are marked with blue dye to aid in identification in sections.
I do not see tumor actually reaching the surface, but it may be very
near. All staple lines are trimmed and the closest soft tissue
margin, which is very near the bronchial resection margin is sampled
as two pieces in block A2 which represent also tumor that is closest
to the bronchial resection margin. Possible bronchial lymph nodes
are taken in block A3. Additional major bronchi and blood vessels
near the margin are taken in block A4. Neoplasm nearest the
bronchial end is taken as blocks A5 and A6. The neoplasm just
beneath the puckered area of the pleura is taken in blocks A7 and
A8. Additional neoplasm is taken in blocks A8 and A9, including
areas of overlying pleura. Uninvolved portions of the lung appear

Printed by:
Printed on:

Page 1 of 3
(Continued)

 

Surg Path Final Report _ I -

'FinalReport" 7 7 ' ’

emphysematous are taken in blocks A11 and A12.

In summary, this is a large neoplasm in the long occupying a large
portion of tissue removed with tumor growing just beneath or perhaps
into the pleura, but not apparently going through it. At the hilar
aspect tumor comes very close to some of the soft tissue margins,
but we know the bronchial resection margin is negative. Also,
available peribronchial lymph nodes are small, but dark and are not
grossly involved. 4

B. "Lymph node #10." Multiple pieces of pale tan to off~white and
focally red-brown tissues range from 4—10 mm across. -

C. "Lymph node #7." Multiple pieces of brown-black lymph node
tissue range from 6-12 mm across. The largest pieces are bisected
and trisected. Bits

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

Right upper lobe bronchial mariin negative for tumor. Dr. -5

called for diagnosis at

MICROSCOPIC
Performed.

DIAGNOSIS
A. Right upper lobe, lobectomy:

Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated (7.7 cm in greatest
dimension), invading visceral pleural. Bronchial margins are
negative for tumor. Lymphovascular invasion is positive for tumor.
Multiple lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

B. Lymph node 10, biopsy:
Multiple fragments of lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

C. Lymph node #7, biopsy:
Multiple fragments of lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

COMMENT
LUNG CARCINOMA SUMMARY:
SPECIMEN: Lobe.
PROCEDURE: Lobectomy.
SPECIMEN INTEGRITY: Intact.
SPECIMEN LATERALITY: Right.
TUMOR SITE: Right upper lobe.
TUMOR SIZE: 7.7 cm.
TUMOR FOCALITY: Unifocal.
HISTOLOGY TYPE: Adenocarcinoma.
HISTOLOGY GRADE: Moderately differentiated.

Printed on: (Continued)

Surg Path Final Report

'FinaIReport' 7

 

VISCERAL PLEURA INVASION: Positive.

MARGINS: Bronchial margins are negative for tumor.
LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION: Positive.
LYMPH NODES: Negative for tumor.

PATHOLOGIC TNM (AJCC Seventh Edition): T3 N0 MX.

_reviewed the case and concurs with the diagnosis.

Completed Action List:

Type:

Date:

Status:

Title:
Encounter info:

 

Printed by: Page 3 of 3
Printed on: (End of Report)

