UUID: E4B€|86C23- “DZ—““8081“-357E98560FBeA

acted

Illll|||l|l|l||||||l|||||
m”PIH'l'IIlFlIIIII||||l|||l|||l|l|||||||

"Additional Copy to:

- “an. Hau- s.-.

Clinical Diagnosis 8: History:
Biopsy-proven papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Right paratracheai lymph nodes (is)
2: Left neck dissection level 3

3: Left neck dissection level 4

4: Delphian lymph node

5: Total thyroid

6: Central compartment neck nodes .

 

DIAGNOSIS: ’
1. Right paratracheal lymph nodes (ts):
Part # 1
Lymph Node Dissection.
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.8cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.8 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identified

 

2. Left neck dissection level 3: ‘ ' ' v“ " 2'
Part# 2 ““ roe—0'5

 

Lymph Node Dissection: _ .
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma Puth- CW, P‘PMWI Mi f2"ab
Number of lymph nodes examined: 1
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1 WCF- “WNW , PAP' M W M WWW
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1cm. 3344/3
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.9 cm.
Extranodal extension is'not identiﬁed $.17, ; lW‘dl No; (573 ,9
3. Left neck dissection level 4: ”ﬁn/"L
Part # 3 ‘
Lymph Node Dissection: but attic/Upped») W
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma 55111: +4! at! “My“
Number of lymph nodes examined: 9
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 1 PW 775«
Size of the lamest ymph node involved by tumor: 0.8cm. 1,, [371‘L

 

 

Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.5 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed

 

 

Page 1 of 5 .3

 

4. Delphian lymph node:

 

Part # 4
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 2
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 2
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.3cm.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.1 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identiﬁed
5. Total thyroid:
Part # 5
Tumor Type: ‘
Multifocal papilalrycarcinoma. classical and microcarclnoma types
Histologic Grade:
Well differentiated ,m-
Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed
Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed
Tumor Location:
Left lobe and isthmus
Tumor Size:
The tumor foci greatest size range from less than 0.1 to 1.4 cm
Tumor Encapsulation: W A

Partially and non-encapsulated focl

Blood Vessel Invasion:
Not identified

Extrathyrold Extension:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Tumor is present at’lnked and cauterlzed posterior margin

Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits nodular hyperplasia
Parathyroid Glands:

identified

one unremarkable

 

Lymph Nodes:
Metastatic papillary carcinoma involves one of three lymph nodes W3). The lymph node involved by metastasis
and the focus of metastasis measure 0.1 cm in greatest size. There is no extracapsular extension.

 

6. Central compartment neck nodes:
Part # 6
Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 9

 

Page 2 of5

Date Reported:

A dendum Dia nests

2. Left level 3 lymph nodes; dissection:

- The remainder of the specimen was submitted and an additional six lymph nodes are identiﬁed and one of those shows

metastatic papillary carcinoma (1/6). The lymph node measures 0.8 cm in greatest size and the metastatic focus measures 0.2 cm
in greatest size. No extranodal extension identified in that lymph node.

 

lntrao rative Consultation' , . .
e % ,.

1. Right paratracheai lymph nodes (fs): Metastatic papillary carcinomﬂ AH .--
Permanent Section: same

 

 

 

Page 5 of5 END OF REPORT

 

 

Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 7 .
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 0.9cm. .
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 0.9 cm.

Extranodal extension is identified

 

l A'ITEST THAT THE ABOVE. DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMlNATiON OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVEDTHIS REPORT.

Report Electronically Signed on

 

Gross Descriﬂétion: . ,

 

1). The specimen is received fresh, labeled, “Right paratracheai lymph node". and consists of a lymph node measuring 1.0 cm in
diameter. The lymph node is bisected and entirely frozen for intracperativa consultation.

Summary of sections:
EFS — entire lymph node

 

2) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "left neck dissection level 3" and consists of a portion of flbromembranozus and fatty soft
tissue measuring 4.5 x 3.0 x 0.8 cm in aggregate. A 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm gray-black nodule is identified. The lymph node is bisected
and entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
BLN - lymph node dissected 4...

 

3) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "left neck dissection level 4 " and consists of red-tan to yellow-tan aggregate of soft
adipose tissue measuring 2.8 x 2.7 x 1.0 cm. Nine lymph nodes are identiﬁed, ranging from 0.3 to 1.0 cm. The lymph nodes are
entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph nodes (7)
BLN — bisected lymph nodes (2)

 

4) The specimen is received fresh labeled, "Delphlan node“, and consists of two pieces of ten soft tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x 0.2
cm in aggregate. Entirely submitted. '

Summary of sections:
U» undesignated

A

W
Wu..-

5) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "total thyroid. which marks right upper pole" and consists of a thyroid weighing 20.0 g.
The right lobe measures 4.9 x 2.8 x 1.4 cm , the left lobe measures 4.5 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm and the isthmus measures 2.3 x 0.8 x 0.7
cm. The external surface is covered by a thin ﬁbrous capsule. The posterior surface of the specimen is inked black, and the
anterior is inked blue. Sectioning reveals four white-tan firm rubbery encapsulated nodules in the left lower pole, ranging from 0.4
up to 1.4 cm in greatest diameter, and abutting the anterior and posterior inked margins. The remaining thyroid parenchyma is red
tart: Representative sections of the specimen submitted for TPS. The remaining tissue is serially sectioned and entirely

su mitted.

Summary of sections:

 

 

Page 3 of 5

Lit-8) - left lobe. superior to inferior, with nodules in L2-L8 .
RL - right lobe. superior to inferior
iS - isthmus

 

6) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "central compartment neck nodes" and consists of a 3.4 x 3.0 x 0.9 cm aggregate of
yellow-tan hemorrhagic lobulated adipose tissue. Multiple lymph nodes are grossly identiﬁed. ranging from 0.3 up to 0.8 cm. The
lymph nodes are entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN - lymph nodes
BLN - bisected nodes

Summag of §ectionsz
Part 1: Right paratracheal lymph nodes (fa)

Block Sect. Site ,. P65
1 EFS 2

Part 2: Left neck dissection level 3

Block Sect. Site P69
1 0 ADD 1 0
1 BLN 2

Part 3: Left neck dissection level 4

Block Sect. Site P03
2 BLN 4
2 LN 7

Part4: Deiphianiymph node _,_. .. .3

Block Sect. Site P05
1 U 2

Part 5: Total thyroid

Block Sect. Site
is
L1

P
4
2
-1
L3 1
1

‘i

1

1

‘i

1

r“
U1

2

 

Part 6: Central compartment neck nodes

 

Block Sect. Site P65
4 BLN 4
2 LN 6
..
ProcedureslAddenda:
Addendum Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out

Date Complete:

 

 

Page-tots

 

 

Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
    
 

documented an the initial pathology apart: for a cuss sub edform TCGA is inconsistent'wlth the diagnosrs provrdea’ on the:
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case. ,1 - ~ . . , . . . . . .. . . . ., .. .. 2*

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T58): T55 identiﬂeh TSS Unique Patient identiﬁer:
/
Completed By (Interviewer Name on t _ .Completed Date:
Ei’a’giidéitélhtdrtﬁatio'n:I-f , ,
# Dabs Element Entry Alternatives Working-Instructions

 

Provide the diagnosis/ histologlc subtypo(s) documented on

Pathologic Diagnosis the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on initial this case is mixed. provide all listed subtypes.
. Pathology Report MR.

. . Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
HlsmIOSIC features or M W/LQ' WM Quality Control Form completed for this case.

the sample provided
for TCGA. as reﬂected (\ 2e 0. QAWW
on the CQCF. . P ”3 0

nis'a-span'c'yiiétiiéeaseweragneppriggaia.ca‘seoirtnty‘jbassistForm

 

 

 

 

 

3 Provide the reason for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
W ._ pathology report for this case is not consistent with the

Elmzsggetgyifgthology ‘ diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCGA (ﬁg 967’ V 2’ L ‘

Case Quality Control g . c- m My

Form.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of eviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or f“ TCGA
Biorepository Director

 

 

I acknowledge that the above fnfonnatfon provided by my lnstltutian ls true and correct and has been quallty cancelled.

rector Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my instillation ls true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attendlng Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been Informed or is aware ofthe above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

 

’ N Date

