 

 

336961631 panama await

 

 

 

Accession Number:
Collected Date: Received DatelTime: —
Pathologist: I

Sgecimen Descrigtion
Gallbladder

Bile duct margin

Pancreatic margin

Whipple specimen (sent with tissue bank nurse)
Para-aortic lymph node

W999“?

Clinical information
Pancreatic cancer

Diagnosis
A. Gallbladder:
a Chronic choiecyetitie, negative for malignancy

8‘ Bite Duct Margin for Frozen Section:
— Chronic inflammation, negative for malignancy

C. Pancreatic Margin:
- Negative for malignancy

D. Pancreas (Whipple' s Pancreaticcducdenectomv):
« Moderate to poorly—differentiated invasive pancreatic duct carcinoma
-= Siza approximately 6. 0 cm, with invasion into peripancreatic
adipose tissue and duodenal wail with ulceration of duodenal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

., '7‘?”'_"':-’}Suroicall Panacea-assist

Accession Number: _ _
Collected Date: _ Received Datef‘t‘irne: —

Pathologist:

 

 

 

daa‘m-a

 

mucosa (pTS)

- Margins positive at uncinate process and superior and posterior
pancreaticoduodenal soft tissue margins

.. Positive for iymphovascular and perineural invasion

~ Metastatic carcinoma in four of eleven lymph nodes (pN‘i)

E. Paranaortic Lymph Node:
- Reactive lymph node tissue, negative for malignancy

 

Gross Descrigtioﬂ
Received are specimens A to E. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name

. The cassettes and AP identiﬁers are labelled with the Surgical Number

‘

A. The specimen consists clan unopened gallbladder, measuring 9.0 cm‘ in length by 3.5 x 2.0 cm. The outer peritoneal

surface is smoatn, while the roughened liver bed area is unremarkable. There is a small defect in the wall with leakage of
. green bite. The cystic duct lymph node is not visible. The mucosal suriace oi the gallbladder has a dark green velvety

appearance. The wall ranges in thickness from 0.2 cm up to 0.6 cm. No localized lesions can be identified. No gallstones

are present. Four sections are taken and submitted in two cassettes. .

B. The specimen consists of a fragment of soft tissue, measuring 0.5 cm, submitted in toto in one cassette.

 

Please Note: Specimen was originally rejected due to "does not have full Dr. name". it has since been corrected and
returned. -

C. The sieolrnen consists of pancreatic margin,~0.8 x 0.8 x 0.1 cm, submitted in toto in one cassette.

 

 

 

 

    

 

-‘ .- suture-arranging“new

 

 

 

Accession Number:

Collected Date: _ Received Datefl‘lme: ' —

Pathologist:

D. The specimen consists ol 3 pancreatoduodenectomy specimen. with the segment at distal antrum and duodenum
measuring 27.0 cm in length. There is a shallow indurated ulcerated area. 2.5 cm distal from the pyloric valve, measuring
1.8 x 1.0 cm. This appears to its 1.5 cm proximal to the area of the ampulla of Valor. This indurated ulcer appears to be in
continuity with an area tumorous induration in the attached head of pancreas. The head of pancreas measures 6.0 x 4.5 x
3.0 cm. The uncinate margin and pancreatic neck margin are identified and painted orange and blue respectively. The
common bile duct can be identified at the superior surface of the pancreas, and continuity cannot be traced through the
dense tumorous tissue in the head of pancreas. At the ampullary region, there is a nodular thickening lying beneath the
mucosa, measuring approximately 1.8 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. Part of the common bile duct can be identified, but the exact orifice
is not clearly evident. Transverse sectioning oi the head of pancreas reveals a firm craggy area beneath the area of
duodenal ulceration, this tumorous zone is ill-delined, but measures approximately 2.5 x 1.5 x 2.5 cm. it appears to extend
close to the uncinate margin and possibly extend into peripancreatic tissue in the upper pancreaticoduodenal area. The
ulcerated duodenal wall is obscured.

Further sectioning reveals small firm lymph nodes in the vicinity of the common bile, duct, the superior margin, and the
pancreas as well as in the pancreatoduodenal region.

Sections are taken as follows:

D1 Pancreatic neck margin.

D2,D3 Two halves of the superior transverse section of pancreas.

04,05 Two halves of next transverse section of pancreas.

D6,D7 Two halves of transverse sections through mid zone of pancreas including uncinate
margin. '

D8 Additional sections of uncinate margin.

D9,DlO Two halves of transverse sections through interior part of pancreas head.

D11 Section to include proximal nodular area at ampulla.

D12 Section to include distal part of nodular ampulla.

D13 Proximal common bile duct margin.

D14,D15 Lymph nodes around common bile duct.
DiB,D17 Lymph nodes from pancreatic duodenal area.

018 Distal duodenal resection margin.
019 Perpendicular section of pyloric valve margin closest to area of ulceration in the proximal
duodenum.

E. The specimen consists of a firm fragment of oval tissue, measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm. The tissue has a homogeneous
cut surface. The specimen is sectioned into three fragments and is submitted entirely in two cassettes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘5 7"T‘Su‘roicai Pathology-deport? :

Accession Number:
Collected Date: - Received Date/Time:
Pathologist:

Frozen Section Diagnosis
FSB. Bile Duct Margin:
- Negative for malignancy.

 

 

FSC. Pancreatic Margin:
— Negative for malignancy.

Microscopic Description _ .
A. The gallbladder shows chronic inflammation with mild irregularity of mucosal architecture. No cytologic atypia is

present.

 

8. Sections after routine processing confirm the frozen section diagnosis. Only a small segment of bile duct tissue is
present. The surface epithelium is partly denuded but residual epithelium shows no significant atypia and there is no

malignancy in this tragment.
C. Sections atter routine processing coniirm the frozen section diagnosis.

D. There is a widespread invasive pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma that shows a varied morphology, ranging from well-
deiined anguiaied ductai structures through to areas where'more solid sheets and smelt nodules and single cells with
prominent nuclear pieomorphism can be seen. The carcinoma erodes the common bile duct and local areas on ductai
dypiasia are evident. Carcinoma is present In practically all of the sections taken. The extent ot carcinoma thus exceeds
the extent of gross induration and it is estimated to have a size of at least 6.0 cm. Furthermore, carcinoma shows
extension beyond the pancreas into peripancreatic tissue predominantly at the superior margin of the pancreas and in the
zone between pancreas and duodenum. Carcinoma also invades into and through muscularis propria of the duodenum
and ulcerates the overlying duodenal mucosa. Carcinoma also focally involves the uncinate margin, and there are areas
where carcinoma encroaches on the cautcrlzed soft tissue margin at the superior and posterior pancreaticoducdenai
area. There is prominent perineurai invasion, and the section taken of the proximal common bile duct margin includes

carcinoma with perineurai growth at this resection edge.

There is prominent lymphovascular invasion in areas, and there is metastatic carcinoma in four oi eleven lymph nodes.

The proximal gastric and distal duodenal margins are unremarkable. The sections oi the ampulla of Valor show
prominence of periductai glands and smooth muscle but no cytologic atypia or tumor.

 

 

 

 

ACE:

 

' ‘ i' sureerceamaegv Ree-centre

 

'\‘r' - ‘

 

Accession Number: . ,
Collected Date: - ﬁeceiued DatelTIme:
Pathologist:

E. Sections show lymph node tissue with no evidence of metastatic: disease.

 

 

 

 

