 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

* Addended *

SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED

l. ch2 Right neck Level I

2. ch: Right neck Level II

3. ch: Right neck Level III

4. Oral Cavity: Anterior ﬂoor of mout
5. Oral Cavity: Anterior ventral tongu
. Oral Cavity: Middle ventral tongue-
. Oral Cavity: Posterior vein; 1 tongue
. Oral Cavity: Retromolar trigone—
9. Oral Cavity: Posterior buccal mucosa—
10. Oral Cavity: Revision anterior ﬂoor of mouth-

1 1. Oral Cavity: Right mandibulectomy with resection ﬂoor of mouth, suture
anterior

DIAGNOSIS

1. Right neck level I.

Six lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/6).
Submandibular gland with no pathologic changes.
2. Right neck level II.

Fourteen lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/14).
5. Right neck level III.

Fwelve lymph nodes negative for tumor (0/12).

  
    
  
   

*4 ON

00

l. Anterior floor of mouth.

Squamous mucosa with mild keratinizing dysplasia.
\Iegative for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.
5. Anterior ventral tongue.

Squamous mucosa with mild dysplasia.

\legativ'e for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.

3. Middle ventral tongue.

 

 

 

Page 2 of 5

 

Squamous mucosa with mild dysplasia. ‘7 _
Negative for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.

7. Posterior ventral tongue.
Squamous mucosa with mild keratinizing dysplasia.
Negative for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.
8. Retromolar tri gone.
Squamous mucosa with mild keratinizing dysplasia.

. Negative] for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.
9. Posterior buccal mucosa.
Squamous mucosa with mild keratinizing dysplasia.
Negative for high grade dysplasia or invasive carcinoma.
10. Revision anterior ﬂoor of mouth.
Squamous mucosa negative for dysplasia or carcinoma.

1 1. Oral cavity; right mandibulectomy with resection ﬂoor of mouth.
Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.
a. Maximum tumor diameter 3.1 cm.
b. Tumor thickness.2.1 cm.
, c. No lymphovascular invasion.
d. No perineural invasion.
e. Margins of resection negative for tumor. The tumor is close to the lateral
gingival mucosal margin (0.3 cm). ,,
f. Sections of bone are pending. An addendum report will follow.

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Resection:Right mandibulectomy with
resection ﬂoor of mouth and neck dissection.

Tumor Site: Oral Cavity

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.1 cm

Tumor thickness: 2.1 cm

Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
Perineural Invasion: Absent _,

Additional Pathologic Findings: Epithelial dysplasia
Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor

Margins uninvolved by tumor ~ Distance of

tumor from closest margin: 0.3 cm

Margins: Lateral ging'val mucosal margin.

Pathologic Staging (pTNlVI): pT2: Tumor of lip or oral cavity more
than 2 em but not more than 4 cm in greatest dimension
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

   

Page 3 of 5

 

for aerOdigestive sites

Number of regional lymph nodes
examined: 32

Number of regional lymph nodes

involved: 0 -

pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UIC_

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED _

CLINICAL HISTORY

Oral CA

GROSS DESCRIPTION

1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level I“.
it consists of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 6.3 X 4.5 X 1.8 cm. The

 

submandibular gland is unremarkable and measures 3.1 X 2.2 X 1.2 cm. Multiple
lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 X 0.1 X 0.1 to 1.5 X 1.3 X 0.9 cm are identiﬁed.

1A submandibular gland
1B two lymph nodes
1C multiple lymph nodes

2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and ”right neck level II".

It consists of two pieces of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 2.8 X 2.0 X 1.0 and
4.5'X 2.8 X 1.3 cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 X 0.1 X 0.1to 1.3 X
3.6 X 0.8 cm are identiﬁed.

2A multiple lymph nodes

2B multiple lymph nodes

2C one lymph node

2D multiple lymph nodes

5. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and "right neck level

III“. It consists of ﬁbroadipose tissue measuring 3.0 X 1.5 X 1.3 cm-

vlultiple lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 X 0.1 X 0.1 to 1.0 X 0.8 X 0.6 cm are
dentiﬁe d. ..M..- . .. .
!A multiple lymph nodes

5B multiple lymph nodes

5C one lymph node

i. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "anterior ﬂoor of
nouth". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 0.8 X 0.71 X 0.1 cm. The
:pecimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

1A frozen section control

3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "anterior ventral

 

Page 4 of 5

 

tongue". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.0 X 0.3 X 0.2 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

5A frozen section control

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "middle ventral
tongue". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 X 0.4 X 0.1 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section. I
6A frozen section control

 

7. The specimen is labeled. with the patient's name and as "posterior ventral
tongue". It consists of two fragments of tissue measuring 0.5 X 0.2 X 0.1 and
0.5 X 0.3 X 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

7A frozen section control

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "retromolar
trigone". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 0.8 X 0.2 x 0.2 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

8A frozen section control

9. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "posterior buccal
mucosa". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 2.4 X 0.3 X 0.1 cm.
The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.

9A frozen section control

10. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "revision anterior

ﬂoor of mou ". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.5 X 0.3 X 0.1

cm. The Specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section. ' " A
10A frozen section control

11. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "right
mandibulectomy with resection of ﬂoor of mouth suture anterior”. It consists
of an oriented right partial mandibulectomy with ﬂoor of mouth measuring 4.2
SI X 7.3 ML X 2.4 cm AP. The inferior alveolus contains 6 teeth. There is a
tumor arising in the alveolus crossing to the alveolar ridge. The tumor
measures 2.1 SI X 1.8 ML X 3.1 cm AP. The tumor is white—tan, multinodular and
has a soft tan friable consistency- It is located at 0.6 cm from the medial

ﬂoor of mouth margin, 0.3 cm from the lateral alveolar mucosal margin, 0.5 cm
from the anterior alveolar mucosal margin, and 1.0 cm from the posterior of
alveolar mucosal margin. There is no involvement of bone by tumor grossly.
Representative sections are submitted.

1 1A tumor with medial ﬂoor of mouth margin

1 18 tumor with lateral alveolar mucosal margin

1 1C tumor with anterior alveolar mucosal margin

1 1D tumor with posterior alveolar mucosal margin

1 lE-l 1G tumor (1 E—lG tumor with medial ﬂoor of mouth margin, 1 1G tumor
taken at the level of the alveolar ridge with lateral alveolar mucosal margin)
11H anterior mandible resection margin en face (decalciﬁcation)

   

Page 5 of 5

l 11 posterior mandible resection margin en face (decalciﬁcation)

Wm (decalciﬁcation)

QUICK SECTION

4. Anterior ﬂoor of mouth: QS4A: Focal area of atypia, ? dysplasia as well as
focal inﬂammatory changes with acanthosis and elongation of rete ridges, no
evidence diagnostic of invasive carcinoma

5. Anterior ventral tongue: QSSA: Focal acanthosis and parakeratosis, no
evidence diagnostic of invasive carcinoma

6. Middle ventral tongue; QS 6A: No evidence diagnostic of invasive carcinoma
7. Posterior ventral tongue: QS7A: Focal atypia, ? dysplasia, no evidence
diagnostic of invasive carcinoma

8. Retromolar trigone: QSSA: No evidence diagnostic of invasive carcinoma
9. Posterior buccal mucosa: QS9A: Focal acanthosis and elongation of rete
ridges, no evidence diagnostic of invasive carcinoma.

Case reported to OR a-

10. Revision anterior ﬂoor of mouth: QSlOA: No evidence diagnostic dysplasia
or invasive carcinoma.

 

Addendum Status: Signed Out
Date Reporte

Addendum Comment
Decalciﬁed sections of the mandible show invasion of alveolar bone by squamous
:ell carcinoma. The bone margins are negative for tumor.

 

 

