SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-ldentified Specimen Code:-

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:
Part A: LEFT UPPER LOBE
Part B: LEVEL 5

Part C: LEVEL 6

Part D: LEVEL 7

Part E: LEVEL 9

Part F: LEVEL 10

Part G: LEVEL 11

Final Diagnosis

Left lung, upper lobe, lobectomy (A) - Adenosquamous carcinoma (see comment).
- Metastatic adenosquamous carcinoma in peribronchial lymph nodes.
- Centrilobular emphysema

2. Lymph nodes. level 5, level 6, level 7, level 9, level 11, excision (B—E, G) — Lymph nodes;
negative for neoplasm

3V Lymph nodes, level 10, excision (F) - Microscopic focus of metastatic non~small cell carcinoma.

 

Page 1 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:

Tumor Location: left upper lobe

Tumor Size: 3.6 x 3.4 x 2.9 cm

Vascular invasion: extensively present.
Lymphatic invasion: extensively present.
Bronchial Margin: negative

Vascular Margin: The tumor is present within the perivascular fibroadipose tissue at the pulmonary arterial
margin.

Parenchymal Margins: not applicable.

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: The tumor invades through the visceral pleura and is present at the pleural
adhesion margins.

Pathologic Stage (AJCC, 7th edition): p stage lllA (T4 N1 MX).

Additional comments: The tumor is predominantly squamous cell carcinoma with areas of glandular formation
and signet ring cells. Mucin stains (A6, A8, A11, A12) highlight the presence of intra and extracellular mucin.
immunohistochemical stains for TTF-1 and p—63 (blocks A8, A11, A4, A10) were used in the evaluation of this
case. The adenocarcinoma component merge and mingle with the squamous cell carcinoma and represents
approximately 5-10% of the tumor, consistent with adenosquamous type. EGFR mutation testing will be
performed and the results reported as an addendum.

ANALYTE SPEClFiC REAGENT (ASR) DlSCLAlMER

loped and its performance characteristics determined by the—

The US. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for clinical use.

Procedure: ADDENDUM Status: Signed Out
Text: This addendum is issued to report additional information. The tumor present in the
perivascular soft tissue at the vascular margin section, is only within lymphovascular
spaces, with no direct involvement of the fibroadipose tissue.

 

Page 2 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Signed Out
Text: EGFR Mutation Analysis

Diagnosis of neoplasm: No EGFR alteration detected

Genotype result: Wild type

intraogerative Diagnosis:
{Not Entered)

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUL CA (NODULE)
STlTCH MARKS WHERE TUMOR WAS ADHERENT TO CHEST WALL NEAR BYPASS GRAFT

 

Page 3 of 4

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Descrigtion:

A. Received fresh labeled "left upper lobe" is a specimen that consists of an upper lobe of the left lung
measuring 21.7 x 14.1 x 4.4 cm, and weighing 3376 grams with the bronchial remnant that measures
1.2 cm in length. The pleural surface is pink-gray, roughened with an area of fibrous adhesions (inked
black) which is overlying a poorly defined white—gray firm necrotic mass measuring 3.6 X 3.4 X 2.9 cm
and invading and through the pleural surface and vesses grossly visible. The mass is 3.0 cm from the
bronchial margin. The remainder of the lung tissue is unremarkable. Twelve nodules resembling lymph
nodes are identified ranging from 0.7 to 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are
submitted as follows: A1 bronchial margin, A2 vascular margin, A8—A10 mass (A3—A5 with pleural
surface, A6~A8 with vascular involvement, A9 with bronchus, A11-A13 one possible lymph node. A14
four possible lymph nodes, A15 four possible lymph nodes, A16 three possible lymph nodes.

8. Received fresh labeled "level 5" are multiple irregular pink-black soft segments of tissue aggregating
to 1.8 x 1.5 X 0.5 cm. The specimens are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

C. Received fresh labeled "level 6" are multiple irregular black soft segments of tissue aggregating to
1.2 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimens are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

D. Received fresh labeled "level 7" are multiple irregular black~yellow soft segments of tissue
aggregating to 1.5 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm. The specimens are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

E. Received fresh labeled "level 9" is an irregular yellow segment of fibrofatty tissue measuring 2.2 x 0.7
x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

F. Received fresh labeled "level 10" are multiple irregular black—pink soft segments of tissue aggregating
to 1.5 x 1.3 x 0.4 cm. The specimens are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

G. Received fresh labeled "level 11" are multiple irregular black-pink soft segments of “tissue aggregating
to 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. The specimens are totally submitted in formalin in one cassette.

Microscopic:
{Not Entered}

 

Page 4 of4

