UUID: F3CE442E- 9166- 491C- 5E5Rﬂ- 4852EC7185Fe2d
TCGA-MJ-A4N6-01A-P

|| | lll||||l|||||||||||||||||||||||||||Ed
i” IIII llIlilIlIIl IIIIIIIIIIIIIIllliIIIIIIIIEIIIII ll|||| ||I|||||||l|||lll I III II III
III ”III“ II llllllllllllllllllllll || | I “II" llllllll I "II“ II III

Patient: Accession Number:
Hospital No: Pathologist: Ordering M.D.:
Date of Birth: Assistant:
Age/Sex: F Date of Procedure:
Date Received:
Location:

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

DIAGNOSIS:

A. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY:
- Ovary and fallopian tube with multiple foci of papillary carcinoma,
predominantly in the lumen of vessels

B. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY:
- Ovary and fallopian tube with multiple foci of papillary carcinoma,
predominantly in the lumen of vessels

C. UTERUS AND CERVIX:
- Malignant mixed mullerian tumor of the endometrium inﬁltrating the entire
thickness of the myometrium with extensive vascular invasion
- Cervix: Foci of papillary serous carcinoma within vessels
- Leiomyoma with foci of papillary serous carcinoma within vessels

D. RIGHT PARAAORTIC LYMPH NODE:
- Metastatic papillary serous carcinoma in lymph node extending to perinodal
connective tissue

E. OMENTUM BIOPSY:
- Adipose tissue, no tumor present

COMMENT: This malignant mixed mullerian tumor is composed of papillary serous
carcinoma, approximately 50%, and sarcoma, with extensive areas of
rhabdomyosarcoma, approximately 50%. All the foci of tumor in the myometrium, cervix,
fallopian tubes and ovaries consist of only papillary serous carcinoma.

ICiD—O {5
SYNOPTIC REPORT: UMCIWMgoM/M 11m! ”2“” a; "U"
Applies To: 950 5
A: LEFT TUBE AND OVARY TW maj’9‘m‘i 9
B: RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY , . _ d’ W
» . t. o r!
c : UTERUS AND CERVlX 5: fe. Cams (17'9“, 61445054 I
D : RIGHT PERIAORTIC LYMPH NODE )
E : OMENTUM BIOPSY C945 6/8 13

Microscopic

Histologic Type: Malignant mixed mullerian tumor

Tumor Size: Dimensions: 12 x 10 x 8cm

Myometrial Invasion: Greater than 50% myometrial invasion

 

Patient Case(s):

Copy For
Page 1 of 4

 

 

PATIENT: ACCESSION #:

Involvement of Cervix: ‘ Invasion of cervical stromal connective tissue
Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Lymphovascular Invasion: Present

Pathologic Staging (p TNM) AJCC 7th Edition 2010

Primary Tumor (pT): pT3a : Tumor involves serosa and/or adnexa (direct extension or metastasis)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Cannot be assessed

Number of para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 1

Number of para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 1

HISTORY:
Vaginal discharge

MICROSCOPIC FINDINGS:
See diagnosis.

GROSS: .. " . ' .
A. LEFT TUBE AND OVARY
Labeled , designated “left tube and ovary”, and received in formalin is an intact adnexa

consisting of a short segment of non-ﬁmbriated fallopian tube measuring 2.6 cm long and 1.2 cm in
diameter intimately attached to a 2.6 x 2.5 x 1.6 cm ovary. The fallopian tube lumen ranges from pinpoint
to 0.4 cm in diameter. The cut surface of the ovary is ill-defined mottled and pink-tan to white. The
overlying capsular surface is disrupted and shaggy. There is attached blood clot and ﬁbrous adhesions
on the mesosalpinx of the fallopian tube.

Ink key: black - external surface of adnexa.
Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:
A1—A3. Fallopian tube with attached ovary - 1 each

B. RIGHT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled . designated “right tube and ovary". and received in formalin is an intact adnexa
consisting of a non-ﬁmbriated segment of fallopian tube measuring 6.4 cm long and average diameter of
1.5 cm attached to a 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm ovary. The attached mesosalpinx and ﬁbrovascular paraovarian
tissue measures 4.5 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm. The ovary has a mottled pink—tan to white cut surface. The capsule
is shaggy and granular. The ovary has a patent lumen ranging from pinpoint to 0.2 cm in diameter. The
mesosalpinx has a shaggy surface with attached adhesions. The paraovarian soft tissue is thickened
and edematous.

Ink key: black - external surface of adnexa.
Representative sections are submitted.

Slide key:

81. Fallopian tube cross sections - 2

BZ. Ba. Bisected presumed non-fimbriated distal end of fallopian tube - 2
B4. Ovary - 2

85. Paraovarian tissue - 2

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 2 of 4

PATIENT: ACCESSION #:

C. UTERUS AND CERVIX FS

Labeled . designated ”uterus and cervix FS”, and received fresh for intraoperative
consultation is a 1331.5 gram total hysterectomy Specimen. It measures 13.4 cm ectocervix to fundus,
14.0 cm cornu to cornu. and approximately 14.0 cm anterior to posterior. The cervical portion of the
uterus is 3.0 cm long and up to 6.7 cm in maximum diameter. The endometrial cavity is approximately
12.0 cm long and 10.0 cm wide. The myometrial thickness ranges from 1.4 to 3.5 cm.

There is a large fungating mass entirely filling the endometrial cavity (12.0 x 10.0 x 8.0 cm). It is primarily
based in the uterus with extension into both the anterior and posterior lower uterine segments. The mass
is located 4.2 cm from the anterior ectocervix and 1.6 cm from the posterior ectocervix. On the adjacent
myometrium are several separate polypoid masses ranging from 1.0 to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension.
The small portions of intervening myometrium range from smooth to pink—tan with an average thickness
of 0.3 cm to bulky solid and tan-white with a thickness of 0.6 cm. The exophytic portions of the mass
range from soft glistening to pink-tan to ﬁrm tan-white and whorled. The surface of the exophytic mass is
gray-yellow and necrotic appearing. Approximately 20% to 30% of the mass is necrotic appearing. The
entire mass is superﬁcial with focal probable invasion. In the fundus of the anterior side there is invasive
to 0.4 cm out of a total myometrial thickness of 1.5 cm (less than 50%). In the remaining uterus the mass
is not grossly invasive. Separately received is an aggregate of polypoid necrotic and hemorrhagic mass
measuring 11.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm in aggregate.

Within the myometrium are approximately 20 to 30 subserosal and intramural nodules ranging from 0.6 to
5.8 cm in diameter. All of the nodules have a ﬁrm tan-white whorled cut surface. Areas of hemorrhage
necrosis are not identified. In one of the middle-sized subserosal nodules are focal calcifications. The
intervening myometrium is pink-tan and rubbery. On the serosal aspect of the uterine corpus are several
small fibrous adhesions. The endocervical canal is dilated with a flat tan-brown faintly granular mucosal
surface.

Ink key:

Blue - anterior paracervical tissue and uterine corpus serosa

Black - posterior paracervical soft tissue and uterine corpus serosa
Orange - inferior portion of lower uterine segment sections

A representative section is submitted for frozen section, and further submitted for permanent sections.
Representative sections are submitted. Gross photographs are taken.

Slide key:

C1. Anterior cervix - 1

C2. Anterior lower uterine segment with mass - 1

03-05. Trisected mass anterior side mid corpus ~ 1 each

CS, C7. Bisected full thickness section of anterior fundus with soft glistening portion of mass and
probable deepest mass invasion - 1 each

CB-C10. Additional full thickness trisected anterior fundus with soft glistening portion of mass - 1 each
C11, C12. Representative sections of separately received tumor - 1 each

C13. Posterior cervix - 1

C14. Posterior lower uterine segment - 1

C15, C16. Bisected mid portion of posterior uterine corpus with mass - 1 each

C17-C19. Posterior fundus trisected full thickness section with solid firm whorled component of mass — 1
each

C20. Representative posterior Ieiomyomata - 4

C21. Representative anterior Ieiomyomata - 4

C22. Frozen section remnant - 1

D. RIGHT PARAAORTIC LYMPH NODE

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 4

PATIENT: ACCESSION #:

Labeled . designated “right paraaortic lymph node", and received in formalin is a 3.0 x 1.4
x 0.9 cm semiﬁrm candidate lymph node. The cut surface is partially cystic with a solid tan-white tumor
deposit measuring 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The candidate node is representatively submitted.

D1. 4

E. OMENTAL BIOPSY

Labeled , designated “omental biopsy", and received in formalin is a portion of ﬁnely
Iobulated tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue consistent with omentum measuring 7.0 x 4.0 x 0.6 cm. Mass
lesions are not Identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted.

E1. Multiple

Gross dictated by

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: ‘ .
OPERATIVE CALL
OPERATIVE CONSULT (FROZEN):

FSC. UTERUS AND CERVIX:
- Uterine cavity ﬁlled by polypoid mass of tumor
- grossly superﬁcially invasive high-grade malignant tumor

l have personallv examined the specimen, interpreted the results. reviewed the report and signed it electronically.
Electronically signed

I
:merla 10") 9" %I > I y
. .
219ml; Discrepancy ~ I
ziimnry ruhlol Sim tam—T
um Bisrrnpﬂnq .2- ’ _

'Imr Malignancy Ilisrmy ‘

 

 

 

 

 

)u-I/Syn:bror.nus Prim: ‘ .

asehiclnle). Emmi ) / n .
----«.._~ ISQUAI IF.
tavluwar Inltials_ _ Date Reviewed: m“

 

.— —.._____

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 4 of 4

1%-..

