/€A’0'3
dMWWW, WMM'ﬁd M VI ”ya/«Jaded 9380/3
511,: WWW ¢§4,/ a/AH/n [A]

Surgical Pathology

uurn:eAFDcsco-FAeA-41aa-Aeaa-£374A£sacszs
TCGA-Dl-A1N2-81A-PR Redacted

Ill lllHlllHIllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
. I” llllllllIlllHllllHlllllllllﬂlllIlHlll
SLI DE DI SPOS IT ION . lH lllHllllHlllHllllHlllllllllllllHllllgllﬁllllllﬂﬂlll'lllillllll

DIAGNOSIS:

A. Uterus, hysterectomy: FIGO grade 1 (of 3) endometrial
adenocarcinoma, endometrioid and villoglandular type, is
identified ' --

forming a mass (2.5 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm), located in the
posterior

uterine wall. The tumor invades 0.6 cm into the
myometrium (total

wall thickness 1.8 cm). Lymphovascular space invasion is
not

identified. The tumor does not involve the endocervix.
The margins

are negative for tumor.

B. Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy: The left
fallopian tube is
without diagnostic abnormality.

C. Ovary and fallopian tube, right, salpingo-
oophorectomy: The

right ovary and fallopian tube are without diagnostic
abnormality.

Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:

, M.D.

D. Ovary, left, oophorectomy: The left ovary is without
diagnostic
abnormality.

E. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, lymphadenectomy: Multiple
(12) right

pelvic lymph nodes are negative for tumor. Frozen section
histologic interpretation performed by:
M.D.

F. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, lymphadenectomy: Multiple
(22) left

pelvic lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

With available surgical material [AJCC pTlaNO] (7th
edition, 2010).

This final pathology report is based on the
gross/macroscopic

examination and frozen section histologic evaluation of
the

specimen(s). Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent
sections are

reviewed to confirm these findings. Any substantive
changes

identified on permanent section review will be reflected
in a

revised report.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

A. Received fresh labeled "uterus" is a 105.0 gram uterus
without

attached bilateral tubes and ovaries. The uterine serosa
is

disrupted and has diffuse fibrous adhesions. There is a
2.5 x 2.0 x

0.7 cm polypoid mass in the right side of the endometrial
cavity

without invasion grossly. The myometrial thickness is 1.8
cm.

There are 3 uterine submucosal and intramural leiomyomata
ranging

from 0.3 cm to 1.9 cm. Representative sections are
submitted.

B. Received fresh labeled "left fallopian tube" is an 8.0
cm in

length by 0.4 cm in diameter portion of unremarkable
fallopian tube.

Representative sections are submitted.

C. Received fresh labeled "right fallopian tube and
ovary" is a

15.0 gram, 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm ovary with a 7.5 x 0.5 cm
fallopian

tube. The ovary has a smooth outer surface and a solid
cut surface.

The fallopian tube unremarkable. Representative sections
submitted.

D. Received fresh labeled "left ovary" is a 10.0 gram,
2.8 x 2.4 x

1.0 cm ovary. The ovary has a smooth outer surface and a
solid cut

surface. Representative sections submitted.

E. Received fresh labeled "right pelvic nodes" is a 4.0 x
4.0 x 3.0

cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue. Lymph nodes
submitted. Grossed by

F. Received fresh labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" is a
7.0 x 6.0

x 2.5 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue. Lymph
nodes

submitted.

 

