Sex: M

Source of Specimen(s): 'TCGA - Hl - 7170
1: Left pelvic lymph nodes

2: Right pelvic lymph nodes
3: Prostate and seminal vesicles

Gross Description:
Received in three parts.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled # 1, ”left pelvic lymph nodes"

Gross Description: Received fresh labeled ",

left pelvic lymph nodes" are 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm of yellow tan fibroadipose
tissue. There are several palpable lymph nodes, 0.1 cm in greatest
dimension. The tissue is entirely submitted in two blocks.

Designation of Sections: 1A~ one lymph node, 113— remaining tissue

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled # 2, “right pelvic lymph nodes"

Gross Description: Received fresh labeled ",

right pelvic lymph nodes" are 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm of yellow tan
fibroadipose tissue. There are two palpable lymph nodes, 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension. They are entirely submitted in two blocks.

Designation of Sections: ZA- one lymph node, 2B~ one lymph node
aasassas$$$$$aassas*as$$seasaassasaeasasasssasassass*esasasssaesaasasssase

Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled # 3, "prostate and seminal vesicles”

Gross Description: Received fresh labeled ",

prostate and seminal vesicles” is a 46—gram, 3.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm radical
prostatectomy. The right side is inked with black and the left side is
inked in blue. The specimen is sectioned to reveal tan nodular bulging
cut surfaces. Predominantly in the middle and posterior lobes the cut
surfaces are golden yellow, orange and firm. The right vas deferens is
2.0 x 0.4 cm being tan, unremarkable with a pin point lumen. The right
seminal vesicle is 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and on sectioning is grossly
unremarkable. The left vas deferens is 1.0 x 0.4 cm being tan,
unremarkable with a pin point lumen. The left seminal vesicle is 1.5 x
1.0 x 0.8 cm and on sectioning is grossly unremarkable. Representative
sections are submitted in fourteen blocks.

Designation of Sections: 3A— right apex, 3B— left apex, 3C— right base,
3D— left base, 3E— right anterior lobe, 3F— right middle lobe, 3G-3H-
right posterior lobe, 31— left anterior lobe, 3}- left middle lobe, 3K—3L—
left posterior lobe, 3M- right vas deferens and seminal vesicle, 3N— left
vas deferens and seminal vesicle

Summary of Sections: multiple

 

Final Diagnosis:
1. Left pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
- Four lymph nodes, No tumor seen (0/4).

2. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
— Two lymph nodes, No tumor seen (0/2).

3. Prostate and seminal vesicles, radical prostatectomy:

- Prostatic adenocarcinoma, Gleason's score 3+3=6, involving both
prostatic lobes and comprising approximately 35% of the tissue examined.
— Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.

— No extraprostatic extension present.

- Inked resection margins negative for carcinoma.

— Seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia with no tumor seen.

 

