UUID: SESSASAE- BE7C- 462A- SCBC- -8085161A§135da

TCGA- EM- A2CR- 01A A-P

lllllllllllllllll
Ill lllllll l lllll l "Hullllllllllll‘mmlliluﬂllll

SurgicallPathology Consultation Report

 

Patient

Name:

MRN:

DOB:

Gender: F
HCN:

Ordering

MD:

Copy To:

Service:
Wsit #:
Location:
Facility:

Accession #:
Collected:

Received:

Reported:

 

S ecimen s R ceived

1. Parathyroid: Right Upper

2. Parathyroid: Left lower parathyroid

3. Lymph node: Left paratracheal node
4. Thyroid: Total thyroid, stitch marks upper pole right lobe

W

Diagnosis

1. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (right upper) biopsy.

2. No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid (left lower) biopsy.

 

3. Follicular nodular disease: Thyroid (left paratracheal region) biopsy.

4. Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant2.,6cm follicular variant right: Thyroid
No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 3
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid, rightx2, left
Total thyroidectomy specimen.

Synoptic Data

Procedure:
Received:
Specimen Integrity:
Specimen Size:

Total thyroidectomy
Fresh
intact
Right lobe:
5.0 cm

3.5 cm

2.0 cm
Left lobe:
4.0 cm

2.4 cm

1.5 cm

Isthmus +/-. pyramidal lobe:

[CA-O—B

rim-M WW“?!
MW (/wa V3 Ha I 3

‘f‘: WK MUS €7.17 ”Lil/k

3.4 cm

2.3 cm

1.0 cm
Specimen Weight: 24.2 9
Tumor Focality: Multifocal, bilateral
--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR-------——-----

  

Tumor Laterality: . _‘ w w,
Tumor Size: reatest dimension: 2.6cm
Additional dimension. 2. 4 cm
Additional dimension: 2 2 cm
Histologic Type: WWW pr/vTSS Wm W:
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Tumor Capsule: Totally encapsulated

Tumor Capsular invasion: Present. extent minimal
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identified
--------------- SECONDTUMOR-—-------------
Tumor Laterality: Left lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 0.1cm
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, microcarcinoma (occult, small or

microscopic) variant
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable

Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Tumor Capsule: None

Tumor Capsular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Lym ph-Vascuiar invasion: Not identified

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: m (multiple primary tumors)

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm. but not more than 4 cm, limited
to thyroid

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 3
Number of regional iym ph nodes involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenomatoid nodu|e(s) or Nodular follicular disease
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UiCC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Electronically
veriﬁed by:

W

Clinical Histou

 

for qs

Gross Descrl tion
1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Right Upper" contains a piece of

tissue that measures 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.05 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
1A frozen tissue resubmitted

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Left Lower Parathyroid for 05" contains
a piece of tissue that measures 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
2A frozen tissue resubmitted

3. The specimen labelled with the patient's name and as “Left Paratracheal Node" consists of a
piece of brown tissue that measures 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm.
3A submitted in toto

4. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Total Thyroid. Stitch Marks Upper Pole
Right Lobe" consists of a thyroid gland that is oriented with a suture and weighs 24.2 g. The right
lobe measures 5.0 cm Si x 3.5 cm ML x 2.0 cm AP, the left lobe measures 4.0 cm Si x 2.4 cm ML
x 1.5 cm AP and the isthmus measures 3.4 cm Si x 2.3 cm ML x 1.0 cm AP. The external
surfaces have fibrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly.
The external surface is painted with blue dye. The mid to lower right lobe contains a well
delineated nodule that measures 2.6 cm Si x 2.4 cm ML x 2.2 cm AP. The remainder of the
thyroid tissue is unremarkable. Sections of the nodule and normal tissue are stored frozen. The
remainder of the specimen is submitted in toto as follows:

4A-M right lobe, superior to inferior [E-F;G-H;J-K section bisected]

4N-Q isthmus

4R-V left lobe, superior to inferior

Quick Section- Diagnosis
1. Parathyroid: Right Upper 08: Parathyroid tissue identiﬁed.
Surgeon informed at

2. Parathyroid: Left lower parathyroid: Parathyroid tissue identiﬁed.
Surgeon called at ’ ‘

 

