Neck miiilllililiiliiillﬁiiiﬁlﬁiﬁiﬁﬁllmimllliliiiliiii
“N” “Milillﬂilnilliiiiiimlmiliillilimmumliiui

I
HWMMWWMWHWI

 

.5

Clinical Diagnosis 8; History:
year old female with papillary thyroid carcinoma with positive right upper lobe nodular on FNA and right submandibular LN

positive for papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Rule out right upper parathyroid (fs)

2: Lymph node near the right recurrent nerve
3: Right thyroid lobe and isthmus

4: Left thyroid lobe and isthmus

5: Right neck contents levels 2.3 and 4

6: Lowest level 4 lymph nodes, right neck

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Soft tissue, “rule out right upper parathyroid": biopsy:
— Micrometastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma involving one lymph node (1/1)
- The metastatic lymph node is 3 mm
- The metastatic focus is less than 1 mm
— Extranodal extension not identiﬁed

Note: the micrometastatlc focus was not present on the original frozen section slide.

2. Lymph node near the right recurrent nerve; biopsy:
- One benign lymph node (0/1)

-;.'..'

Iob’ﬂ’j
3. Right thyroid lobe and isthmus:

Part# 3 Wl'pwpljﬂﬂlﬂbfmx yaw/3

Tumor Type:

Papillary carcinoma, classical type Jib : We; M9; & 73 . 7
Histologic Grade:
Well differentiated
. {ﬂ/) 7/0,
Mitotic Activity:
Not identiﬁed

Tumor Necrosis:
Not identiﬁed

_ Other Tumor Features:
Psammoma bodies
Tumor Location:

 

Right lobe

Tumor Size: ,
Greatest diameter is 1.6 cm.

Page 1 of 4

 

Tumor Encapsulation:
None Identified

Blood Vessel invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroid Extension:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

Adenoma(s) (away from the carcinoma):

Not Identiﬁed -
Non-Neoplastic Thyroid:

Exhibits chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis consistent with Hashimoto's thyroldllis
Parathyroid Glands:

Not identified f:

Lymph Nodes:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma involving 1 out oi 6 lymph nodes (1/6), lymph node with metastasis is 5

mm in greatest dimension. largest tumor deposit is 2.6 mm. No extranodai extension identiﬁed.

 

4. Left thyroid lobe and isthmus; hemlthyroidectorny:
- Chronic lymphocytlc thyrolditis consistent with Hashlmoto's thyrolditis

- Four benign lymph nodes (014)

5. Right neck contents levels 2.3 and 4:

Part # 5

Lymph Node Dissection:
Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma
Number of lymph nodes examined: 30
Number of lymph nodes with metastatic disease: 3
Size of the largest lymph node involved by tumor: 1.50m.
Size of the largest metastatic focus : 1.45 cm.
Extranodal extension is not identified
Benign skeletal muscle

 

6. Lowest level 4 lymph nodes. right neck; excision:
~ Seven benign lymph nodes (0/7)

I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
P V DTHIS REPORT.

_.._ 4am

*" Report Electronically Signed Uut

 

Gross Description: 9.

 

Page 2 of 4

 

1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen sectIOn consultation, labeled "rule outright upper parathyroid" and consists 01' single
piece of tissue measuring 0.2 x 0.1 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

 

2). The Specimen is received fresh, labeled "lymph node near the right recurrent nerve" and consists of a single pink tan ﬁrm lymph
node measuring 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm. The lymph node is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - lymph node

 

3). The specimen is received fresh labeled "right thyroid lobe and isthmus". It consists of a 25.5 g. 7.4 x 3.8 x 2.6 cm thyroid lobe.
The surface is purple-pink with an intact capsule. The lobe is lnked black posterior and blue anterior. Serial sectioning reveals a
1.6 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm ovoid, tan-white, firm, unencapsulated nodule in the upper pole which abuts the anterior aspect and 0.2 cm from
the posterior aspect. The remainder of the cut surface is red-pink, nodular meaty. At the medial aspect are multiple pink-tan, firm
lymph nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. No isthmus is identiﬁed. A portion of the specimen ls sent for
TPS. Representative sections are submitted, including all identiﬁable lymph nodes.

Summary of sections:
RLN - right lobe nodule
RL - right lobe

LN - lymph nodes

 

4). The specimen is received fresh labeled "left lobe and isthmus“. It consists of a 5.5 x 3.5 x 2.3 cm thyroid lobe with a 4 x 1.8 x
1.6 cm isthmus. The surface is purple-pink with an intact capsule. The lobe ls inked black posterior and blue anterior. Serial
sectioning reveals red-pink, nodular, meaty cut surfaces with no gross lesions identiﬁed. At the medial aspect are two pink-tan.
firm lymph nodes measuring 0.7 and 0.9 cm In greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted, including all
identiﬁable lymph nodes. .

Summary of sections:

LL - left lobe

is - isthmus

LN - lymph node

BLN - bisected lymph node

 

5). The specimen is received fresh labeled "right neck contents levels 2. 3 and 4". It consists of a 11.5 x 4.4 x 1.5 cm portion of
red-pink to yellow—tan, fibreadipose tissue with attached 3 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm portion of skeletal muscle, but no submandibular gland or
segment of a major vein. The specimen is sent for lymph node dissection to reveal multiple lymph nodes ranging from 02 to 1.5
cm in greatest dimension. All identiﬁed lymph nodes and representative sections of the remaining specimen are submitted.

Summary of sections:

M - muscle

LN - lymph nodes

BLN - bisected lymph nodes

 

 

Hr. Patisserf
"i:

6) The specimen is received fresh, labeled “lowest level 4 lymph nodesvright neck“ and consists of multiple pink tantlrm lymph
nodes ranging from 0.4 to 1.2 cm in greatest dimension. All identified lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — lymph nodes

Summag of Sections:
Part 1: Rule out right upper parathyroid (f3)

Block Sect. Site P03
1 FSC 2

Part 2: Lymph node near the right recurrent nerve

Block Sect. Site P65
1 LN 1
Part 3: Right thyroid lobe and isthmus
W ...,, ~=w,-.
Block Sect. Site P09
3 LN 9 ,.
3 RL 3
3 RLN 3
Part 4: Left thyroid lobe and isthmus
Black Sect. Site P09
1 BLN 2
1 l3 1
4 LL 5
1 LN 1

Part 5: Right neck contents levels 2,3 and 4 '

Block Sect. Site PCs
5 BLN 10
6 LN 30

1 M 1

Part 6: Lowest level 4 lymph nodes, right neck

Block Sect. Site P68
2 LN ' 4

Intraogerative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
“ .

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

, consultation.
1. . FROZEN SECTlON DiAGNOSlS: Benign lymph node a.
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: 368 final
r
«W
at
pm 4 0:4 END OF REPORT
Diagnosis Discrepancy ‘ V“ No
7r a umor in iscre an _
lenurplqepaicy D P Cy :7h
Prior Malignanq History -——~_

 

 

Dual/S nchmnous Prim
Caseilicircle):

' J égﬁiﬁ DIS ll 1 ‘
RevrewerlmiLali Date REVIP—{VE IQZUJMIIEIED! I 3’

i7

— -_.__. .

 

r

