 

Result Name Results Units
El Surgical Pathology COPY TO:

Pre—Op Diagnosis
Right renal mass
Post-Op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated

Gross Description:
Received in a single container labeled right

kidney” is a 600 gram partially sectioned right nephrectomy specimen
surrounded by a large amount of perinephric adipose tissue and faced
anteriorly by a moderate amount of Gerota's fascia. The specimen on
reconstruction measures 19.8 x 13.2 x 6.6 cm. The margins of
resection include 0.9 cm of grossly patent renal artery, 0.8 cm of
grossly patent renal vein and 7.5 cm of grossly patent ureter. The
capsule strips with ease to reveal an organ measuring 9.3 x 6.0 x 4.8
cm. The cortex is up to 1.0 cm and is homogeneous and red brown. The
corticomedullary junction is poorly defined. The medulla is
homogeneous red brown with sharp papillae. The calices and pelvis are
lined by smooth gray tan mucosa extending into the ureter. Noted on
the anterior aspect in the upper to mid pole is a well circumscribed
apparently unencapsulated 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm focally hemorrhagic for
hyalinized tan pink to yellow nodular lesion. A discrete groSs
capsule is not identified. The lesion extends anteriorly, but appears
to be limited by an intact area of attenuated cortical parenchyma.
The lesion grossly appears to compress adjacent structures but does
not grossly appear to extend into them. No other gross lesions are
identified. also rece' ‘ same container are three tissue
cassettes each labeled)“ Representative sections are
submitted labeled as follows: A w vascular and ureteral margin: B—F —
representative lesion and surrounding tissue; G — random uninvolved

licroscopic Descri ' ‘
The slides labeled re examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis
Right kidney (nephrectomy):
Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type:%Convention 1 {clear cell} renal carcinoma»
Tumor sitez~Upper to mid-pole of right kidney“
Size: 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm '
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney
Nuclear grade:<¥uhrman grade 2—3 ,
Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular
pace invasion identified
. Transcapsular extension of tumor: No
Renal vein invasion: No
Vena caval invasion: Not resected
0. Adrenal gland: Not resected
Surgical margin status:
Soft tissue margin: Negative
Ureteral margin: Negative
3. Vascular margin: Negative
Lymph node status:
‘ No lymph nodes resected.
Other findings:
Interstitial chronic inflammation.
TNM staging:
pTla, NX, Mx PAS 9 SPC~A
CPT: 88307

Hmooqm ($01.5me

N H

 

