Page I of 2

- - — - - a F
mug???» ms “35%: 69407C ”admired

G GB-ASSM-
NW '* WU d0 not see "END OF mm mm- atthe bottom ow llllllllllllllIIIllllIllIllllllllll mmnnummmn
”MWMWWW“0T““ETHEENT'REREP0RT-Pleé‘sawﬂ IIunmummluummuum IIII uuuuuuu

WNW] III IIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIII I IIIII II IIIIIIIIII I IIIII III

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Time (Inﬂected
Time Reported

Order Number Ordering Provide!
Status Final Relevant

Information

Loc t'

8 Ion Ida’o ’ 3
COW“ To gala/1W NO 5
I

Report Patient Name 9/70 A3

Demographics

> 3253“ MW 1 WW MD
cap «Hal/a3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

*****Surqical Pathology Report*****

Accession Number
Collected Date/Time
Received Date/Time
Pathologist

Specimen Description
Gallbladder

HCC tumor left lobe

Deep margin

Final margin liver lobe left

ODE-5H

Clinical Informaticn
Infectious patient:Yes — Hep +

Cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma?

 

Diagnosis
A. Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy:
- Gallbladder with no patholoqic abnormality.

B. Liver, (Left Lobe), Wedge Resection:

« ﬁepatocellular carcinoma, Grade Ell/IV

- The tumor measures 2.7 cm in maximal dimension
Carcinmma is present at the cauterized/inked parenchymal margin
in this apecimen (see comment)

— Focal small vessel invasion is seen within the tumox itself
No perineural invasion identified
Cithosis or the surrounding liver parenghyma

Page 2 of 2

C. Liver, (Deep Margin), Excision:
- Negative for hepatocellular carcinoma.

D. Liver, (Final Margin), Excision:
— Negative for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Electronically signed by:
Var-i F1' :14;

Gross Uescription
Received are specimen containers A to h 5“ roouisiticns and specimen containers are

labelled with the patient‘s name, The cassettes and AP identifiers are
Labelled with the Surgical Nunber

A. The specimen is designated "Gallbladder". The specimen is received fresh and is
subsequently placed into formalin and consists of a gallbladder that measures 10.0 x 4.0
x 4.0 cm. Opening the gallbladder reveals approximately 10 ml of dark green bile. The
serosa of the gallbladder appears unremarkable as does the mucosal surface. There are no
stones present. A section of mucosa is submitted in cassette A1.

B. The specimen is designated "HCC tumor left lobe". The specimen is received fresh and
is subsequently placed into formalin and consists of a piece of liver that weighs 43.8 g
and measures 4.0 x 4.5 x 4.0 cm. There is a solitary firm. tan nodule present at the
inked margin of the specimen and this nodule measures 2.7 x 2.7 x 2.5 cm. The surrounding
liver parenchyma is cirrhotic. Random sections of the tumor are submitted in cassettes
Bl to 85. E6 contains uninvolved cirrhotic liver parenchyma.

C. The specimen is designated "Deep margin". The specimen consists of a small fragment
of firm brown tissue that measures 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.2 cm. It is submitted in toto in
cassette Cl.

D. The specimen is designated “Final margin liver lobe left“. The specimen consists of a
firm brown friable tissue that measures 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm. This is submitted in toto in
cassette Dl.

Pathologist Comment
Although tumor is present at the inked margin in specimen "B", the final resection
margins (specimens "C" and "0") are free of tumor.w

Accesszon
Number

Encounter
Number

Patient Location . :

— END OF PRINTED REPORT -

 

 

 

