 

 

 

UUID:01992912-611F-4AA8- -
TCGA-A1- a P 8570 BOSZCBCCAFW

mummiuiiiiiuiiiiisiiiﬁim Redacted
uIiuimimiilimummiiii'iii'i'ii'ii'i'ii'i'i'ii'l'ii'"mm”

I” lllllllllll HlllllllllllllllllHllllHlHllllllllllllllllllll

le-o«3
(’WW mild/MW M ””5 9509/3
37/2: W ms 050.? A) W/Ar/z/

 

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
. Left axilla sentinel lymph nodes, dissection: No tumor (0/3).

A
B. Right medial breast, excision:
1. No tumor.

2. Usual ductal hyperplasia, sclerosing adenosis and calcifications.

C. Right breast, partial mastectomy:

. Invasive ductal carcinoma, 2.2 cm, grade 3; see comment.

. Ductal carcinoma in situ, high nuclear grade with necrosis; see comment.
Note: Breast Tumor Synoptic Comment

NH

— Laterality: Right.
- Invasive tumor type: Invasive ductal carcinoma.
- Invasive tumor size: 2.2 cm.
- Invasive tumor grade (modified Bloom-Richardson):
Nuclear grade: 3 points.
Mitotic count: 3 points.
Tubule/papilla formation: 3 points.
Total points and overall grade = 9 points = grade 3.
— Lymphatic-vascular invasion: None.
- Skin/nipple: Not sampled.
— Margins for invasive tumor: Negative.
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is <0.1 cm away, on slide C7).
- Medial margin: Negative; (tumor is at least 0.8 cm away).
- Lateral margin: Negative; (tumor is at least 2.4 cm away).
— Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide C5).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.3 cm away, on slide C3).
- Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): Comedo and solid.
- Ductal carcinoma in situ size: DCIS present admixed with invasive cancer.
— Ductal carcinoma in situ nuclear grade: High grade.

 

Page I of 5

 

__ Sugiial Pathology - _ _ WorkingQraft

- Necrosis in DCIS: Present.
- Microcaiclﬂcations: Present in DCIS and benign ducts.
- Resection margins for ductal carcinoma in situ: Negative.
- Deep margin: Negative; (tumor is 1.5 cm away, on slide C7).
- Medial margin: Negative.
- Lateral margin: Negative.
~ Anterior/superior margin: Negative; (tumor is 0.6 cm away, on slide C7).
- Anterior/inferior margin: Negative.
- Lymph node status: Negative.
- Number of positive lymph nodes: 0.
- Total number sampled: 3.
- AJCC/UICC stage: pT2NOMX.

Select slides (C2, C3, C4) were also reviewed by Dr. who concurs with the diagnosis.
Immunostains for ER/PR and Her2 neu will be performed the results reported in an addendum.
All margins were oriented, inked and examined microscopically.

Intraoperatlve Consult Diagnosis
F51 (A) Right axilla, sentinel lymph node #1, biopsy: Three lymph nodes, no carcinoma. (Dr.

F52 (8) Right medial fibrosis, rule out carcinoma, biopsy: Fibrocystic change, calcification, no tumor.
(Dr. '

Clinical History

The patient is a year~old woman with a history of right breast adenocarcinoma diagnosed by ﬁne
needle aspiration. She now undergoes right breast partial mastectomy and right sentinel lymph node
biopsy.

Gross Description
The specimen is received fresh in three parts, each labeled with the patient's name and unit number.

Part A, additionally labeled " ," consists of a single soft irregular piece of red-yellow
fibrofatty tissue measuring 3 x z x 0.5 cm (stitch marks highest count). One candidate lymph node is
identiﬁed at the stitched area; this is inked blue. Additionally, two more lymph node candidates are
identiﬁed. Three lymph node candidates are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, and
subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining ﬁbrofatty tissue is submitted in cassette A2.

Part B, additionally labeled " ," consists of a single firm, unoriented, oval piece of
yellow-pink ﬁbrofatty tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.7 x 0.7 cm. One side of the specimen is inked blue
and the opposite side is inked green. The specimen is bread—loafed, and two central representative
sections are submitted for frozen section diagnosis 2, with the frozen section remnant submitted in
cassette Bl. The remaining tissue is submitted in cassettes 82—83.

Part C is additionally labeled " - "
- SPECIMEN TYPE: Partial mastectomy.
- SKIN ELLIPSE: Not present.
- NIPPLE: Not present.
— ORIENTATION:
- Long suture: Lateral.
- Short suture: Superior.
- INKING (for microscopic evaluation):
- Black: Deep.
- Green: Anterior inferior.
~ Blue: Anterior superior.
- SIZE OF SPECIMEN:

 

Page 2 OFS

 

 

__ Surgical Pathologt- Worldngyraft

- Medial-Lateral dimension: 4.3 cm.

- Superior—Inferior dimension: 4 cm.

- Anterior—Posterior dimension: 1.8 cm.
- TOTAL NUMBER OF SLICES: Eight.

~ First slice (slice #1): Medial margin.

- Last slice (slice #8): Latera margin.
- GROSS PATHOLOGY: The specimen consists of a 22 gm partial mastectomy specimen. A tan-pink,
irregular, firm mass is noted in the more superior aspect of the specimen, which measures 1.5 x 0.7 x
0.7 cm. A portion is taken for tissue banking. The mass appears to be present in slices 3-6. The
mass appears to come within <O.1 cm away from the deep and anterior-superior margins in slice 4.
The mass comes within 0.2 cm away from the anterior- inferior margin in slice 3. No localization
needle or specimen mammogram are included in the specimen. Representative sections are submitted
as follows:
Cassette C1: Perpendicular representative sections of medial margin, slice 1.
Cassette C2: Middle slice 2.
Cassettes C3-C4: Closest approach to anterior inferior margin, entire slice 3.
Cassettes C5-C6: Closest approach to deep and anterior superior margins, entire slice 4.

 

Cassette C7: Superior slice 5.
Cassette C8: Middle slice 6.
Cassette C9: Inferior slice 8.
Cassette C10: Perpendicular sections of slice 8, lateral margin.
Pathology Resident /Patholooigr
Signed:
Fee Codes:
Addenda
Addendum. Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: By:
Date Reported:

Addendum Comment
An immunohlstochemical test for estrogen and progesterone receptors was performed by manual
morphometry on block C7.

The test for estrogen receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
internal positive control is present.

The test for progesterone receptors is negative. There is no nuclear staining in any of tumor cells.
Internal positive control is present.

Result of HERZ/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for HERZ/neu oncoproteln over-expression.

An immunohlstochemlcal assay was performed by manual morphometry on block C7 using the C811
monoclonal antibody to HERZ/neu oncoproteln. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 0 on a
scale of 0-3.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for over-expression of
HERZ/neu oncoproteln.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered Indeterminate. We and others have observed that many carcinomas wlt

 

a

Page) or5

. Surgical Pathology - Wai‘MngDraft
staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification. All carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore
submitted for FISH testing. The results of the HSH test are issued directly from the molecular cytogenetlcs laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for over-expression of HERZ/neu oncoproteln. Tumors in

this category show an excellent correlation between the results of lmmunohistochemlcal and FISH testing, and almost always show
gene amplification.

The lmmunnnnmvldarp stalnlsi reported above were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the

, They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration.
me FDA has determined that such clemence or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should
not be regarded as lnvestigatlonal or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualiﬁed to perform high-complexity clinical testing.

ilhologisl
Electronically signed out on

 

Other Specimens

Specimen Class: .‘ Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out: ”
Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
Final Diagnosis
Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Cyst contents; see comment.

 

_Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: A: Right breast scar, B: Right breast, partial mastectomy w/o lymph nodes
'l D o Is

A. Skin, right breast, excision:
1. Skin with scar and surgical site changes.
. No carcinoma.

Right breast, partial mastectomy:
Benign breast tissue.

Surgical site changes.

No carcinoma.

leNf-‘DJ N

 

Specimen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned:
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration
F'nal la n sl

Right Breast, Fine Needle Aspiration: Adenocarcinoma, see comment.

 

 

_3peclmen Class: Status: Signed Out Accessioned
Signed Out:
Specimen(s) Received: Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep imaged

 

Page4 ofS

«Modems as”
.

Surgical Pathologk Working Draft

Eiggl Diagnosis _
Cervical/Endocervical, Thin Prep Imaged

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.

 

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:
Satisfactory for evaluation.
Transformation zone components are present.

 

 

FND OF REPORT Page 5 of5

