Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
BASED ON THE PERFORMED GROSS AND MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

A. Left hilar lymph node, excision:
Metastatic non-small carcinoma with features consistent with
adenocarcinoma.

B. Lymph node, aortic pulmonary window, Level 5, excision:
Metastatic Non-small carcinoma with features consistent with
adenocarcinoma.

involving 3 of 3 lymph nodes.

C. Lung, left upper lobe lung, left upper lobectomy:
Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, extensively necrotic.
- Maximal diameter of tumor, 2.8 cm. - Inked margins of
resection, free of tumor.

- Bronchial margin, free of tumor.

D. Inferior pulmonary ligament lymph nodes, left side, excision:
Three small lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis.
No evidence of neoplasia.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

***Electronically Signed ***

Gross Description:
There are four containers, all labeled with the patient's name, "

A. Container one is additionally labeled "left hilar lymph node". The specimen
is received without fixative and consists of three irregular fragments of
pink-tan to black soft tissue measuring in aggregate 2.6 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm.
Sectioning reveals that the tissue fragments are lymph node fragments with
marked anthracosis. Representative sections of all fragments are submitted in
cassette "".A

B. Container two is additionally labeled "aortic pulmonary window level five".
The specimen is received without fixative and consists of four irregular
fragments of pink-red to black soft tissue measuring in aggregate 1.4 x 1.1 x
0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette "".B

C. Container three is additionally labeled "left upper lobe lung". The

specimen is received without fixative and consists of a left upper lung lobe
measuring 20.4 x 9.5 x 3.7 cm. and weighing 165.5 gm. The pleura shows mild
anthracosis. There is an umbilication of the pleura on the posterolateral

aspect of the lung 7.2 cm. from the apex. This umbilication, which measures 2.2
x 1.5 cm. is inked red. On the medial aspect of the lung, there is a stapled

line which traverses the hilus, with a total length of 7.0 cm. This resection
margin is inked black. The bronchovascular surgical margins are collected, and
the bronchi and vessels are opened beginning at the hilus. No intraluminal
lesions are present. The specimen is serially sectioned. There is a mass
underneath and abutting the umbilicated pleura, measuring 2.8 x 2.6 x 1.5 cm.

The mass has a tan to gray, soft cut surface with central anthracosis and
well-defined pushing borders. It is distant from the stapled resection margins.
The nontumorous lung parenchyma is grossly unremarkable. Four peribronchial
lymph nodes are identified, measuring from 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. up to 2.0 x 1.3 x
1.2 cm. All lymph nodes show a severely anthracotic cut surface with no focal
lesions.

Representative sections are submitted as follows: cassette "C 1" bronchial and
vascular surgical margins; cassettes "C 2" peribronchial lymph nodes; cassettes
"C 35" mass; cassette "C 6" random sections of lung, including stapled
resection margin. Small portions of the mass and normal lung parenchyma are
also submitted to Tissue Procurement.

D. Container four is additionally labeled "inferior pulmonary ligament lymph
node left". The specimen is received without fixative and consists of an
irregular fragment of pink-red to black soft tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.3
cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette ""D.

Taken: -

 

