s

UUID:aasnaAsa-C963-491E-s7a7-A15543F2Fcu7 Date Printed:

  

TCGA-TS-A'IPT-OlA-PR Redacted Date Coilected :
Illlllllllllllllllllllllll ll||||||||||Il|l|ll|||lI|||||||lllllIIlI . S .M! gate-WW .
lllIlllllllllllllIllIIIllIIlIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllll e' yea“ ‘3’“ 5” Pﬁﬁﬁﬁ u
IlllIIIlIIIIllIIIIlIIlIlIIlIllIlIllllllllllllllllllIlIlIllIllll Copyto:

 

‘ [1111811de 53:10:! i

 

 

Addendum Discussion

 

 

Specimen #6: 0,395 .ICAID'O '3 .4 ,
AFB stain for acid fast baciili is negative. Vmé S / 96 52/55

Grocott stain for fungal organism is negative.

W, W Mo‘s

9055/3
5359

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:

(El tr ‘ ' t ‘ ‘
Veriﬁcation Date: CC 0111C Sigma we) SL1 WM!)
geQQ/ZGI/B
I Sergio-a! Patnalaay ﬂavor! l

 

Clinical Information
year old male with no clinical history given; Left Thoracotomy, PDT, Radical Pleurectomy

Final Diagnosis

1. SKlN,PREVlOUS BIOPSY SlTE:

Skin with dermai fibrosis, chronic inflammation and foreign body giant cell reaction consistent with previous biopsy site,
No evidence of residual tumor.

2. Rle
Benign canceitous bone containing scant unremarkable bone marrow elements.
Adherent benign striated muscle and iibroadiposa tissue.

3. POSTERIOR lNTERCOSTAL NODE:
Two of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic bipnasic malignant neOpiasm.
Supported by calretlnln and 02430 immunostalns. '

.4. BASILAR LUNG MODULE:

Benign lung parenchyma with organizing fibrosis. chronic inflammationmeactlve type ll pneumocytes hyperpiasia and
scattered loci of nonvnecrotizing granulomas.

Supported by TTF-t ,CK5/6 and calretinin lmmunostains.

Name Page i of S
MRNT

Date Printed: .
Date Coiiected
Date Received:
years Sex: Mate Accession Noﬁ
Physician:
Copy to:

 
 

 

   

Surgical Patna/"airy sap-art

   

Negative for malignancy.

5. LEVEL 5 MODE:
Fragments of lymph node showing tooi oi ill-defined and well-defined non—necrotizing granuiomas.
No tumor seen.

6. LEVEL 8 MODE:

Fragments of lymph node showing foci of well—defined and ill-defined non—necrotizing granulomas.
No tumor seen. .

AFB stain tor acid fast bacilli and Grocott stain for fungal organism are pending.

7. LEVEL 9 NODE‘.
Fragments of lymph node showing tool of well—defined and ill-defined non-necrotizing granuiornas.
No tumor seen.

8. POSTERlOR HILAR NODE;
Fragments of iymph node showing foci of weii'deiined and tit-deﬁned non~necrotizing granulomas.
No tumor seen.

9. LEVEL 6:
A fragment of benign mature adipose tissue containing scattered lymphoid aggregate.
No lymph ncxzies identified grossly. ,

to. LEVEL 7:
Fragments of lymph node showing foot of well-deﬁned and iii-deﬁned non-necrotizing granuloma.
No tumor seen.

11. RADlCAL PLEURECTOMY:
Poorly differentiated blphasic maiignant neoplasm most consistent with sarcomatoid mesotheiiom a.
Tumor does not invade the adherent iung parenohyma.

12. PEHICARDIUM:
Poorly ditterentiated biphasio maiignent neoplasm most consistent with sarcomatoid mesotheiioma.

i3. POSTEREOH iNTERCOSTAL NUDE:

‘ Name" Page 2 of S
M'RN:

Date Printed:
Date Collected :
Date Received:
Age: years Sex: Mate Accession Noni
Physician: i
Copy to:

 
  

Loc.:

 

I Surgical-Pathology 33.03]! I

.0

One lymph node, no tumorseen.

The case material was reviewed and the report veriﬁed by:
(Electronic signature)
Veriﬁcation Data

Note

lmmunostain with adequate controls preformed on block 11F reveal epitheiioid tumor cells are positive for AEt -3,Pan~
keratin,Calretinin,D2-4O and Mic-2.3pindle cell component of tumor cells are positive for SMA and Mic~2. Both spinidle
cells and epitheliold cells are negative for Bel-2, Desmin,HMB45,Si00.0034,CEA,WT«1,TTF-i ,BRST~2 and CK?.Tumor
cells appear to be aberrantly express TLE and myogenin. Combined morphological and immunological features are
consistent sarcomatoid mesothelioma.

Slides from specimen #11 reviewed by

Frozen Section Diagnosis

F 81 A.B,C: Entire section from previous biopsy scar area shows fibrosis and chronic inﬂammation.
No tumor seen.

Gross Description
The case is received in 13 containers, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.

Specimen #1 is received fresh for frozen section, designated as “Skin Previous Biopsy Site" and consists of a 5.5 x i .0
cm skin ellipse excised to a depth of 2.0 cm. The deep surface is inked black at the time of frozen section. There is an ill-
defined scar on the skin surface; this area is submitted entirely for frozen section as FSiA through F810. The frozen
section controls are submitted in cassettes 1A through 10, respectively an additional representative sections of the
remainder of the Specimen are submitted in cassette iD.

Specimen #2 is received in formalin, designated as “Rib“ and consists of a 2.8 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm ragged an irregular fragment
of tan-white, firm bone which has a small amount of attached adipose tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and
submitted entirely in cassette 2A following decalcification.

Specimen #3 is received in formalin, designated as "Posterior lntercostal Node" and consists of four tan-yellow, irregular
soft tissue fragments ranging from 0.5 to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette 3A.

Name Page 3 of 5
MRN: .

Nam ' Date Printed: .

MRN Date Collected

Date Received:

”Age: years Sex: Male Accession Nazi

.: Physician: ‘ ‘
Copy to:

 
 

LOC

 

   

Surgical Pathology Kﬂﬂall

   

Specimen #4 is received in formalin, designated as “Basilar Lung Module“ and consists of five tan—gray, irregular sott
tissue fragments measuring 0.4. 0.4, 0.5. 0.6 and 0.9 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted in toto in
cassette 4A.

Specimen #5 is received in iormalin, designated as "Level 5 Node" and consists of a 2.2 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm irregular fragment
of tan~yeiiow, rubbery adipose tissue, which is bisected to reveal a gray-black, possible lymph node measuring 1.1 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette 5A.

Specimen #6 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 8 Node" and consists of a 1.4 x 1.1 x 0.7 cm tantgray, rubbery.
possible lymph node, which is bisected to reveal tan-gray, dense cut surfaces. The specimen is submitted entirely in
cassette 6A.

Specimen #7 is received in formalin, designated as “Level 9 Node“ and consists of a 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm tan-yellow to grey-
black, irregular soft tissue fragment, which is bisected to reveal tan-white to grayvblack, dense cut surfaces. The specimen
is submitted entirely in cassette 7A.

Specimen #8 is received in iormalin, designated as “Posterior Hilar Node" and consists of multiple grey black, friable soft
tissue fragments measuring 1 .5 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette 8A.

Specimen #9 is received in formalin, designated as “Level 6“ and consists of a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm tan~yeilow. irregular soft
tissue fragment, which is submitted in toto in cassette 9A.

Specimen #10 is received in formalin, designated as "Level 7" and consists of two gray—black, irregular soft tissue
fragments measuring 0.5 and 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment is bisected and the specimen is
submitted entirely in cassette 10A. _

Specimen #11 is received in formalin, designated as “Radical Pleurectomy" and consists of an unoriented portion of tan-
gray to tan—yellow, lobulated soft tissue, grossly consistent with a portion of pleura. There is 315.5 x 12.0 cm portion
which displays a red-brown, rubbery muscle and tan-white fibrous tissue, grossly consistent with a portion of the
diaphragm (inked black). The remainder of the specimen cannot be oriented grossly, Sectioning reveals multiple tan-
white, whoried, dense nodules and thickened areas measuring up to 12.5 cm in greatest dimension. The remaining cut
surtaces are comprised of tan-yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 11A
through 11F. '

Specimen #12 is received in formalin, designated as "Pericardium" and consists of a 7.2 x 4.3 x 0.6 cm ragged an
irregular tragment oi gray purple, glistening soft tissue. There is an ili~defined 1.8 x 1.3 x 0.8 cm tan—white. firm nodule
which is sectioned to reveal tanvwhite, dense cut surfaces. The nodule is submitted in its entirety in cassette 12A and
additional representative sections are submitted in cassette 128.

Specimen #13 is received in formalin, designated as “Posterior intercostal Node" and consists of a 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm tan“
yellow, regular fragment of soft tissue, which is bisected to reveal tan-yellow, glistening cut surfaces. The specimen is

Name: Page 4 of 5
MRN

Date Printed: .
Date (inﬂected
Date Received:
Ace: years Sex: Male Accession N01
Loc.: Physician:
Copy to:

  

 

‘ surging! Fat/Inlay! 5830f! I

submitted entirely in cassette 13A.

Dictatcd by:

Pathologisﬂs)

{’w 1;; bx 01(0th

V ﬂeﬁ 3W I“- If"
M .

V2:
T
HIDM
Pnnl

Case is

Inn‘uls

Reviewed:

 

Page 1 of 1

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form 4.05

 

 

 

 

 

Quality Control Form

Initial Pathoiogy Report

Provide the reason for the
discrepancy between the
pathology report and the TCGA

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

Study Subﬁect ID: Person ID: N/A
Study/Site: TCGA Mesotheiioma - Age: N/A
Event: PathDiscrepancy Date of Birth:
Interviewer: Sex: M
Tumor Identifier Provided on Initial Case Provide the tumor identiﬁer documented on the initial case quality

control form for this case.

Pathologic Diagnosis Provided on biphasic Provide the diagnosis] histologic subtype(s) documented on the initial pathoiogy report

for this case. If the histoiogy for this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.

Histologic features of the sample provided for epitheiioid Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case Quality
TCGA. as reflected on the CQCF

Control Form compieted for this case.

Submitted specimen is epitheliold while the Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis
clinical frozen specimen reviewed for diagnosis on the initiai pathology report for this case is
showed sarcomatoid as weil; Pathology report not consistent with the diagnosis selected on

Case Quality Control Form indicates diagnosis of biphasic. the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
Name of TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this
Biorepository Director case for TCGA.

