Reporting pathologist(s): CONSULTANT.

Sample (TYPE UNSPECIFIED) Collected
Received
HISTOLOGY
HISTOLOGY ED J) .3

SPECIMEN OE 9 WM) “Maud”!!! #05 8525/3
A-Bladder&prostate. 64-h WMMOS @4777

B - Peri-bladder nodes.

C - Right external iliac node. qt") 5/‘971 L}
D - Right anterior obturator node.
E - Right posterior obturator node.
F - Left external lIlaC node. uum gggﬁgjgﬁ “3511:3333" ‘7‘5Am7‘5a
G - Leﬁ anterior obturator node. II

_ IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIICIImI
+ I IIIIIIIIIIIIII 'IIIIIII"""“"
J _ Right “tactic margin. ; IIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIlIlIIIIII

 

 

CLINICAL DETAILS

Radical cystoprostatectomy for G3 pT2 TCC diagnosed at
Vzm wfjwtbnrss 91'1“.be—
MACROSCOPY 9T3 W” m Wm.

A - Cystoprostatectomy specimen with bladder approximately 50 mm in
diameter, attached adipose tissue 112 mm x 60 mm. Prostate measuring
35 mm supero-inferiorly x 45 mm lateral x 28 mm anterior-posterior.
Opened for research sampling.

The right side of the bladder has an indurated and ulcerated area
measuring 20 mm maximum with associated pale ﬁrm tumour extending
into adjacent adipose tissue and coming close to the anterior and

right surgical margin (blue ink). Elsewhere bladder mucosa appears
normal.

The prostate shows a minor degree of nodular hyperplasia.

Blocks: A1 = urthra RM; A2 = left side prostate; A4,5,6 & 7 =
composite slices of tumour; A8 = tumour; A9 & A10= right side bladder
(composite); All = apex; A12 = anterior and left; A13 = bladder neck.

B - Adipose tissue 60 mm, containing ? 3 LNs. Two of them are dense
and white with tumour, max size 9 mm.
1 LN per cassette.

C — Two pieces of adipose tissue, together measuring 65 mm, containing
a LN.

Blocks: Cl & C2 = l LN.

D - Fatty tissue measuring 40 mm, containing 1 large and 1 small LN.
Blocks: D1 = small LN; D2 & D3 & D4 = large LN.

E - Fatty tissue measuring 60 mm, containing ? 2 LNs.

F - Fatty tissue measuring 50 mm, containing 2 LNs.
Blocks: F1 = 1 LN; F2 & F3 = 1 LN.

G - Fatty tissue measuring 60 mm, containing 2 LNs.
H - Fatty tissue measuring 40 mm, containing 2 LNs.
I - 5 mm length of ureter.

J - 9 mm length of ureter.

MICROSCOPY

A - Bladder and prostate: Sections from the macroscopically
identiﬁed lesion conﬁrm a poorly differentiated predominantly solid
urothelial carcinoma extending with discohesive clusters the entire
thickness of the bladder wall into the perivesical fat. The tumour
extends to less than 1 mm of the circumferential surgical resection
margin on the right side which is composed of compressed soft tissue.
There is no lymphocytic inﬁltrate at the tumour host interface.

Sections away from the main tumour mass contain foreign body-type
multinucleated giant cell aggregates in the lamina propria indicative
of site of previous biopsy.

Lymphovascular invasion is noted.
There is no perineural invasion.

The adjacent urothelium does not show evidence of dysplasia or
carcinoma in situ. There is tumour and ulceration.

Sections of the prostate conﬁrm high grade PIN but there is no

evidence of microacinar adenocarcinoma. Some of the acinar structures
contain a chronic inﬂammatory cell inﬁltrate with an occasional

giant cell and is most likely to represent reaction to BCG. The
urothelium included does not show any evidence of dysplasia, carcinoma
in situ or a papillary urothelial carcinoma.

The urethral stirgical margin is within morphologically normal limits.

B - Peri-bladder nodes: Two lymph nodes, both with metastatic
urothelial carcinoma. One node shows extracapsular extension.

C - Right external iliac node: One lymph node without metastatic

carcinoma.

D- Right anterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with ﬂorid sinus
hyperplasia. No metastatic carcinoma

E - Right posterior obturator nodes: Two nodes without metastatic
carcinoma.

F - Left external iliac nodes: Two lymph nodes with sinus
hyperplasia. No metastatic carcinoma.

G — Left anterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with no metastatic
carcinoma.

H - Left posterior obturator nodes: Two lymph nodes with no
metastatic carcinoma.

I - Left ureteric margin: This is morphologically normal ureter.
J - Right ureteric margin: This is morphologically normal ureter.
SUMMARY (Parts A - J)

Poorly differentiated ulcerated urothelial carcinoma pT3b le R0 (but
close circumferential margin on the right side).

 

