UUID: AABSDIFB- 4855- 4D95- -BSEE- 4752335
TCGA- OR- ASJD- 61A “Bald

 

IlllllllIllllll"llIlllllllllIllHlllllllllllllllllllllllklllllllllcllenl
IllllIlllllllllllHlllllHlllllllll II
I“ [III II III! II I ll llllllllll ”lull” l llllllﬂllllmllllgﬂllﬂlllll: ill

ﬂ®£m3
rm", adrenal whoa], omega!

Requesting Doctor's information:

 

ha
, C werhun/{utknoam lawman-33 3370/ I
‘ ' " Sﬁwﬁirgmj salami ear—lac o74.z>

spemnsn was: Adrenal Mass 450 ‘1501‘ 5

CLlNlCAL NOTES:
L) adrenal tumour. Cancer?

MACHOSCOPlC:

’Adrenal mass’. The specimen consists of an encapsulated partly tabulated tan
tumour 98 x 90 x 80mm, with an attached portion of fibre-fatty tissue. 130 x

45 x 10mm. The specimen has been incised prior to receipt. The specimen
weighs 2649. The cut surlace of the tumour shows it to have a homogenous tan
appearance with areas cystic change (?necrosis), haemorrhage and yellow patchy
areas. There appears to be a residual rim of normal adrenal gland present, 20
x 10 x 15mm. The tumour appears enclosed by the capsule.

Blocks 1-3: tumour to adjacent adrenal gland and fatty tissue

Block 4: tumour to adjacent fatty tissue

Blocks 5,6: tumour to capsule

Block 7: tumour to latty tissue

Block 8: tumour to capsule

Blocks 9 to 13: further blocks of tumour predominantly from the centre of the
specimen to sample areas of possible necrosis

<QGFC3$43>U

MECROSCOPIC:

The 98 mm tumour is an adrenoccrtical qncpcytic neoplasm pest classified as an
admonlcaLoncocW The tumour is composed of oncocytic cells
and much of it displays a diffuse sheet-like architecture. While some of the
tumour cells are relatively small and bland, others show bizarre nuclear

atypia. These bizarre cells have very large and irregular nuclei and display
macronucleoli Many show intranuclear pseudoinclusions.

 

The tumour appears confined to the adrenal gland. Although close to vessels
and sinusoidal spaces. no unequivocal vascular space invasion is identified.
Some necrotic tissue is noted very focally (block At 2) but true coagulativo
tumour necrosis is absent. There is no signiﬁcant mitotic activity (mitotic

rate less than 5 per 50 hots) however a Ki—67 stain demonstrates some
proilferative activity (Kip? proliierative index approximately 5%). No

atypical mitoses are identified.

T
3
it]!
i
C
A
i.

in many areas the tumour directly underlies the capsule of the adrenal gland
and this capsule with is approximately 0.2 mm in thickness' is what separates
the tumour from the inked surface (presumed resection margin)

The lmmunohistochemical profile of the tumour is typical of adrenocortlcal

 

 

Odéiﬁﬁu

 

Requesting Doctor’s information:

 

 

 

 

SPEClMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

‘origin and is as follows:
Melan A: Positive
Calretinnin: Positive

AEt IAE3 - negative.
Chromogranin - negative.
Synaptophysln - Negative.
8100 - negative.

HMS-45 - negative.

COMMENT:

Most adrenal cortical neoplasms of this size and weight are malignant. Using
the Weiss scoring system i would give this a score of 3 out of 9 (with points

for high nuclear grade, diffuse architecture and non-clear cell composition).
This is in the malignant range and the tumour can therefore be classified as an
adrenocorﬁcal carcinoma using conventional criteria. i

However there is recent evidence (summarised in Flat: Bisceglia M, Ludovico 0,
Di Mania A at at Adrenooortical oncocytic tumours: Report of 10 casesand
review on the literature. lntemational Journal of Surgical Pathology; July
2004; 13(3) 231-243) that adrenocortlcel oncooytlo tumours are relatively
indolent and should not be classified according to the same criteria as
conventional adrenocortical tumours. Using the criteria proposed in Elsceglia
et al's paper the tumour would considered at least of “uncertain malignant
potential“ or “borderline“ due to its large size and perhaps malignant
(depending on interpretation of the area of possible necrosis in block At 2).

it certainly could not be considered benign and l would be reluctant to '
entertain a benign diagnosis given its size and bizarre cellular atypia.

Therefore, regardless of wheﬂter Weiss’s original classiﬁcation of Bisceglla’e
scheme is used. it appears best to classify the tumour as a carcinoma .
particulany until further is known about the natural history of adrenocortical
oncocytic neoplasms. The alternative diagnosis would be a tumour of "Uncertain
malignant potential“. l would be interested in . . . _ , ‘ , , ,

pinion on this unusual case and will forward
slides to him for his expert opinion.

SUMMARY:

Left adrenal tumour". Adrenocortical oncocytic carcinoma (see comment). An
additional report will be issue after ’ as reviewed the
case.

 

 

 

Page 2 are

 

 

 

3 Where ’COIlected’ indicates Rec:

 

<QOVO$~4$ t

n< ﬁUF‘CDEs-“tiwv V‘ﬁ'ﬁmgos-‘IFZF

 

 

Requesting Doctor's information:

 

 

SPEClMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

1393000 M60108
ADDITIONAL REPORT:

as follows:

1'

COMMENT:
RESULTS ~ PARAFFIN lMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:

AEl/AEB - NEGATIVE

CALRETINlN - POSITIVE

CHROMOGRANiN - NEGATIVE; POSITIVE INTERNAL CONTROL
HMB~45 ~ NEGATIVE ' ’

K3437 - POSITIVE (~5%)

MELAN~A - POSITIVE _

SYNAPTOPHYSIN - NEGAFVE; POSITIVE INTERNAL CONTROL
8-100 - NEGATIVE; POSITIVE? INTERNAL CONTROL

interpretation: The above immunostains show that the neoplastic cells are
positive for cairetinin and melan-A, with negative staining for epithelial

markers (AEilAEs), and neurogenlc markers (chromogranln, synaptophysin, and
8-100) — consistent with an adrenal cortical primary (calretlnln,-96%; melon—A.
89%). Ki-67, the proliferation index marker also shows scattered positivity at
approximately 5%. '

Further discussion of these findings is listed below.

NOTE: Oncocyllc tumors originating from the adrenal cortex are extremely rare
with just under 40 cases reported so far. So, the question of how to evaluate
such tumors for risk of aggressive behavior may be somewhat problematic. For
nonpncocytic adrenal neoplasms, the most widely used and reliably accepted
method tor such analysis is the Weiss system, as noted in your letter. in this
particular system. a combination of 9 histiologic features are evaluated

( nuclear grade lll~lV, mitotic rate >5 per 58 HPF, atypical mitosis, clear cell
composition 525% of the entire tumor mass, diffuse architecture, necrosis,
venous invasion, sinusoidal invasion, and capsular invasion), each with a
parameter scored 0 when absent and 1 when present with a total Weiss score from
0 to 9. The presence of 2 of these criteria is considered allowable in benign

 

 

emcecxeee

Drﬁmebp Wbﬁmgé432b

 

{Requesting Doctor’s information:

 

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

tumors while the presence of 3 or greater criteria is indicative of malignancy.
There has been some suggestion of giving some criteria more weight than others,
in particular the diagnosis oi malignancy would probably be warranted by the
presence oi high mitotic activity, atypical mitoses, and venous invasion- -even

in isolation. These latter criteria would merit designation as major criteria.

Oi course, as was mentioned in your letter, about a decade ago Erlandon and
Router and Saseno et al, and others since, described small series of
adrenccortical oncocylic tumor cases where the question is raised regarding
this subset of adrenooortical neoplasms speciﬁcally questioning whether the
Weiss system is applicable to this particular subset. in particular, these
oncocytic neoplasms start out with 3 positive criteria (composition of greater
than 75% eosinophilic cells, high nuclear grade, and diffuse architecture),
enough to be designated as “malignant" by the Weiss system Yet, follow-up
studies show a more benign course. Clearly then, the criteria for this
particular subset needed to be re-evaluated.

We therefore have proposed the following modiﬁcations to the Weiss criteria:

1. Major criteria: if an oncocytlc tumor exhibits a mitotic rate of more
than 5 mitosis per 50 high-powered fields, any atypical mitosis, or venous
invasion. it' Is considered malignant.

2. Minor criteria: if the tumor exhibits 1 of several other worrisome
features (large size [>1ccm and/or >2009m], necrosis, capsular invasion. or
sinusoidal invasion), the tumor Is considered of uncertain malignant potential
(Borderline)

:3. ll none of the above-listed features are present. it is reasonable to call
the tumor benign.

To summarize the presence cl 1 major criten'on indicates malignancy (oncocytio
adrenccortloal carcinoma), 1 to 4- minor criteria present indicate uncertain
potential (borderline), and the absence of all major and minor criteria is
indicative of benignanoy (adrenooortlcal cncocytcma).

As tar as this particular case is concerned, the H&E~secﬁons shows an adrenal
tumor largely composed of oncocytic cells lorming a diffuse sheet-like
architecture. Most of the tumor cells range from small and bland to medium
sized cells with mild to moderate pleomorphlsm. The immunostains show that

 

 

 

 

hogs 4 silo ,

 

 

 

:1 Where 'Collected' indicates Rec:

 

<QOPOIMBoL~W_

«harbiwwo rbﬁ—ﬁoqbzs

 

I Requesting Doctor’s Intorrnation:

 

SPECiMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

these neoplastic cells are positive for cairetinin and melon-A. with negative
staining for epithelial markers (AE1/AE3), and neurogenlc markers
(chromogranin, synaptophysin, and 8-100) - consistent with an adrenocortical
primary (calretinin, 96%; melan-A. 89% in adrenocortlcal tumors). Of some
concern, however, there are fairly common local areas where high concentration
of very large, pieomorphlc, and even bizarre tumor cells are noted. These
bizarre cells have very large and irregular nuclei with prominent macronucleoil
and occasional intranuciear pseudoinciuslons. Hare focal areas of questionable
non-coagulative necrosis are also noted (Block A—t 2). However no clear
evidence of vascular or capsular invasion is identified and the mitotic rate is
less than 5 mitosis per 50 high-powered ﬁelds (no atypical mitotic figures
identiﬁed). it is noted that the KFGT MIME somewhat eleyggdigut

We do not feel this is high enough to meet major critena"(p6Fhaps more
consistent with bordeﬁiﬁpoten’rtal}. The large size of the tumor (264 grams)
does meet one of the minor criteria and suggests at least borderline potential.
We therefore find that the diagnosis oi onoocytic adrenocortical neoplasm of
uncertain biological behaviour is most consistent with the available data on

this most unusual and interesting neoplasm.

 

 

 

Thank you again for sending us this most interesting case for consultation.

Reference:

Michele Bisceglia, Omelta Ludovico, Antonio Di Mattie, David Ben-Dar, Judith
Sandbak, Glanandrea Pasquinelli, Sean K. Lau, and Lawrence Weiss,
Adrenocortical Oncocytic Tumorsﬂeportof to cases and review oi the
literature, international Journal of Surgical Pathology, 12(3);231v243,2004.

DIAGNOSIS:

ADRENAL TUMOR, LEFT SIDE: ._

~ONCOCYTiC ADRENOCORTICAL NEOPLASM OF UNCEHTAiN BlOLOGiCAL BEHAVIOR (SEE
COMMENT)

i

crosses weaneoeszs

-< C) O i" 0 :i‘.‘ .4 35' 'O“O'3d"ti’§

 

Requesting Doctor’s Information:

 

 

 

.a v. ":2- :

 

SPECIMEN TYPE: Adrenal Mass

REPOFmNG PATHOLOGIST:
(Eiectronic Signature)

Ham - 5J1}? NV Md .
WWW vadwrar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Criteria A) it”) p \u I Nu é
Dmgnosis Di::mp-Illcv L_.. ' ; ~
Primary Iumov Sula Disumpancy I
HIVAADiscrmancy E
Pris! Mmignlncy Hu § ‘7
DI:al/5vn:tmr.o.-s '
Caren: {£5319}: q1.ALII':m 7.1 an Eb: i 2F“—
[Jm‘xfwuumdals ‘ FR. w rm .u J /
,7“! ‘—“‘l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 Where ‘Colleclad' indicates Rec:

 

<QOWOIw-i? "t

«ﬂawﬁiqu Pbﬁ~§04%2%

