 

 

 

UUID $560,182?— lAﬂigéll-ﬁgiAA—lﬁ: -AFA59C656a9e9 d
l llllllllllll

ll Illllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllll|l||||||l||l
II llllll Ill
Illlllll‘lll‘lllllllll'lll'll'llllllllll'llllllmmum"

 

acted
lllll

 

 

Collected:
Received:
Reported:
SURGICAL PA

  

   

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right pelvic lymph node, excision:
One lymph node, negative for metastatic disease.
Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed.

B. C: Uteme wiih bilateral adnexa. hysterectomy with bilateral salplngo-c
Tumor histologic type: Leiomyosarcome-
Location: Tumor involves the let! pareovarlen tissue as well

 

     

THOLOGY REPORT

lophorectomy.

uterus.

Size: 7.2 x 53 x 2.2 om adieoemto ovary, 13.5 x 9.5 x 8.7 cm Emir: uterus.

Lymphovaemiar space invasion not identiﬁed

Surgical margln stem: Tumor extend: throughout the myo atrium

Other: Portions of residual leﬂ ovarian tissue and fallopian

into the seromI space and focally into the left parametriai tissue.

identiﬁed

Right ovary and fallopian tube present with hysterectomy. uninvolved by timer.

The tumor extends into cervical tissue.
pm sage: 9T2!) N0 (F160 ml).

D. Upper vaglne. biopsy
lnﬁltratlve tumor present throughout soft tissue.

E. Left pelvic lymph nodes excision:
Three lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease.

F. Left pawnotrium, biopay:

lnﬁllrative tumor present within soft ﬁssure;
G. Cervix sarcasm

Negative for tumor.
H. Uterine mmor, biopsy:

lnﬁltraﬁva armor.

l. Left pelvic lymph nodes excision:
Two lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

J. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision:
Six lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

K. Right pariaorlic lymph nodes excision:
Three lymph nodes. negative for metastatic disease.

Ll Left peﬁeonic lymph n odes, excision:
Four lymph nodes, negative for metastatic disease.

M. Omenmm. excision:
Negative for rumor.

Electronic; Signature:

COMMENTS:
Appropriately contrasted immumhistomemiml stains performed on block:

Smooth Muscle Adm: Fooelly weekly positive in tumor.
Desmin: Slronly positive in tumor.
Caldmmnn' Sims-raw msirlve in tumor.

[CA~d"§
)aimwusm, N05 88‘50/3
9+» “fMWSJNos (55.7

6230/] o

: 52 and (:5 show the following results:

 

 

 

PM“ -w. m ,.,....._...._..._.........-. .. . Wm... .-

 

7‘. WM...“ mc.w....__..-~m_

inhibln: Negative in tuner.
Calretinin: Negative in tumor.
Vlmentin: Negative in tumor.
3100: Negative in tumor.
Pancytokeratin: Negative in tumor.

 

CLINICAL HlB‘YORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosis:
SymptomsiRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Right pelvic lymph node frozen section
B. Let! tube and ovary frozen section

C. Uterus and righttube and ovary frozen section
0. Upper vagina

E. Lott pelvic lymph node

F. Left pamernum

G. Cervix

H. Uterine tumor

i. Let! pelvic lymph node

J. Right pelvic lymph nodes

K. Right penaortic lymph node

L Lott periaortic lymph node

M. Omenturn

 
   

GROSS DESCRlP'l‘iOM
A. Part A received labeled and #1 is a 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.3 cm irregular tan soft tissue consistentwlth probable lymph node with attached
adipose tissue which is submitted in toto for frozen section. The frozen ~ - ... residue is submitted in one cassette labeled

 

 

   
 
    
    
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
   
  

B. Part 8 received iabeied and #2 - Left tube and ovary : section is a 7.2 x 5.8 x 2.2 cm aggregate ofgray~wbite to tan~pink ﬁrm
tissue and yellow adipose tissue. The specimen cannot be oriented. Th . cut surface of the tissues constant gmy-wh'rte-tah softtiscue. There is a
minimal amount of residual tan-pink ovarian strome with gray-white oo - -r‘al albioene. Attached to one of the tissues is a 2&3 x 0.5 cm inundated
fallopian tube with a tan some with two paratubal cysts averaging 02 . in greatest dimension and a pinpoint lumen. The specimen is serially
sectioned and representative sections are submitted for frozen section. e frozen section residue is submitted in block 1. Additional representative
sections are submitted in blocks 2-6 labeled Also race u in the same container is a green and yellow cassette labeled

for genomic research shady.

C. PartCmoetvedlabetet .nom—Utemcdghttubea- ovaryisaswgrampreviomlyopeneohyetemnyspemnoonsisﬁngar
an11.7x10.5x7’2a'nutaﬁnebodyandanattached 3.5x2.7x2.5orn bcTherightovaryandfalloplanmbeareattadtedtomeoomu.

 

The aerosol is smooth and tampink. The ectocerle is smooth and gray its to pink. The as cannot be appreciated. The endocenrical canal is tan and
2.8 cm in length. The endometrlal cavity cannot be appreciated. Tm — a 13.5 x 9.5 x 3.7 cm tabulated to poiypoid. gray-white to tan~yellmw mass
which diffusely involves the uterine body and extends to the cervix. The . surface of the mass consists offocally hemorrhagic lobulated gray-white sol!
tissue. The man diffusely involves the underlying myometrirm, extendi . through the men. with a depth of 4.5 cm. The mace appears to involve the
left pammetrium.
No obvious uninvolved endometrium is identiﬁed. There is a minimal .» of residual tan-pink trabeculated myometrlwn.

The 2.1 x 1.1 x 0.8 cm right ovary has a iooulated tannin]: outer surface. The cut surface is tan with gray-white corpora abicane. The attached 4.8 x 0.5
cm limbriated right fallopian tube has a red-broom some with multiple ., tubal cysts averaging 0.1 cm in greatest Woolen and a pinpoint lumen.

The specimen is inked serially sectioned and representative sodium are submitted for frozen sodium and the frozen residue is submitted in block 1.
Additional representative sections are submitted as labeled: Block 2. r «roervix; Block 3 Posterior cervix: Block 4. Anterior lower uterine segment:
Block 5 Footedor lower uterine segment: Blades 6 and 7. Anterior futh‘ e35 mass, mama Blocks 8 and 9. Posterior full-«thickness mass, blooded:
Block 10. Mass; Block 11 Lert parameoium: Block 12. Right para »- - :Bioclc 13. Right ovary and fallopian tube The blocks are labebd

Also wou'nred' in the same container is a blue cassette labeled for genomic research study.

B Part D received in fommlln labeled and #4 - Uppervag e is a 5.5 x 3.8 x 2.1 cm irregular shaggy tamyellow soft tissue which is
partially surfawd by a Wile to tan mucosa. The cut surface canals of a 3.5x 2.4 x 1.7 an “inclined graymhite to red area. The specimen is
inked. serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in bi 1~3 labeled

E. Part E received in formaan labeled and #5 - Len pelvic lymph node are two irregular ﬁbroadipose tissues measuring 2.8 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm

 

 

 

 

and 3.7 x 2.1 x11) cm. The tissues are semened to reveal three irregu
1.3 x 0.4mm 3.7 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. Representative sections are subm
node bisected in each. The blocks labeled

F. Part F received in formalin labeled

surface of the tissue consists of hemorrhagic gray-while soft tissue. Th:

ono masons labeled
G. Part G recehnad in formalin labeled I

tan—yellow ﬁrm tissues consistent with probable lymph node ranging from 1.5 x
to include the lymph nodes in their enliroty as labeled: Block: 141. One lymph

and #6 - Lea pararrbtrium is a 7.6 x 7.3 x 1.5 cm aggregate rattan-yellow to red soft tissue. Tho cut

specimen is serially sectloned and representative sections are submitted in

1d #7 - Cervix is a 3.5 x 1.8 x 1.4 cm irregular shaggy lan solttiosuo which is partially surfaced

by a gray-while to tan mum The orientation of the madman is not ocmpletely obvious. The specimen is serially soolioned and repmentaﬁva

sections are submitted in blocks 1 and 2 labeler

H. Part H received In formalin labeled
. oonslsor of hemorrhagic white salt tissue. Ina specimen is serially

l. Part I rooelved in formalin labelec
tamed ﬁrm tissues consistent with probable lymph node measuring 0.8
in its onllroly a: labeled: Blocks 1 and 2. One lymph node bisected in

J. Part J received in formalin labelet
multiple tan—yellow ﬁrm lissues oonsrsmnl with probable lymph node to
lymph node is pork-whit: consistent with probably positlve lymph node.

labeled: Block 1. Two whole probable lymph nodes: Block 2. One whale
Representative section of probable positive lymph node. The blooks are

K. Part K receivm in formalin labels 1 ad #11 ‘ Right
multiple tau—yellow ﬁrm tissue: consistent with probable lymph node ran

representative sections are submitted to include the lymph nodes in their

are labeled

L Part L received ln formalin labeled
four irregular tan-yellow ﬁrm tissue. consistent with probable lymph

sodium-d and representative seams are submitted to include the lymp
Blocks 2 arm 3. Doc lymph node bisected in each; The blocks are labe

M. Port M received in formalin labeled

and #6 - maxim?“ is a 4.8 x 3.1 x 1.9 om irregular tan-red to green soft tissue. The cut surface

   
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
 

and #12 - Left pens

nod and a represenlaﬂve W is submitted in one cassette labeled

7 x 0.40m and 1.5:: 1.1 x0.4oml The emotion is sectioned and sum-rifled
; Block 3. Remainder of tissue: The blocks are labeled

and #9 ~ Len politician node is a 3.4 x 2.6 x 0.8 cm aggmgale ufﬁbroadlpose tissue bearing m
0.

 

nd #10 - Right pelvi : lymph node is a 5.2 x 3.5 x 0.8 cm aggregate otﬁbmadlpose tissue bearing

from 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm to 2.5 x 2.2 x 0.7 cm. The cut surface of the largest
ospecimoniosedionedamlmpmoenlativosocﬁonsarosubmiﬂodas
toggle lymph node; Blades 36. One lymph om bisected in each; Block a.

the lymph node is a 4.1 x 2.6 x 0.7 om irregular ﬁbroadipose tissue bearing
9 from 0.7 x 0.5 x 03 an to 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 m. The specimen is sedioned and
nlirety as labeled: Blocks 143. One lymph node bisected in each. The blocks

' lymph node is a 2.8 x 2.4 x 0.7 cm aggregate of ﬁbroadlpose tissue bearing
ranging from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 om to 1.5 x0.9 x04 cm The specimen is
nodes in their entlroty are labeled; Block 1. Two whole probable lymph nodes;

id #13 Omentum 's a 44.5 x 153 x 1.3 an irregular ﬁbroadipose tissue oonsistant with omeotum.

The cut surface consists of predominaooy yellow looulaled adipose 05311 with a scant amount of gray-while ﬁbrous hallo. No lesions are identiﬁed.

The speahren is serially soctioned and reprmnlaﬁve sections are subrn

in blocks 14 labeled

 

 

 

 

Case is

 

 

  

 

«hwy

  

