 

     

  

Report Status: Amend/Addenda

 

Accession Number: ~---' 'vaﬁ
Type: Surgical Pathology

speCimen Type: iiiliillliiiliiliiliiifl reseccion

Procedure Date;
CASc: '¢£;.nﬂ:e in” ‘
PATI EN‘] . .mGA _ CZ — 5454

Ordering Provide
********** *t‘ktink'k‘kt‘ki

 
 
 

 

  

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. RIGHT NEPHRECTOMY (16709):
RENAL CELL CARCINOMA, clear cell t e, 15.1 cm,
Fuhrman nuclear grade II/lV.

Tumor is limited to kidney.
Vascular. ureteric, and soft tissue resection margins are negative for tumor.

Lymphovascular invasion is present but tumor does not involve the renal vein.
AJCC Classification (6th Edition): T2 N0 MX.

The non—neoplastic kidney will be evaluated by Renal Pathology, and the

findings will be reported in an addendum.

B. INFRA-AORTIC VENA CAVAL LYMPH NUDE:
Three (3) lymph nodes with expanded folliclés and lipid—laden

histiocytes within interfollicular areas; negative for tumor.

Immunoperoxidase studies performed on'paraffin—embedded sections
reveal a mixed population of CD3-positive/CDS-positive/CD43~pcsitive
T cells and CD20wpositive B cells, with B cells predominating in
follicles and T.cells most concentrated in the interfollicular areas.
The B cells are negative for CD5 and CD43. CD10 highlights B cells
of the germinal centers. Bclnz is negative in the germinal center

B cells and positive in T cells and B cells of the mantle zone.

CD43 is eXpressed on T cells and plasma cells with no aberrant
expression on B cells. The B cells and plasma cells appear to be
polytypic for kappa and lambda light chain expression.

The overall findings are consistent with a reactive process.
Diagnostic features of a lymphoproliferative disorder are not see .

'This portion of the case was also reviewed by Dr. _

Hematopathology Serv1ce, who concurs.

CLINICAL DATA:

‘History: None given.
Operation: Right radical nephrectomy, regional lymph node dissectign’/"

Operative Findings: None given.

.Clinical Diagnosis. Right renal mass.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A/l. Right kidney-tissue bank.
B/Z. Infra aorta vena cava lymph node.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh in two parts, each labeled with the patient's

name and unit number.

Part A, "#1. Right kidney", consists of a 1670—gram right nephrectomy specimen
(28.5 x 14.7 x 9.5 cm) to include a right kidney (21.0 x 9.9 x 5.5 cm), renal
vein (1.1 cm in length x 0.9 cm diameter), renal artery (2.0 cm in length x 0.5
cm in diameter) and ureter'(7.3 cm in length x 0.3 cm in diameter). The entire
left side of the specimen is inked black and the specimen is bisected to reveal
a single focally cystic tan/yellow to tan/pink, hemorrhagic mass (15.1 x 10.9 x
6.2 cm) located in the lower pole, abutting the kidney capsule with no gross
evidence of invasion of the capsule. The mass comes to within 9.0 cm of the
ureteric resection margin, 5.8 chto the artery and 4.1 cm to the vein. There
is no evidence of tumor extending into the vein, artery, ureter or perinephric

 

 

mmmmmmmmmnmmﬂmwnmmmmumWWmc-axmnmamomm

.CGA—CZ—5454

 

 

 

    

, ,7 , v 7- , . - -. r “xv m‘ “Ni-5511mm“
Accession Number: m Report Status: Final
Type: Cytogenetios
CASE: -: . ~

PATIENl IN

KARYOTYPE} x1:43,x¥,add(l}(q21).psu dic t3;1)(p21;p11),+7,+20[5}
K2:4s,xy K3: 45.xrtsl

  
 

   

 

METAPHASES COUNTED: 15 ANALYZED: 15 SCORED: 0 BANDING: GTG

INTERPRETATION:
Three different specimens were received and analyzed from this tumor.

All metaphases contained clonal aberrations including loss of the short arm of
chromosome 3 which is a characteristic finding in renal cell carcinoma, clear

cell type.

No cytogenetic aberrations were identified in metaphases analyzed from

specimens T2 and T3.

COMMENTS:
Mosaicism and small chromosome anomalies may not be detectable using the

standard methods employedl Chromoeome analysis was performed at a level of 400
bands or greater.

INDICATION FOR TEST:
? RCC

 

 

