UUID:8F364931-727D-4099-A1m-E96C614l§1e479ac
TCGA- WR- A838- 01A- PR

IIIII|||||||I||||||||||||||||||||I|||I||lII||||||||||R|||||||a||c||tad
||||||||||||||||I|||||||||||||||HIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #:
LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: F DATE RECEIVED:
DOB: TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: . DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:
IdiD - b - 3
A: anterior abdominal wall peritoneum .
B: omentum C WW, W 2441/5

C: portion of left tube and ovary ©

D: small bowel mesentery nodule @

E: right cuI-de-sac tumor waﬁz' 0’ 5G 0,
F: pelvic peritoneum 437’s 1/ I&// Ll
G: uterus and cervic; right fallopian tube and ovary; reto-sigmoid colon

H: small bowel tumor nodules

I: portion of proximal colon

J: donut

K: peri-appendeceie tumor

L: small mesentary nodule

M: small bowel @ 1300

N: right diaphragmatic pleura and partial right hepatic capsule

O: posterior common duct node

P: gallbladder

Q: portal peritoneum

year-old female with a clinical history of pelvic masses.

A. F ibroadipose tissue, "anterior abdominal wall peritoneum", excision:
There is no evidence of malignancy.

8. Omentum, omentectomy:
High grade serous carcinoma.

C. Ovary, "portion of left tube and ovary', salpingo-oophorectomy:
High grade serous carcinoma. See comment.

D. Soft tissue. "small bowel mesentery nodule", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

E. Soft tissue, "right cuI-de-sac tumor", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

F. Soft tissue, "pelvic peritoneum", excision:
MR #: Page 1 of 6

Date of Printing: ‘ SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Num bar:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #:

 

High grade serous carcinoma.
Lymph node (1): There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1 ).

G. Uterus. cervix, right fallopian tube and ovary. and retrosigmoid colon, resection:
High grade serous carcinoma involving the right ovary, right fallopian tube, uterine serosal surface, and the colonic
serosal surface.

Uterus
Endometrium: benign endometrial polyp.
Myometrium: Leiomyomata
Cervix: No diagnostic abnormalities.

H. Fibroadipose tissue, "small bowel tumor nodules , excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

l. Portion of proximal colon, excision:
Subserosal edema with mild acute and chronic inﬂammation.

J. Portion of colon, "donut", excision:
No diagnostic abnormalities.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

K. Soft tissue, "peri—appendiceal tumor”, excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

L. Soft tissue, "small mesentery nodule", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

M. Soft tissue, "small bowel @ 1300", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

N. Soft tissue, "right diaphragmatic pleura and partial right hepatic capsule", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

0. Lymph nodes (2), "posterior common duct node", biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy in two lymph nodes (0/2).

P. Gallbladder, "gallbladder', cholecystectomy:
High grade serous carcinoma involving the serosal surface.

0. Fibroadipose tissue, "portal peritoneum", excision:
High grade serous carcinoma.

Immunohistochemical stains show the tumor cells to be positive for p53 and WT—1 supporting the above diagnosis.

OVARY: Oophorectomy, Salplngo-Oophonectomy, Subtotal Oophorectomy or Removal of Tumor In Fragments,
Hysterectomy Wlth SalplngoOophonectomy

Specimen: Right ovary, Left ovary, Right fallopian tube, Uterus, Cervix. Omentum, Peritoneum, gallbladder, colon
Procedure: Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. hysterectomy, and tumor debulking
Lymph Node Sampling: Perfumed (0/3)

 

Date of Printing: MR #3 Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME:
MR #:

SURG PATH #:
ALT ID #1

 

Specimen Integrity
Right Ovary: Capsule ruptured
Left Ovary: Fragmented
Primary Tumor Site: Bilateral ovaries
Ovarian Surface Involvement: Present
Tumor Size
Right Ovary: Cannot be determined (Fragmented)
Left Ovary: 7.2 x 7.2 x 5.3 cm
HistologicType: Serous, carcinoma
Histologic Grade: High grade
Extent of Involvement of Other Tissues/Organs:
Right ovary: Involved
Left ovary: Involved
Right fallopian tube: Involved
Left fallopian tube: lndeterrninate
Omentum: Involved
Uterus: Involved (serosal surface)
Peritoneum: Involved
Other organs/tissues: Colonic and gallbladder serosal surfaces and right hepatic capsule
Treatment Effect: N/A
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present
Pathologic Staging (pTNM [FIGO]) pT3cNOMn/a

Primary Tumor (pT)
pT3c and/or N1 [lllC]: Peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis >2 cm in greatest dimension and/or regional lymph node metastasis

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Distant Metastasis (pM)
Not applicable

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reﬂects only current pathologic data and does not
incorporate full knowledge of the patients clinical status and/or prior pathology.

Pursuant to the Quality Assurance Program at ‘ this case has been concurrently reviewed by the following
pathologist: who agrees with the above diagnosis.

sum
By this signature, I attest that l have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.
"’Electronically Signed Out By“
MD. Attending Physician
D.O., Resident

Interpreted by:

A. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "anterior abdominal wall peritoneum" is a 9.8 x 7.5 x 1.0 cm fragment
of tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose peritoneum. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal multiple tan-white poorly demarcated areas
within the cut surface. These tan-white areas measures 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm to 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Representative sections of the
tan-white areas and peritoneum are submitted in cassettes A1 through A5.

B. Received fresh labeled with the patient‘s name and "omentum" is an 18.0 x 16.0 x 4.0 cm resection of omentum with multiple
white—tan hemorrhagic nodules throughout the omentum. Representative sections of one of the nodules are submitted for frozen
section as BtFS. Additional representative sections are submitted in cassettes 32 and B3.

C. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "portion of left tube and ovary" is an 89 gram fragmented
salpingo—oophorectomy specimen measuring 12.0 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm in aggregate. The fragments are composed of a pink-tan solid

 

MR #: PageS of6
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Date of Printing:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: ' ’ SURG PATH #1
MR #1 ALT ID #1

 

mass. Capsular disruption cannot be accurately assessed clue to fragmented nature of the specimen but appears to be disrupted.
The main fragment is serially sectioned to reveal a white-tan solid mass. There is a 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm portion of possible normal
ovary identiﬁed as well as a possible fragment of fallopian tube. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as
follows:

C2-C3 Representative sections of the mass.

C4 Representative section of possible fallopian tube.

C5 The portion of possible normal ovary submitted entirely.

D. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "small bowel mesentery nodule" is an intact and unoriented 5.0 x 4.0
x 1.0 cm portion of soft yellow lobulated adipose tissue which demonstrates an ill-deﬁned 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.2 cm tan-pink, rubbery and
focally friable nodule. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal cut surfaces of the lesion which are white-pink. smooth with
focal, friable and hemorrhagic areas. Representative tissue is submitted in cassettes D1 and DZ.

E. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "right cul-de-sactumor" is a 19.5 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm aggregate of yellow
adipose tissue that demonstrates a 4.0 x 3.5 x 0.8 cm mass. The mass is representative section to reveal a tan-white rubbery
appearance. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes labeled E1 and E2.

F. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "pelvic peritoneum" is a 7.0 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm intact irregular unoriented
portion of soft tan-yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue which demonstrates 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm tan-pink rubbery and focally friable lesion.

The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a white-pink smooth and solid lesion. Representative tissue is submitted in cassettes
F1 and F2. '

G. Received fresh labeled with the patient’s name and “uterus, cervix, right ovary and fallopian tube and rectosigmcid colon" is a
23.1 x 20.0 x 6.2 cm pelvic resection. The resection consists of a uterus that weighs 308 grams and measures 10.0 cm from
uterine fundus to cervical os, 6.2 cm from comu to comu and 5.8 cm from anterior to posterior. The sercsa is tan-pink with
multiple adherent tan—white firm nodules. The cervical as is slit like in shape and measures 0.8 cm. The cervical cs is probed
patent, and the uterus is bisected coronally to reveal a 5.4 x 2.2 cm endometrial cavity and a 1.5 x 1.2 cm endooervical cavity.

The posterior endometrial cavity contains a 2.8 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm polypoid lesion. This lesion does not appear to invade into the
myometrium. The uterus is serially sectioned to reveal an average endometrial thickness of 0.3 cm and an average myometrial
thickness of 2.5 cm. The myometrium contains multiple well—circumscribed tan-white whorled nodules consistent with
leiomyomata. These nodules range in size from 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm to 2.7 x 1.4 x 1.3 cm. A representative section of the polypoid
lesion is submitted for frozen section in cassette G1 FS.

Attached to the uterus is an 8.6 cm right ﬁmbriated fallopian tube with a diameter of 0.3-2.6 cm. The fallopian tube contains a
cystic area that measures 3.5 x 2.6 x 1.7 cm. This area is tan-red and soft. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal that the
enlarged area contains a clear serous ﬂuid. The remainder of the fallopian tube has a pinpoint lumen and is grossly
unremarkable. The ﬁmbriated end of the fallopian tube is enlarged and contains to be grossly involved by a tumor. Attached to
the fallopian tube is a 184 gram ovarian mass. This mass measures 7.2 x 7.2 x 5.3 cm. The external surface is tan-pink with
multiple projections through the capsule. The largest capsular projection measures 2.0 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm and is inked black. The
specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a ﬁrm tan-white cut surface with multiple cysts ranging in size from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm to 2.5
x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. The cysts are ﬁlled with a range of ﬂuids from clear yellow serous ﬂuid to hemorrhagic material. The cut surface
contains multiple foci of hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. No ovarian parenchyma can be grossly seen. The mass does not
appearto grossly invade into the uterus. The mass also abuts the portion of colon but does not appearto grossly invade. The
cyst walls measures 0.2 cm in thickness. The attached colon measures 20.4 cm in length by 2.6 cm in diameter. The colon
contains staple lines at the resection margin. The staple lines are removed. The specimen is opened along the serosal aspect to
reveal a grossly unremarkable tan-brown mucosa. The specimen is submitted as follows:

 

G2 12:00 Cervix.

G3 6:00 Cervix.

G4 - Anterior lower uterine segment.

GS Full thickness anterior well, one slice bisected.

G6 Posterior lower uterine segment.

GT Full thickness posterior wall.

GS Representative sections of the leiomyomata.

69-610 Representative sections of the ovarian mass to the uterine serosa.

Gi1 Entire unremarkable fallopian tube serially sectioned.

G12-613 Representative sections from the dilated fallopian tube showing relationship to the ovarian mass.
G14 Representative section from the ﬁmbriated end of the fallopian tube.

615 Representative section of the ovarian mass showing the capsular protrusion inked black.
616-617 Additional representative sections of ovarian mass.

618-619 Representative sections of the mass to the colonic mucosa.

Date of Printing: MR #' Page 4 Of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #1
MR #: ALT ID #:

620 Distal colonic resection margin shaved.

621 Proximal colonic resection margin shaved.

622 Representative section of colonic mucosa.

623 Representative section of the posterior polypoid endometrial lesion.

H. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name "small bowel tumor nodules" is an aggregate of pink-tan soft tissue measuring
3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm in aggregate. Representative sections are submitted for . Additional representative section is
submitted in cassette H1.

I. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name "portion of proximal colon" is a 3.5 cm portion of colon with a diameter of
2.5 cm. The external surface is pink-tan and smooth with epiplcic fat attached. Staple lines are removed and the bowel is
opened to reveal an unremarkable pink-tan mucosa. The surrounding ﬁbrcadipose is soft tissues to reveal a marked edematous
surface. No mass lesions are seen in the specimen. Sections are submitted as follows:

l1-2 Representative sections of resection margin.

I3-4 Representative section of the unremarkable colonic mucosa and underiying edematous tissue.

J. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "donut" are two donut-shaped pieces of bowel. one measuring 1.5 x
1.0 x 0.5 cm and measuring 1.0 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The larger donut is trisected and submitted entirely in cassettes J1 and J2. The
smaller donut is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette J3.

K. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "peri-appendiceal tumor" is a 5.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm piece of pink-tan soft
tissue and yellow ﬁbroadipose tissue. Attached to the ﬁbroadipose tissue is a 5.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm portion of red-tan hemorrhagic
soft tissue. No grossly identiﬁable appendix is identiﬁed. Representative sections of the hemorrhagic area submitted in cassettes
K1 -K3. The ﬁbroadipose tissue is serially sectioned to reveal no discrete mass lesions or gross abnormalities.

L. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "small mesentery nodule" is a 2.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm piece of pink-tan soft

tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal a pink-tan solid cut surface. Representative section of the specimen
submitted in cassette L1.

M. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "small bowel" are two fragments of ﬁrm tan-pink tissue measuring 1.2
x 1.0 x 0.6 cm and 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. The fragments are submitted entirely in cassettes M1 and M2.

N. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "right diaphragmatic pleura and partial right hepatic capsule" is a 16.4 x 8.5
x 1.4 cm fragment of tan-pink fascia. The specimen contains multiple ﬁrm nodules embedded within the smooth tan-pink surface.
The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal that the nodules are ﬁrm tan-white on their cut surface. Representative sections are
submitted in cassettes N1-N4.

0. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "posterior common duct node" is a 2.1 x 1.6 x 0.9 cm fragment of
tan-yellow ﬁbrcadipose tissue. The specimen is bisected and submitted entirely in cassette 01.

P. Received in fcrrnalin, labeled with the patient’s name and “gallbladder” is a 10.5 x 4.0 x 4.0 cm cholecystectomy specimen.
The across is green-brown and smooth to ragged. The gallbladder is opened to reveal a green velvety mucosa. The gallbladder
wall ranges in size from 0.1 cm up to 0.4 cm. The cystic duct remnant contains a metallic staple, but is otherwise patent. No
calculi are identiﬁed. Representative sections from the gallbladder body and fundus, and a shave of the cystic duct remnant are
submitted in cassette P1.

Q. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "portal peritoneum" is a 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm piece of yellow-tan
ﬁbrcadipose tissue. No discrete mass lesions are identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassettes Q1 and 02.

 

0.0.. Resident
BtFS, omentum, "omentum":
Poorly differentiated carcinoma.
G1FS, uterus, "uterus. cervix, right ovary and fallopian tube and rectosigmcid colon":
Benign endometrial polyp.
. Attending Physician
Date of Printing: MR #2 Page 5 Of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: ' SURG PATH #1
MR #1 ALT ID #1

 

If immunohistochemical stains and/or' In situ hybridization are cited in this report. the nnrfnrmnnma characteristics were determined by the
In compliance with CLIA’88
regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of “analyte speciﬁc reagents“ and are subject to speciﬁc labeling requirements by the FDA. Known
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the I
It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary.

 

 

Date ofPrintlng: MR #3 Page 6 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

