 

Specimen(s) Received

ﬂ, Irs x I, ll! lilrs! x !, !!! IL‘St x !, H&E, First 1-: 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1,

H&E, First x 1, H&E, Firstx 1,
H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1, Wilms' Tumor x 1, Cytokeratin 7 x 1, Cytokeratin
20 x 1, Carcinoembryonic antig

B: Left eivici m h n
&E, Firstx 1

E: Si moid

H&E, First x 1, H&E, First x 1
F: Omentum, resection for tumor

I

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:

A. Uterus, tubes, ovaries, cervix, rectum, left ureter, resection:

- Ovary, left:

1. Papillary Serous Cystadenocarcinoma, moderateiy differentiated,
grade

II/III, FIGO stage IIIC, 14.0 cm in greatest diameter.

2. Papillary Serous Cystadenocarcinoma metastatic to one of two
regional

lymph nodes (1/2)

— Ovary, right: Sections of benign ovary, no evidence of carcinoma.
- Fallopian tube, right: Section of benign fallopian tube, no evidence of
carcinoma.

— Fallopian tube, left: Not identified.

- Uterine corpus

— Myometrium:

1. Papillary Serous Cystadenocarcinoma metastatic to posterior uterine
corpus

by direct extension from the ovary and by iympho—vascular invasion.
2. Leiomyomata, intramurai.

- Endometrium: Benign atrophic endometrium, no evidence of
metastatic

carcinoma.

- Cervix: Sections of benign cervix, no evidence of carcinoma.
Page 1 of6

 

 

- Rectum: Metastatic Papillary Serous Cystadenocarclnoma Mucosal

and
transmural; largest metastasis measures 3.0 cm in greatest diameter,

distal

and proximal margins are negative.

- Ureter, left: Sections of benign ureter, no evidence of carcinoma.
B. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, excision: Papillary Serous
Cystadenocarcinoma

metastatic to one of six lymph nodes (1/6).

C. Soft tissue, excision: Leiomyoma.

D. Lymph nodes, right pelvic, excision: Papillary Serous
Cystadenocarcinoma

metastatic to one of three lymph nodes (1/3).

E. Sigmoid donut, excision: Colonic mucosa, no evidence of metastatic
carcinoma.

F. Omentum, resection: Fibrofatty tissue, no evidence of metastatic
carcinoma.

Note: Ovarian Tumor Synoptic Comment

1. Type of tumor: Papillary Serous Cystaclenocarcinoma

. Grade of tumor: II/III.

. Location of tumor: Unilateral, left ovary.

. Diameter of tumor: 14.0 cm.

. Appearance of surface of ovary: Smooth.

. Condition of capsule: Intact.

. Appearance of cut surface: Multilocular cyst, solid and cystic, mainly cystic.
. Color of solid areas: Tan.

. Necrosis: Moderate to extensive.

10. Lymphatic/vascular invasion: Lymphatic and blood vessel invasion.

11. Sites of metastases in pelvis (list all): Colon (transmural), uterine myometrium,
lymph nodes.

12. Pelvic lymph nodes: three of eleven contain metastatic tumor.

13. Sites of metastases in abdomen (list all): None.

14. Para—aortic lymph nodes: None sampled.

15. Peritoneal cytology: Negative. Cytology accession number: -
16. Other significant findings: Leiomyomata.

17. FIGO stage: IIIC.

18. TNM stage: pT3cN1Mx.

Immunohistochemical stains were performed on block A11, the tumor cells are
negative for progesterone

but do express estrogen receptors, they are also CK7positive and CKZO negative,
WT—l strongly positive and

m—CEA weakly positive. This immunohistochemical profile is consistent with an
ovarian papillary serous

ﬂeviewed the case and concurs with the interpretation.

kDCXJNO‘U'l-bWN

 

 

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis

F81 (A) Uterus, ovaries, rectum, cervix, excision: Infiltrating ovarian carcinoma
associated with serous

cyst, infiltrating into colon; defer classification of carcinoma to permanent section

 

and

immunohistochemistry.

Clinical Histor

The patient is omith a history of a pelvic mass, undergoing
resection of rec um an o a

abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

Gross Description

The specimen is received in six parts, each labeled with the patient's name and
medical record number.

Parts A and C are received fresh, and Parts 8, D—F are received in formalin.

Part A is received fresh from the O.R., for frozen section, additionally labeled “uterue,

cervix, ovaries,
Page 2 of 6

rectum, and left ureter — FS," and consists of a composite resection specimen
including: uterus (5.5 cm

from superior to inferior, 5.0 cm cornu to cornu, and 3.5 cm anterior to posterior),
cervix (1.5cm x 1.0cm),

ovaries and fallopian tube, a segment of descending colon and rectum (23.0cm in
length x 3.0cm diameter)

and an unattached segment of ureter (5.0cm in length x 0.3cm in diameter).
Centered in the left adnexa is a 14.0 x 7.0 x 6.5 cm solid and cystic mass. The solid
portion (8.5 x 6.6 x 4.0

cm) is soft, pink—tan with areas of apparent necrosis, and comprises approximately
40% of the mass. The

cystic portion of the mass is composed of multiple smooth walled cystic spaces
without excresences. No

residual ovary is identified in the mass. The solid portion infiltrates through the distal
portion of the

rectum with invasion through the rectal wail, ulceration of the mucosa, and
penetration into the lumen.

The proximal and distal margins of the colon/rectum are free of tumor. Tumor
approaches to wthin 3.5cm

from the distal margin (rectum) and to within 10 cm of the proximal margin
(descending colon). The tumor

contains a cauterized surface near it's invasion into the rectum. The surgeon
indicates the separate

segment of left ureter was present adjacent to this cauterized area. Additionally,
tumor infiltrates into the

posterior wall of the uterus with invasion into but not through the myometrial wall.
The uterine cavity

overlying the area of tumor invasion appears grossly unremarkable. The tumor does
not appear to involve

any other structures grossly. Two lymph nodes are found between the ovarian mass
and the rectum.

Representative sections of the solid component of the mass and sections of tumor

 

 

infiltrating rectum are

submitted for frozen section diagnosis #1 with the frozen remnants in cassettes A1—
A3. Additionally,

portions of the mass as well as uninvolved endomyometrium are submitted for
research.

The uterus additionally shows multiple nodules, sub—mucosal and sub—serosal, with
firm, white-tan cut

surfaces showing a whorled appearance. These nodules range in size from 0.7 to
2.2cm in maximal

diameter and do not appear to be associated with the adnexal mass. No areas of
hemorrhage, necrosis, or

cystic degeneration are identified in these nodules. The ectocervix (1.0 x 1.0 cm) has
a smooth white-tan

surface without f0ca| lesions. The cervical 05 is fish-mouthed and measures 0.7 cm in
greatest dimension.

The endocervix has glistening tan-brown mucosa and appears grossly unremarkable.
The endometrium is

thin, tan—brown, and grossly appears atrophic. The right ovary is white—tan,
measures 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm

and shows no gross abnormalities. The right fallopian tube (4.5 cm length x 0.5 cm
diameter) appears

grossly unremarkable. The anatomic area of the left fallopian tube appears to consist
entirely of infiltrating

tumor and no residual fallopian tube is identified grossly. The separate portion of left
ureter is unoriented,

appears intact, and shows no evidence of involvement by tumor.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cassettes A1-A3: Frozen section remnants.

Cassette A4: Cervix, anterior and posterior.

Cassette A5: Leiomyomata.

Cassette A6; Endomyometrium.

Cassette A7: Right ovary and right fallopian tube.

Cassette A8: Two regional lymphnodes.

Cassettes A9-A10: Cystic portion of mass.

Cassettes All—A12: Tumor near inked cyst wall.

Cassettes A13—A14: Distal colon margin, en face.

Cassettes A15-A16: Proximal colon margin, en face.

Cassettes A17-A18: Tumor infiltrating uterus.

Cassettes A19—A20: Bowel with tumor and cauterized area (inked) and cyst wall;
inked margin in cassette

A20.

Cassettes A21—A22: Cauterized inked margin and bowel.

Cassettes A23-A27: Representative sections of tumor under ovarian cyst.

Cassette A28: Large bowel tumor and margin (cauterized).

Cassettes A29-A30: Representative sections of large bowel tumor.

Cassette A31: Small colonic tumor.

Cassettes A32~A33: Extra colonic nodule.

Cassettes A34—A3S: Representative sections of uninvolved bowel.

Cassette A36: Either end of left ureter.

Cassettes A37-39: Colon with left ovary.

Cassettes 40—42: Left ovary.

Part B is additionally labeled "2 - left pelvic lymph node," and consists of two

 

  

   

 

I I
tan—brown, irregularly shaped tissue fragments, the larger measuring 3.0 x 1.5 x 1.0
cm and the smaller

measuring 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm. The specimen appears to consist of candidate nodes

with a small portion of
Page 3 of 6

attached adipose tissue. The largest node measures 2.0 cm in greatest dimension.
The largest node is

bisected and submitted in cassette 81. The remaining candidate nodes are submitted
in cassette 82.

Part C is additionally labeled "1 - myoma," and consists of one unoriented, firm,
white—tan, irregularly

shaped tissue fragment measuring 4.5 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm and weighing 26.9 gm. The
specimen is inked blue.

Cross sectioning reveals white-tan tissue in a whorled pattern, consistent with
leiomyoma. No areas of

hemorrhage, necrosis or cystic degeneration are identified. Three representative
sections are submitted in

cassette C1.

Part D is additionally labeled "4 - right pelvic lymph node,“ and consists of three
unoriented, rubbery,

tan-brown, irregularly shaped tissue fragments, the largest measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x
1.3 cm. The specimen

measures 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm in aggregate. The largest fragment is bisected and
submitted in cassette D1.

The two smaller fragments are submitted in cassette D2.

Part E is additionally labeled "6 - sigmoid donut," and consists of two unoriented
donut fragments of colon,

the larger measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm and the smaller measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0
cm. Tissue is teased

away from the staples, and sections of the larger fragment are submitted in cassette
E1. Sections of the

smaller fragment are submitted in cassette E1.

Part F is additionally labeled "5 - omentum," and consists of one unoriented soft,
yellow-tan, irregularly

shaped fragment of fatty and membranous tissue, measuring 9.0 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm.
The specimen is thinly

sliced, revealing no nodules or other focal lesions. The specimen consists of
unremarkable-appearing fatty

tissue. Three representative sections are submitted in cassette F1.

The immune eroxidase stain 5 re orted above were developed and their performance characteristics
hey have not been cleared or approved by the U. S. Food and
rug minis ra lOl‘I. e

 

FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical
purposes. They should not
be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
mendments of
as ualified to erform hi h-com lexi

 

 

  
  

A

 

Result of Her—2/neu test: This carcinoma is negative for Her-2/neu
oncoprotein overexpression.

An immunohistochemical assay was performed on biock A11 using the C811
monoclonal antibody to

Her-Z/neu oncoprotein. The staining intensity of this carcinoma was 0 on a scale of
0—3 with focal

cytoplasmic staining only.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 0 or 1 are considered negative for
overexpression of Her—Z/neu

oncoprotein.

Those with a staining intensity score of 2 are considered borderline. We and others
have observed that

many carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 2 do not show gene amplification.
All carcinomas with

staining intensity scores of 2 are therefore submitted for FISH testing. The results of
the FISH test are

issued directly from the molecular cytogenetics laboratory.

Carcinomas with staining intensity scores of 3 are considered positive for
overexpression of Her—2/neu

oncoprotein. Tumors in this category show an excellent correlation between the

results of
Page 4 of 6

immunohlstochemical and FISH testing, and almost always show gene amplification.
' ' hove were developed and their performance characteristics

They have not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and
Drug Administration. The
FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical
purposes. They should not
be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of

as qualiﬁed to perform high~complexity clinical testing.

Other S ecimens

    

Specimen(s) Received: Vaginal, Thin Prep

 

 

Vaginal, Thin Prep
NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.
SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

   

ewe : eri onea

Final Diagnosis
Peritoneal Washing

 

!pec1men(s) Received: Vaginal/Cervical, Thin Prep

 

Final Diagnosis

  

 

as Ing

Vaginal/Cervical, Thin Prep

NEGATIVE FOR INTRAEPITHELIAL LESION OR MALIGNANCY.

SPECIMEN ADEQUACY:

Satisfactory for evaluation.

 

Tra nsfor

 

   

ponents are present.

 

