 

“ Addended *
PECINIEN(S) RECEIVED

3
l. Oral—Cavity: RT. tongue resection, short anterior, long superior
2. Oral Cavity: Rt. posterior margin -

3. Oral Cavity: Floor of mouth mucosa margin I

l. Oral Cavity: medial margin superior

. Oral Cavity: Anterior margin

. Oral Cavity: Floor of mouth deep margin

VI

3
F. Oral Cavity: deep tongue muscle
3. Neck: level 'I A neck

?. Neck: bilateral neck contents

to. Neck: Rt. sublinguial gland

l 1._ Surgical Waste

,2. Neck: left neck level 4 node

)IAGNOSIS
.. Right tongue resection:
Squamous cell carcinoma, moderately differentiated.
L. The maximum dimension of the tumour is 2.7 cm.
L The maximum thickness of the tumour is 1.2 cm.
:. No perineural or lymphovascular invasion is identiﬁed.
i. All margins are free of tumour (> 0.5 cm).
5. Right posterior margin:
Negative for malignancy.
i. Floor of mouth mucosa margin:
Negative for malignancy.
-. Medial margin superior:
Negative for malignancy.
1. Anterior margin:
Negative for malignancy.

 

Page 2 of 5

 

6. Floor of mouth deep margin:

- Negative for malignancy.

7. Deep tongue muscle:

— Negative for malignancy.

8. Neck; level IA:

— Fat and ﬁbrous tissue, negative for malignancy.
79. Bilateral neck contents:

- Bilateral submandibular glands with mild chronic inﬂammation, negative for

malignancy.

— Thirty—nine lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/39).

10. Right sublingual gland:

- Sublingual gland with chronic inﬂammation, negative for malignancy.

11. Surgical waste:

- Soft tissue with no diagnostic abnormalities (examined grossly).

12. Left neck; level IV:

- One lymph node, negative for malignancy (0/1).

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Resection:Right tongue resection.

Tumor Site: Tongue

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.7 cm

Tumor thickness: 1.2 cm

Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Absent
Peiineural Invasion: Absent

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT2: Tumor of lip or oral cavity more
than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest dimension

pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

for aerodigestive sites

Number of regional lymph nodes

examined: 40 '

Number of regional lymph nodes

involved: 0

pMX: Distant metastasis canwt be assessed

GROSS DESCRIPTION

 

 

Page 3 of 5

1. The specimen is labeled the patierit's name and as "Oral Cavity: Right tongue
resection, short anterior, long superior". It consists of a portion of right

tongue measuring 3.5 cm SI x 1.8 cm ML x 4.8 cm AP cm. There are two sutures
orientation. There is an ill—defmed ulcerated tumor involving the lateral

surface of the tongue. The tumor measures 2.2 SI x 1.2 ML x 2.7 AP cm. The
tumor is ill—deﬁned, solid in consistency, ulcerated on the surface with a

gray—tan color. It is located at 0.8 cm from the superior margin, 0.7 cm from

the medial margin, 0.8 cm from the deep margin, 0.8 cm from the anterior

 

margin, and 1.2 from the posterior margin. The deep margin is submitted for
intraoperative consultation. Representative sections are submitted.
lA—‘frozen section block resubmitted. (Deep margin (perpendicular)

lB— anterior margin

1C— inferior margin

lD- posterior margin

[Easuperior margin

lF—lH - tumor with deep margin.

lI—nomial tongue.

Two pieces of tumor and one piece of normal were taken for tissue bank.

2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Right
)osterior margin- consists of a fragment of tissue that measures 2.2 x 0.5
t 0.2 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

lA- ﬁczen section block resubmitted.

i. The specimen labele 'th the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Floor of
nouth mucosa margin H consists of a fragment of tissue that measures 0.9 x
).7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

lA— frozen section block resubmitted.

l. The specimen labeled with the patient‘s name and as "Oral Cavity: Medial
margin superiOr" consists of a fragment of tissue that measures 2.2 x 0.4 x 0.3
:m. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

lA- frozen section block resubmitted.

i. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Anterior
margin" consists of a fragment of tissue that measures 1.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. The
pecimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

iA— frozen section block resubmitted.

i. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Oral Cavity: Floor of
mouth deep margin“ consists of a fragment of tissue that measures 0.8 x 0.4 x
L3 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative consultation.

iA— frozen section block resubmitted. .. VI

’. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as ”Oral Cavity: Deep
ongue muscle" consists of two fragments of tissue that measures .l.-7'x 0.5 x '
L4 cm and 0.8 X 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is frozen for intraoperative

 

Page 4 of 5

consultation.
7A- frozen section block resubmitted.

 

8. The specimen container is labeled with the patient‘s name and as ”Neck:

Level IA neck". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.5 x 0.5

cm.

8A- specimen in toto.

9. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck: Bilateral neck

contents" consists of an oriented standard right and left neck dissection with

overall dimensions of 18.0 x 9.5 x 2.2 cm. There is a diagram indicating

levels I—IV on the right and levels I-IV on the left. The right submandibular

gland measures 4.5 X 2.8 x 1.4 cm while the left submandibular glandmeasures

4.0 X 2.8 x 1.2 cm and are both unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes ranging

from 0.5 to 1.8 cm are identified in multiple levels. Representative sections ‘ _
are submitted. II ~
9A- right submandibular gland 7.. _.
9B~ multiple lymph nodes level I right '
9C— 9D— one lymph node serially sectioned level II right

9E-one lymph node bisected level II right

9F—9G—multiple lymph nodes each level II right

9H~one lymph node bisected level III right

91—multiple lymph nodeslevel IV right

91 -one lymph node bisected level IV right

9K-left submandibular gland

9L—soft tissue level I left

9M— 9N- one possible lymph node each bisected level II left

90-one lymph node bisected level III left

9P-multiple lymph nodes level III left

9Q—one lymph node bisected level 111 left

9R—multiple lymph nodes level 111 left

9S-one lymph node bisected level IV left

9T—multiple lymph nodes level IV left.

10. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck:

Right sublingual glan ”. It consists of a sublingual gland measuring 2.7 X 2.5

x 1.4 cm and is unremarkable.

lOA— representative sections submitted.

11. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "Surgical

Waste". It consists of a piece of unoriented dark brown soft tissue measuring

2.0 X. 1.5 x 1.3 cm. No gross abnormalities are noted. No sections, are .

submitted.

12. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Neck:

Left neck level IV node". It consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 0.8 x

 

0.5 x 0.4 cm.

QUICK SECTION

1A. Deep margin: negative for carcinoma

2A. Right posterior margin: negative for carcinoma

3A. Floor of mouth mucosal margin: negative for carcinoma
4A. Medial margin superior: negative for carcinoma

5 A. Anterior margin: negative for carcinoma

6A. Floor of mouth deep margin: negative for carcinoma

7A. Deep ton e muscle: negative for carcinoma

 

Addendum Comment _
A pl 6 has been perfbrmed and is negative in the tumour cells.

 

Page 5 of 5

 

 

