    

 
 

1. Net: Right neck dissection - level 1A.

2. Surgical Waste - .

3. Soft Tissue: Mentat nerve right neck - I i‘
4. SotLTissue: Buccal mucosa; primary' t. . long stitch on lip, short stitch on superior
5. Soft Tissue: Buccal fat

6. Neck: Right neck modiﬁed dissection contents
7. Soft Tissue: inferior alveolar nerve right neck
8

. Soft Tissue: Floor of mouth mucosa (margin)

4

Diagnosis
1. Right neck; level iA:
— One lymph node, negative for tumor (0H).

2. Surgicai waste:
- Adipose tissue with no pathologic changes (gross examination only).

3. Mentat nerve; right neck:
- Positive for squamous cell carcinoma.

4. Buccal mucosa; excision:

- Squamous cell carcinoma. moderateiy differentiated.

Maximum tumor dimension 6.0 cm.

Perineurai invasion present.

Lymphovascular invasion absent.

Tumor is close (0.2 cm) to infero-anterior soft tissue margin.

Tumor is present at the supero-anterior tip and buccai mucosal margins. All other margins negative for tumor
(>05 cm).

SEQ-PS7?)

5. Buccai fat:
— Fibroadipose tissue with chronic inflammation; negative for tumor.

6. Right neck; modified dissection:

- Metastatic squamous ceii carcinoma involving six of forty-six lymph nodes (6146).
a. Largest involved lymph node measures 3.5 cm.
b. involved lymph nodes are in levels lA, IB, ll-tV.
0. Extensive extracapsular extension present.

— Submandibutar gland with no pathologic changes (see comment).

 

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

7. inferior alveolar nerve; right neck:
- Peripheral nerve with no pathologic changes.

8. Floor of mouth mucosa; margin:
- Squamous mucosa, negative for tumor.

Synoptic Data

Specimen Type: Resection:Buccal

Tumor Site: Oral Cavity

Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma, conventional

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 6.0 cm

Histologic Gracie: G2: Moderately differentiated

Venous/Lymphatic (LargelSmall Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Absent

Perineural Invasion: Present

Margins: Margin(s) involved by tumor
Location(s): supero- -anterior buccal and lip mucosal margins

Pathologic Staging (pTNM): - pT3: Tumor or lip or oral cavity more than 4 cm in greatest dimension

- pN2b: Metastasis in multiple ipsilateral lymph nodes, none more than 6 cm in greatest

dimension for all aerodigestive sites except nasopharynx . .

. Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 46
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 6
Extra-capsular extension of nodal tumor: Present

pMX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed

Comment i

There Is a large cystic mass in level lB that' is a metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in a peri-submandibular gland lymph
node. There iS no invasion of the salivary gland itself

 

Gross Description
1 The specimen is labeled with the patients name and "right neck dissection level 1A". it consists of portion of partly

hemorrhagic lymph node measuring 1 x 0 7 x 0.4 cm
1A bisected and submitted in toto

2. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as “surgical waste“ consists of a piece of grossly
unremarkable fatty tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm received in 10% buffered formalin.
No tissues submitted for histologic examination.

3. The specimen is labeled with the patients name and as ”mental nerve right neck qs". . it consists of a fragment of tissue
measuring 0. 7 x 0 5 x 0 1 cm The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section. .t
3A frozen section control

4. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as ”buccal mucosa, primary tumor, long stitch on lip, short
stitch on superior” consists of a piece of gray-brown skin, subcutaneous fibrofatty tissue, buccal mucosa with a large
tumor and anterior lip mucosa received in 10% buffered formalin. it measures 5.0 cm SI x 3.0 cm ML x 6.5 cm AP. The
skin is unremarkable, measures 2.5 cm Si x 5.2 cm AP with a 2.5 cm groove in the AP dimension. The tumor is solid,
circumscribed, exophytic and tan with a ragged surface. it measures 5.0 cm 8! x 2.0 cm ML x 6.0 cm AP. The margins
are painted with silver nitrate. The skin margin is overcoatect with green ink. The tumor distance to the margins is as
follows: Anterior lip mucosa - right at margin, anterior skin margin - 0.5 cm, anterior buccal mucosal margin - right at

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

 

margin, superior buccal mucosa margin - 0.5 cm, superior skin margin -‘l .2 cm, posterior buccal mucosal margin — 0.5 cm,
posterior skin margin -1.0 cm, inferior buccal mucosal margin - 0.5 cm, inferior skin margin - 0.7 cm, infero-ante'rlor buccal
mucosal margin - 0.8 cm. Multiple pieces of tumor taken for tissue banking. Photographs are taken of the specnmen and
downloaded into . Sections are submitted as follows:

4A supero anterior 8 ln, lip mucosa and buccal mucosa margins

4B superior skin and buccal mucosa margins

40 posterior skin and buccal mucosa margins

40 inferior skin and buccal mucosa margin

4E infero-anterior buccal mucosa margin

4F, 46 tumor, no margins

5. The specimen container labeled with the patient‘s name and as “buccal fat" consists of two pieces of tissue measuring
0.8 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm and 1 x 0.8 x 0.6 received in 10% buffered formalin. The smaller is a piece of tan-gray soft tissue and
the larger a piece of grossly unremarkable fat.

5A submitted in toto

6. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and “right neck modified dissection contents". It consists of two pieces
of an oriented standard neck dissection with overall dimensions of 8.3 x 3 x 1.? cm and 14 x 7.5 x 4.5 cm. The smaller
piece contains level V and the larger piece levels IA, IB, II, ill and IV. There is a tumor mass within the levels II and Ill
measuring 4.5 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. It is tan-gray solid to cystic and abuts the interiorjugular vein. The internal jugular vein
measures 5 cm in length by 2 cm in diameter and is otherwise unremarkable. The sternocleldomastoid measures 7.5 x 5
x 3 cm. The mass in levels It and ill is within the muscle. The submandibular gland measures 3.3 x 3 x~1.8 cm and has a
circumscribed soft, necrotic yellowish-tan to pink mass measuring 2.5 x 2.5 x ‘i .8 cm. Multiple lymph nodes ranging from
0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm to 3.5 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm are identified in multiple levels. Representative sections are submitted.

6A level IA multiple lymph nodes _

66-60 level lA one lymph node sectioned

6E level IB multiple lymph nodes

6F level IB one lymph node bisected

66-6l submandibular gland with mass

6J. 6K level II solid and cystic mass

6L level il multiple lymph nodes

6M level II one lymph node bisected

SN, 60 level Ill solid and cystic mass with adjacent interiorjugular vein

6P level III multiple lymph nodes

60 level III one lymph node bisected

6R level lll one lymph node trisected

6S-6U level it! multiple lymph nodes each block

6V-6X level V multiple lymph nodes each block

7. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as ”inferior alvaoiar nerve right neck-gs". It consists of a fragment
of tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto for frozen section.
7A frozen section control

8. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as ”floor of mouth mucosa margin". it consists of a fragment of
tan-white tissue measuring 1.2 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm.

 

S

3. Mental nerve right neck — 3A: Squamous carcinoma present

 
  

ight neck — 7A: Negative for malignancy

 

 

   

 

