 

WID: EEMZD‘9- #165- M75- A399- lB160A1R2AeSFFac
TCGA-XU-ABBZ- --01A PR

“WWWWMWWFMHWHMMMMMMWHFH

NMMMMHNMWMWMWMH

 

Patient Name:

MRN: - Service: . Collected:
DOB: ' Visit #: Resulted:
Gender:m Location:

Facility:

Ordering MD:

 

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Wrﬁwén3

QéZﬁ§

W€%mﬂBév%
SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED ”jsf
1. Thymus: thymus, thymoma stitch right pleura {53.Lt2;' i;Z/W

DIAGNOSIS

1. Thymus. resection (thymus with portion of right pleura):

a) Thymoma, WHO 32 type (see Comment), with:
1) Greatest dimension = 5.5 cm
ii) Multifocal microscopic transcapsular invasion present
iii) Pleural and lymphovascular invasion not identified
iv) Resection margins negative for tumor

b) Thymic tissue with involutional changes

0) One parathyroid gland without significant abnormality

SYNOPTIC DATA

Specimen Type: Not specified

Tumor Site: Thymus

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5.5 cm
Histologic Type: Type B thymoma, 32 (cortical)
Pathologic Staging: Stage IIa: Microscopic transcapsular
invasion

Regional Lymph Nodes: pNX: Cannot be assessed
Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by tumor
Pleural Invasion: Absent

COMMENT

Sections show a tumor composed of a roughly equal admixture of thymic
corticalstype epithelial cells and small lymphocytes. The tumor is

Status: complete Page: 1 of

on) 4/2/14

Department of Pathology

 

Patient Name

MRN: Service: Collected:
DOB: ' Visit #: Resulted:
Genuer:m Location:

Facility:
Ordering MD:

 

partially encapsulated and microscopically demonstrates several foci of
transcapsular invasion into the adjacent fat. The tumor is adherent to a
portion of pleura, but pleural invasion is not identified. The tumor
appears to have been completely excised. By immunohistochemistry. the
epithelial cells stain positive for cytokeratin (AEl/AE3) and P63 and
negative for CD5. The small lymphocytes stain positive for CD5, CD1a,
and TdT. The overall findings are of a WHO type B2 thymoma, modified
Masaoka stage IIa, completely excised.

ELECTRONICALLY VERIFIED BY: I

CLINICAL HISTORY
myasthenia gravis

GROSS DESCRIPTION

The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as “thymus, thymoma
stitch right pleura". It consists of a thymus with stitch designating
right pleura. It weighs 36 g and measures 10 x 9 x 1.6 cm. It is painted
with silver nitrate. 0n sectioning there is a yellow nodular solid lesion
measuring 5.5 x 2.6 x 1.6 cm. A possible portion of pleural tissue marked
by a suture is noted, measuring 3x2cm and adherent to the tumor.
Representative sections are submitted.

1A-1E tumor with adherent pleura

lF—lJ thymic tissue right side

lK—lo thymic tiesue left side

Wham

 

Status: complete Page: 2 of 2

