UUID:557ABBOF-D774-4ADC-A221-AD9398A59852
TCGA-VF-ABAD-alA-PR Redacted ' ‘

Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIII
IlllllllllllﬂllmllllllllﬂlllllllllllllllllllﬂHIHIIIHIIII
IlllllllIllllllllllllll”IHIIHHIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllll

 

Panel: Surgical Pathology Report

 

 

Data: _ a...” rm“... w ......... _ H _ ,_..v m‘
I Abnormal Flags key: C Critical h -|§gh L Law R REVIEW * Abnormal 1
I Interpretation Codes: (5) Susceptible (R) Reslstam, (MS) Mademely Susceptlble (I) Intermedlate- :
I Status codes: P-Prelmhary F-‘r‘inai eC—Cu nectar! Ha progress] Incomplete x-Cancelled
I Dates and titles d'splayed below an: anallectlan dates; to see the nbsewatlon dabe and time for a result. hold your couvse over the cnﬁecmn.
time. Tlmes are on a 24—hour clock. ‘ . ‘ ‘

I An asterisk {*1 In the Note column cs: next to a panel namg. mdlcates a {late rsgfaggnt, T9 vlew tiresgzggfﬂfngﬂsg gurgqr gm the y].

Panel .. . .__~Ascessis,>n,.# . l £9!!.e_§t§¢l-_ . l . ,V§lue__ Units. Range. Note

5"” ”WWW ‘ F u—nn-I—u -

Collectlun d/t: ..

; ' a —'
Obs d/t: ic GD “5 ~- 5
Ordered by:

a
,. ‘ _ ’“ ‘ ‘ "":-/—
()LLHLLMMZL, “what/L411 N03 9'0 “J 6
Surgical Pathology Report .. ’ I 2 . V ¢ _/
ﬂ .LUWLUL. 92UthQQ mW/bé'é— 909:) 5
.‘w. ' A ; .
547a ; Jen/[w Nos @224 4
». yb 5/50//‘/
Final Diagnosis
1.Left teal-.13. left: radical archieetmy:
A. Malignant mixed germ cell tumor composed of preckaminant ambryoml
caxcinomu {—95%} and smaller cumponent at yolk sac tumor (~58), 1.3 m1;
lymghovaaculn: invaaicu preseﬁt; tumor invasive into zeta testis; tumor
does not invelve tunica albuginea, spermatic cord or epididyrlis, sac

synoptic summary .

8. Spermatic cord margin negative.

The case material waa renewed and {axe repute vexified by:

(Electronic signa turns)

Verification Data:

Note

Imunohistochmical stains were performed Star ERMA, AFP, and CD30 an
black 13 with adequate controls (see (Slack-amen . The embryonal carcinoma
is positive for OCH, SALM‘ {$930. The you; sac tumor is pnaiuve to;

55.524, and REF. The findings support the above diagnosis.

Disclaimer:

The above invvitra IHC tests may have used reagents labeled fox IVD (In
‘Jitro Diagnostic Use}, LU!) (Investigaticnal Use Only) and/or Rut) meaearch
Use Only} and have um: been cleared or approved by the 13.3 Pond and Dxrug
Administration. However, the FDA has determined. that sash clearance or

approval is not nacsssary for MR class I masts intended to prcvide

of3

2 OFQ

pathologists with adjunctive information to assist their morphologic
evaluation. Th3 tests using IUD cr‘lUO reagents Nara developed and their

perﬁcrmance characteristics ware valtdatad £9: diagncstic use by the

Thin laboratory is regulsted under the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1983 (CLIAl as qualified to
perfoxm high camplexiry clinical tests. These class I 553 tests are not
intended to provide diagncatic, progncgtic. predictiva or :ﬁerapeutic
information that is not direcziy confirmed by routine histcpatholagic

internal or external contra: specimana.

Syneptic Report

1: reatzs, Radical Orchiectomy Summary
SERUM T6303 HABKERﬁ:

Unknown

SPECIMER LATERALITX;

Lezt

I‘JMQB FCCAL ITY:

Unifocal

TUMQR SIZE:

Greateat dimensian of maln tumnr mass: 1.8 cm

Additional dimensicns: 2.7 x 1.4 cm

MA£ROSCDPIC EXTENT OF TUMOR:

Confined to the testis

HISTCLOGIC TYPE:

Mixed qarm c931 tumor: ambryonal caxcinama 951; yolk sac tummr ~5a
SPERNATTC CURB MARGIN:

Uninvolved by tumor

OTHER MAEEIRiS}:

Rot applicable

ﬁICRDSCDFIC TUNER EXTENSION:

Reta tasti:

LYN?H~VASCULAR INVASION:

Presan:

PRIMARY TUMOR (pf):

pTl: Tumor LimLted to the testis and apldidymis with vascular/lymphatic
invasion, or tumc: extending through the tunica albuginea with involvament
of the tunica vaginal£s

REGIGKAL LYﬂPQ NODES (pN):

pNX: Cannot be assessed

DISThNT METASTASZS {pm}:

Nat applicable

SE39“ TUMOR MERRERiS):

SX: Serum marker studies not available or performed

A5D1TIONAL EATEOLDﬁIC FINDINGS:

None identified

Pathologistts)

Grass Description
The case in :eocivad in one fresh container, labels“; with the patient‘s

name and media 1 recozd number‘

Specimen 1 is deeiqnated ”let: testis“ and consists of a testis measuring
5-.7 x 5.7! x 3.1, cm and attached spermatic cord measuring 9.2 cm in lanqth x
2.5 cm in greatest diameter, The testis and spemativc card are inked
black. The specimen is opened to raven: a Kim, vaguely maimncdulaz and
haterageneous tambrown nodule with fecal hemorrhage located in the testis
measunng 1.8 x 1.7 x 1.4 cm. The testis was opened, to expel 5 cc of
serous fluid. No other lesions are gnosaly identified. Mymasentative
sections are submitters! as Eoilqus: spematic cord margin shaved in 1H,
section from mxdpcrtion of spematzc cord in 13, aaction thzouqh base at
spematic cord in LG; may: in relation to him: structure: in 13. remainder
of the mass submitted in tutu in 1D and 15", representative aection of

t

;
testis in 15.

SIRWXR‘LGE’ SECTIONS: sever» multiple, representative
mutated by:

clinical Infotmtion
yearwid male with netarogenaous solid peripheral enhanaing mass in left
testicle additional 5 m laaicn in lower Left tasbis
Pre—cperative magnesia: Nat specified
Paat~0perstive ﬂiagnoais: Not specified
Operation:

Specific questions ta be answerad: None

Spacing"):
3. Textis, Tumor. Lat:
*“ End of report “a
l
' Prinz:
of 3

is

leviemu Initials ﬁe vii-awed:

 

 

