Anatomical Pathology

UUID: 58145248- B111-463A-A1cc- 320A993F6326d , ,
TCGA- KP- A3w1- 01A— PR Casezg

éHIIHHIIHIIIHIIIHIIII"I"IIIPIIIHIIIIHHIIIIIIIIHHHII"m“"Hm“ V , V MRNE‘i
iIlllllllIllll|lll|l|||l|||l||lllIIllIllilIllllllllllllllllllllll ,_ PH”?

Ordering Physician: '
Final Diagnosis.

. Left pelvic lymph nodes: Three benign lymph nodes, negative
for metastasis

B. Right pelvic lymph nodes: Two benign lymph nodes, negative
for metastasis.

C. Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen:
1. High—grade endometrial serous carcinoma.
2. Figo grade 3/3.
3. Only superficial invasion of inner half of myometrium with
least thickness of uninvolved myometrium measuring 1.3 cm.
4. No lymphovascular invasion.
5. Carcinoma extends to lower edge of endometrial cavity but
does not involve the endocervix.
No extrauterine extension.
. Non-carcinomatous endometrium showing atrophy.
. Histologically unremarkable ovaries and fallopian tubes.
. Pelvic washings: Benign mesothelial cells
and chronic inflammatory cells.

10. pTlaNO. £003
carci‘ﬂdma,§C/WS~’JQ$

sew i 3
3 HO? (ndonwi‘fiurm

koooqow

"'inical History as Provided by Submitting Physician: C34 . (
""""" old female with serous high-grade adeno CA of endometrium
W251 z
Cytology W 2-0

Gross Description:
Received are three containers, each labelled with the patient's name, XXXXXXXXXXX, and
demographics.

Container A is labelled, LEFT PELVIC NODE, and consists of an adipose tissue fragment
measuring 4.6 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm. Five lymph nodes are identified on dissection. These
lymph nodes are submitted in toto as follows:

Al—AZ — one lymph node (in four segments)
A3 — two lymph nodes
A4 - two lymph nodes

Container B is labelled, RIGHT PELVIC NODE, and consists of an adipose tissue fragment
measuring 3.7 x 2.2 x 1.2 cm. Three lymph nodes are identified on dissection. These
lymph nodes are submitted in toto as follows:

Bl—BZ — one lymph node (in four segments)
B3 — two lymph nodes

Container C is labelled, UTERUS, OVARIES AND CERVIX, and consists of a hysterectomy
and bilateral salpingo oophorectomy specimen.

 

The specimen weighs 122.4 g. The uterus measures 8.5 x 6 x 3.8 cm. The serosal
surface is tan and dull. The cervix is grossly unremarkable.

The right ovary measures 2 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm and the attached right fimbriated fallopian
tube measures 6 cm in length x 0.7 cm in diameter. The left ovary measures 2.3 x 1.3
x 0.7 cm and the attached left fimbriated fallopian tube measures 5 cm in length x 1
cm in diameter. Both ovaries and fallopian tubes are grossly unremarkable.

On opening the uterine corpus, the endometrium is involved by tumor, 4.5 cm in
greatest dimension, involving both the anterior and posterior aspects but mainly the
anterior aspect of the endometrium. The tumor does appear to invade the myometrium to
the depth of 0.5 cm (1.3 cm from the surface of the uterus). The myometrium measures
up to 0.6 cm in thickness, with no evidence of myomatous nodules. A sample from the
tumor is taken for ’

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Cl - right fallopian tube fimbria

C2 ~ right ovary

C3 - left fallopian tube fimbria

C4 — left ovary

C5 — anterior cervix

C6 — posterior cervix

C7 — posterior cul-de-sac

C8 - anterior LUS

C9 - posterior LUS

Clo—C14 — endometrial tumor from the anterior wall to show greatest depth
of invasion

C15-C20 - endometrial tumor from the posterior wall to show greatest

depth of invasion

The remainder of the specimen is saved.

This user-modiﬁable Microsoft Word document does not constitute a patient report.
It is provided as a tool for research purposes only.

