Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure. or reproduction of this information is strictly prohibited.

regarding

Anat Path Reports

  

* Final Report "

Document Type: Anat Path Reports
Document Date:

Document Status: Auth (Veriﬁed)

Document Title:
Performed By:

Veriﬁed By: " 8413: 5642.01?) 6.5 WW>

9'0
Encounter into: C 7‘
* Final Report *
(Veriﬁed) UUID:AFQDFFA6-AED9-4llB-BZBl-9A65A3AD5ESD

TceA-Qc-A7es-e1A-pn Mimic“

l
llllllllllllllllllllllllilll ill lllllllllllllllllllllllll
Patient Name: Acc #2
MRN: ooe: Fmge;

Location: ., ' Gender:

Collected:
Client: Received:
Submitting Reported:
Phys:

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Flnal Patholo ic Dia nosis
SOFT TISSUE, SCALP MASS. RESECTION:

- PLEOMORE‘HIC UNDIFFERENTIATED SARCOMA, HIGH GRADE, SEE SYNOPTIC AND COMMENT.

- IMMUNOSTAINS ARE DIFFUSELY POSITIVE FOR SMA. FOCALLY POSITIVE FOR p63 AND NEGATIVE FOR
DESMIN, S100-PROTEIN, SOX-10, HMWCK AND AE‘IIAE3.

Comment
Although p63 is focally positive. the histologic appearance is more in keeping with sarcoma than sarcomatoid carcinoma.
Selected sections reviewed with ' who agrees with this assessment.

Electronically Signed by

Assisted by:
Printed by: Page 1 of 3
Printed on:

(Continued)

Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding conﬁdentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of regarding
patient information. Any unauthorized use. disclosure. or reproduction ofthis information is strictly prohibited.

Anat Path Reports _

* Final Report *

Synoptic Worksheet
A. Radical resection scalp sarcoma: short stitch-anterior; long stitch-lateral:

Preresection Treatment: No therapy

Procedure: Radical resection

Tumor Site: Scalp

Histologic Type: Undifferentiated pleomorphic high grade sarcoma
Histologic Grade: Grade 3

Macroscopic Extent of Tumor: Superficial - Subcutaneous/suprafascial
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.2 cm

Additional Dimension: 1.8 cm
Additional Dimension: 0.4 cm

Margins: Margin(s) positive for sarcoma
Margin(s): Deep

Mitotic Rate: 44 I10 high-power fields (HPF)

Necrosis: Not identified

Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified

Treatment Effect: Not identified

lmmunohistochemisiw: SMA and p63: POSITIVE; S100, SGK'lD, AE1/AE3. desmin and HMWCK:
NEGATIVE '

Cytogenetics: Not performed

Molecular Pathology: Not performed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pTla: Tumor 5 cm or less in greatest dimension. superﬁcial tumor

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

Number of nodes examined: 0
Number of nodes positive: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: Necrotizing dermal granuloma; Fite, acid-fast, and GMS stains are negative

 

Clinical History
None provided.

Specimenm Received

A: Radical resection scalp sarcoma; short stitch-anterior: long stitch-lateral

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient‘s name and medical record number designated as “radical resection
scalp sarcoma; short stitch. anterior; long stitch, lateral“ on the container and consists of an oriented circular skin excision (6.2
cm in diameter. excised to a depth of 0.8 cm) with a short stitch designating anterior and a long stitch designating lateral.
Centrally located on the specimen is a bulging subcutaneous mass, 2.2 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is inked as follows:
anterior. red; posterior, green; lateral, blue; medial. orange; deep. black. The subcutaneous mass is 2.5 cm from the anterior

Printed by: Page 2 of 3
Printed on: (Continued)

Conﬁdential Document
This information is subject to all Federal and State laws regarding confidentiality and privacy and to the policies and procedures of

patient information. Any unauthorized use, disc losure, or reproduction ol‘this information is strictly prohibited.

Anat Path Reports a

* Final Report *

regarding

margin. 2.5 cm from the posterior margin, 2.2 cm from the lateral margin. and 2.4 cm from the medial margin. Sectioning reveal
an ovoid red-tan soft mass with a greatest depth of 1.2 cm. less than 0.1 cm from the deep margin. Representative sections are
submitted according to the cassette summary: Select tissue was submitted for . Dictated by

CASSETTE SUMMARY:

A1-A10: Full thickness cross sections of specimen including mass (entirely), trisected. submitted anteriorly to posteriorly

(central portion including mass in odd numbered cassettes. lateral and medial thirds in even numbered

cassettes)
A1 1: Anterior margin. shaved
A12: Posterior margin. shaved
Printed by: Page 3 of 3
Printed on:

(End of Report)

Criteria I m
DiSCr
Turrml
Iii-PM
Prior

    

Case is
Reviewer

 

