 

 

    

COLL : SUEWI DR :

ENTERED: — sp TYPE: SURGICAL. P OTHR DR: —

ORDERED: 88305, 88307/2, 88313, 88331, LEVEL 1V — GROS, LEVEL V'- GROSS/2, SPECIA
PATHOLOGY CONSU
PRIORITY: FROZEN SEC

SURGICAL PROCEDURES:
LUNG—LOBRCTOMY, REGIONAL IXMPH

ULSCRIPTIGN

 

A- The specimen is submitted fresh for frozen section as "right lower
lobe lung wedge" and consists of a wedge—shaped segment of lung measuring
7 x 2 x 2 cm. The pleural surface is pink tan to gray tan and reticulated
with deposits of black carbon pigment interrupted by a ragged approximate
1 cm pleural area which will be marked with black dye. Sectioning reveals
a tan lesion measuring 1 cm in dimension, approaching 0-7 cm or the
stapled margin directly underlying the pleura- The staple line is removed
and the surgical margin marked with blue dye- Representative sections are
submitted, 4 (2) labeled "1" and "2"; and l (1) labeled - used. for
frozen section-

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: Non—small cell ca which appears to be
involving a central bronchus; favor primary
squamous carcinoma.

B. The specimen is submitted fresh as "anterior interlobar node" and
consisLs of four gray black nodular segments of tissue ranging 0-6 cm to
l-6 cm in dimension. Hisection or the largest is unremarkable. The
specimen is submitted in toto, 5 (l), the three Smaller intact, the
largest bisected.

C. The specimen is submitted fresh as "right lower lobe" and consists of
a lobe o£ lung measuring 12-5 x 8 x 5 cm, weighing 179 grams. The pleural
surface is purple tan and reticulated with deposits of black carbon
pigment interrupted by two linear stapled margins measuring 3 and 4.5 cm
in dimension- A defined stapied bronchial margin is seen measuring 1.3 cm
in diameter. Three defined vascular margins are noted sealed with
'metallic staples ranging from 0-6 cm to l cm.in dimension. A single
defined node is seen at the hilum measuring 0.9 cm in diameter. Bisection
of the node is unremarkable. Dissection of the bronchial tree is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

