TCGA -AL—3471

Emil—-

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right Kidney Mass

Source of Specimen(s):
right Kidney resection with Adrenal gland

Gross Description:
Received in one part.
Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #1, "right kidney"

Frozen Section Diagnosis: IFS— PAPILLARY RENAL CELL CARCINOMA PER-

Gross Description: Received fresh labeled ",

right kidney". It consists of a 460 gram right nephrectomy consisting of

a kidney measuring 10.5 x 6 x 6 cm and perinephric fat measuring from 1 up
to 5 cm from point of attachment. Dissection through the fat discloses no
lesions, masses or nodal tissue. There is an area of fullness in the

lower pole of the nephrectorny. At the hilum there is a 0.5 cm of ureter.
The right ureter is opened and has a pin point lumen. The vascular margin
is also unremarkable. The kidney is bivalved disclosing a soft
predominantly necrotic mass in the lower pole that measures 4.4 x 3.5 x
3.5 cm. The lesion compresses the inferior calcyx. The tumor is soft,
necrotic, brownish~orange in color and towards the periphery there is some
more solid possible viable lesion. Representative sections from areas to
include possible lesion is submitted for frozen section in IFS. The
capsule and fat overlying the tumor are intact with no areas suspicious

for invasion. Elsewhere the parenchyma is normal with the usual
cortico-medulary junction present. Gross Photographs are Taken.

Designation of Sections: lA— vascular and ureter margin, lB— tumor in
relationship to calyceal system, 1C—1E- tumor, lF—lG— tumor with overlying
fascia and capsule, IHH uninvolved right kidney, 1L perinephiic fat

Note: Tissue is rocured and sent for Cytogenetic Studies.

 
 
  

 

>5 .‘>.<.‘=F>1¢>:¢>:=r.‘

Final Diagnosis:

1. Right-kl ney:
allow grid; papillary renal cell carcinoma (type 1).
— 4.45m; mor is limited to kidney.
“‘ '"'~‘"No,lyfnphovascular invasion is identified.
— Margins are negative for tumor.

 

— No lymph nodes are identified.
— Uninvolved kidney shows scattered globally sclerotic glomeruli.

— pleNXMX

Procedures/Addenda

FC Cytogenetics Solid Tumor
Results—Comments

CYTOGENETIC ANALYSIS REPORTS
DIAGNOSIS: Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma

KARYOTYPE: Abnormal karyotype: 42
46,X,—Y,+2,+3,-4,+8,+16,+17,+20[cp9]

One cell also contained an extra copy of
chromosome 7 among other numerical changes.

RESULTS: The renal mass was harvested after seven and nine days in

culture. Only nine metaphases could be found in a scan of ten slides.

The chromosomes from these metaphases were counted and analyzed, and four
of the metaphases were karyotyped by G—banding. All the cells contained
numerical chromosome abnormalities that are listed in the karyotypic
description above. The extra copies of chromosomes 16, 17, and 20 and the
missing. chromosome have all been reported in papillary renal cell
carcinoma (PRCC). Although only one cell contained an extra copy of
chromosome 7, this is a significant finding in PRCC.

 

