‘ l\ . u
' j I’ {
‘ 4... avg-L», ‘ _

-‘= " . - .‘n‘imttt “"3,- l
" .il, :

 

QC Pathologist:
*** ADDENDUM REPORT ***

ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER THREE

MSi, HNPCC: NEGATIVEThe DNA demonstrated a microsateiiite
stable pattern (M88) in 5 of 5 markers testedDNA was

extracted from tumor samples prepared by scraping tumor from
slideResults reviewed by 7, Vl.D.Paraftin block used

: 810-86 (TUMOR); 1510 I 82 (NORMAL)This panel is
composed of the five Bethesda microsateilite markers which
consist of two mononucleotide repeats (Le. BAT26 and BATZS)
and three dinucleotide repeats (Le. 058346, 1328123 and
0173250). This panel of markers is recommended for

colorectat neoplasia only. The 5 MS] loci aréamplified in a

single multiplex fluorescent PCR reaction: The PCR products

are then analyzed on an automated DNA sequencer with
automated allele calling and quality scoring. A tumor is

classiﬁed as microsatellite instability high (MSl—H) if two

or more of the five markers Show instability. A tumor is
ciassited as microsatetlite instability low (MSI—L) if only

one of the five markers shows instability. A tumor is

ciassified as microsatellite stabie (M88) if none of the

five markers show instability. Germline mutation analysis

for the mismatch repair genes (MLHi, MSH2 and MSH6) is
recommended for individuals with MSl—H tumorsfthis test was
developed and its perfgrmance characteristics have been
determined by . c ' __‘ Institutt y

. _. Performance charactel'rstlcs refer to tne

analytical performance of the test.

Addendum Report Issued Bi:

ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER TWO

KRAS Mutation Analysis

SPECtMEN SOURCE: LIVERPARAFFtN BLOCK NUMBER: i810 66952
AKRAS Mutation Analysis: POSITIVE(Abnormal) Results reviewed

by MR. M.D.Based on sequence anatysis,

K—Ras codon 12 GGT>GTT (612V) mutant was detectedActivating
K—ras mutations can be found in 30 u 40% of colorectal

cancer, 15—20% of lung cancer, and 60% of pancreatic cancer.
Presence of K—ras mutation in colorectat cancer has been

reported to render the tumor resistant to anti-EGFR

 

 

therapy.Totat nucleic acid we treated fromi’i ’ , —

paraffin-embedded tissue. For each sample. 2 PCR reactions
were performed to detect mutations at exon 1 (codon 12 \8 i3) ' "3‘
and exon 2 (codon 61) of the K—ras gene. The PCR products '
are then purified and sequenced in both forward a'nd'reverse . ‘_
directions. Sequencing data is analyzed and compared to a ' C ‘1
K-ras reference. The positivity of the mutation and location
will be reported.This assay may not be able to detect
mutation if the tumor constitutes less than 15-20% of
analyzed sample. However, we specifically microdissect tumor
and selectively analyze the tumor in the provided
tissue. guisﬁtest was developed and its performance‘
charac'eristics have been Hatnrmined by
Performance
cnaracteristics refer to the anaiyticai performance of the
test. ' .
NRAS Mutation Analysis: TNPTNP~Reflex testing not
required.Activating N—ras mutations can be found in 3% of
colorectal cancer, 1% of lung cancer, and 25% of small

intestine cancer. Presence of N-ras mutation in colorectal

cancer has been re orted to render the tumor resistant to
anti-EGFR therapy. otat nucleic acrd was extracted from

paraffin-embedded tissue. For each sample, 2 PCR reactions
were performed to detect mutations at exon 1 (codon 12 \& 13)
and exon 2 (codon 61) of the N-ras gene. The PCR products
are then purified and sequenced in both forward and reverse
directions. Sequencing data is analyzed and compared to a
Nsras reference. The positivity of the mutation and location
will be reported.This assay may not be able to detect
mutation if the tumor constitutes less than 15-20% of
analyzed sample. However, we specifically microdissect tumor
and selectively analyze the tumor in the provided
tissueThis test was developed and its performance
Characteriqiire have been determined by

Derl‘ormance
characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the
test.
BRAF Mutation Analysis: TNPTNP—Reflex testing not
required.Cancer—activating BRAF mutations can be found in
14% of colorecgal cancer, 2% of lung cancer, and 40% of
thyroid cancer. Presence of BRAF mutation in cotorectal
cancer has been reported to render the tumor resistant to
anti-EGFR therapy. Documented BRAF poiymorphism is usually
not reported and is a neutral variant (no amino acid
change).This assay may not be able to detect mutation if the
tumor constitutes less than 15-20% of analyzed sample.
However, we specifically microdissect tumor and selectively
analyze the tumor in the provided tissueThe BRAF mutation
analysis from 3 uses a DNA-based ‘
PCR—sequencing assay to detect somatic mutations on exon 11,
12, and 15 of BRAF, which cover 102 out of 104 reported
mutations (99.6% incidence).This test was developed and its
performance characteristics: have been determined by

’4

’\

[tie

it

Performance characteristics refer to the analytlcar . MRI

 

 

1h

 

performance of the test

PlecA Mutation Analysis: NOT DETECTEDResults reviewed by
I. Based on sequencing analysiq, no 4

mutations were detected in the P|K3CA gene exons 1, Fl, or

20.Paraffin block used: lSiO- -AActivating PIKBCA
mutations have been described in a number of human cancers,
most commonly in endometrlai. breast, and colorectal

cancers. PIKBCA mutations (when present) have been reported
to be associated with poor prognosis in each of these
malignancies. in addition, PIKSCA mutations have been
reported to correlate with resistance to cetuximab therapy
in colorectal cancer patients. The regions covered in this
analysis contain greater than 95% of the reported mutations
of the PlK3CA gene Total nucleic acid IS extracted and three
PCR reactions are performed to amplify the entirety of exons
1 9 and 20 of PlK3CA. PCR products are then purified and
sequenced in both the forward and reverse directionsFor
cases in which the tumor represents less than 10% of the
analyzed tissue, this assay may not be able to detect
mutations. Tumor samples submitted in a paraffin are usually
microdissected in order to increase the sensitivity of the
assay. This test was developed and its performance
characteristics have been determined by
‘ .- Performance
charactenstics refer to the analytical performance of the
test.
Test performed at

Addendum Report Issueo by
-J ,

ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER ONE

B. The immunohistochemical study of DNA mismatch repair_
gene expression reveals the presence of normal hMLH1, hMSHZ,
hMSHB and nPM82 expression in the tumor (internal controls
stain appropriately). The findings do not exclude underlying
Lynch Syndrome (also know as hereditary non-polyposis
colorectal carcinoma or HNPCC), because some mutations may
result in intact protein expression. in addition,

alterations could exist in MSH3, which has not been tested.
Finally, some hereditary colorectal cancers are caused by
alterations in other unknown genes (familial colorectal

cancer type X).

Additional testing using a PCR based test for

microsatellite instability (MSI) on the resected tumor will

be performed on this specimen and an additional addendum
will follow.

'M

FINAL PATHOLOGEC DiAGNOSlS;

A. Liver biopsy:

Metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with colon primary.
W_ B. Rectosigmcid colon, resection:

 

 

 

 

I umor characteristics:

1. Histologictype: Adenocarcinoma.

’2 Histologic grade?“ Low gradefmoderately differentiated
(G2)

3. Tumor site: Rectosigmoid colon.

4. Tumor size: 5.3 x 2.8 x 1.0 cm.

5. Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes.

6. Microscopic tumor extension:

a. Tumor invades through muscularis propria into subserosal
adipose tissue.

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Proximal margin Negative

2. Distal margin: Negative.

3. Circumferential (radial) margin. Negative.

4. Distance of tumor from closest margin: fl'umor is 0.6 cm
from radial marginlserosal surface.

Lymph Node Status:

1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 20.

2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic
carcinoma: 3 (3/20).

Other:

1. lmmunohistochemistry for DNA mismatch repair (MMR)
proteins will be performed— an addendum will follow. '

2. A KRAS mutation analysis will be performed as there is
metastatic disease — an addendum will follow.

3. pTNM stage: pT3 N1 M1.

COMMENTS:

CLINICAL HISTORY:

Preoperative Diagnosis: Colon carcinoma with liver mets
Postoperative Diagnosis:

SymptomsIRadiologic Findings:

SPECIMENS:

A. Liver biopsy

8. Rectosigmoid

 

1:

 

 

 

PROCEDURAL DEMOGRAPHICS:

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

Part A received in formalin labeled -. ‘_ . . and

“#1" are five cylindrical, tan-white soft tissues ranging

from 0.4 x 0.1 cm to 1.8 x 0.1 cm. which are submitted in
late in one cassette labeled

Part B received in formalin labeled and

”#2" is a 17.2 cm segment of colon with a moderate amount
of attached pericolic fat. The specimen cannot be oriented.-
The serosa is smooth and tan-pink. The mucosa consists of
a 5.3 x 2.8 cm circumferential, firm. granular, tan—pink

mass, 3.8 cm and 8.? cm from the stapled margins. The cut
surface of the mass is gray—white and extends into the
pericolic fat with a thickness of 0.2 cm. The remainder of
the mucosa is tan—pink with the normal folds. No additional
mucosal masses are identiﬁed. The inner circumference

 

1h

 

 

vii..- rrrrrrrrrrr

ranges from 1.8 cm to 4.1 cm and the wall thickness averages
0.2 cm. There are multiple irregular, tan—yellow firm. _
tissues consistent with probable lymph node ranging from 0.2
x 0.2 x 0.1 cm to 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.? cm. Also received in the
same container are two annular portions of tan mucosa
measuring 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm and 1.9 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm. There
is also a 3.2 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm aggregate of gray—white firm

tissue and yellow adipose tissue. The specimen is inked,
sectioned and representative sections are submitted as
labeled: Block 1 margin closest to mass; block 2 margin
furthest from mass; blocks 3 and 4 mass to inked serosa;
blocks 5 and 6 mass to underlying pericolic fat; block 7

mass to uninvolved mucosa; blocks 8-10 five whole probable
lymph nodes in each; blocks 11 and 12 three whole probable
lymph nodes in each; block 13 one lymph node bisected; block
14 representative sections of three lymph nodes; block 15
two annular rimsﬂof mucosa: block 16 additional aggregate of
tissue. The blocks are labeled I

received is a green and yellow cassette labeled for
genomic research study.

