 

 

COPY TO:

Operative Consult: "Pilt cam present in terminai ileum, no FS,
reported to Dr. — positive
patient tD"

Pre-Op Diagnosis

Obstructing right colon cancer

Post-Op Diagnosis

Same

Clinical History

Nothing indicated on requisition

Gross Description:

Container labeled _— right colon" is a 27.5 cm
previously opened portion of partially sectioned large bowel
including oecum as well as 9.5 cm of attached previously opened
slightly dilated terminal ileum. The specimen is covered by a
moderate amount of pericolic, epipioic. and omental adipose tissue
with a few ﬁbrous adhesions which kink the large bowel immediately
distal to the cecum. The serosa is shaggy and gray tan to pink.
The small bowel wall is up to 0.6 cm and ﬁbrotlc. The lumen is
lined by gray tan mucosa with preservation of intestinal folds and
slight granularity; however, no gross lesions are identiﬁed. The
large bowei wail is up to 0.6 cm, edematous, and ﬁbrotic. The
lumen is lined by gray tan mucosa with preservation of intestinal
folds. Extending from the ileocecal valve into the cecal pouch is a
previously sectioned markediy distorted centrally ulcerated finely
granular gray red to brown lesion measuring on reconstruction
approximately 7.5 x 5.5 cm. This markedly stenoses the lumen in the
area of the ileocecal valve which in one area on reconstruction
measures less than 0.8 cm in diameter. The lesion does not extend
to the appendiceal oriﬁce. Within the adipose tissue is a 6.6 x

0.8 x 0.8 cm grossly unremarkabie vermiform appendix. The lesion
has a gritty focally necrotic tan gray ﬁbrotlc cut surface and

 

grossly extends up to 1.6 cm in thickness. In most areas this
extends to but not through the serosa predominantly in the area of
the cecat pouch; however, in one area this grossly appears to
focally extend into the surrounding adipose tissue where it is seen
at its nearest point 1.0 cm from the nearest soft tissue margin.
The specimen is received after operative consult which is reported
as "piil cam present in terminal ileum, no FS. reported to Dr.
positive patient iD" by Dr. _ Separately
received in the specimen container is a 2.8 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm capsular
portion of foreign plastic material which one half is a transparent
lens. On one side this is labeled l'pill cam." Additionally noted
within thW tissue cassettes each
labeled “ Sectioning the surrounding
adipose tissue shows several poorly deﬁned gray yellow nodules up
to 1.0 cm. Representative sections are submitted iabeled as
follows: A — proximal margin, 3 - distal margin, C - representative
small bowel, D through G - representative lesion and surrounding
tissue, l-l - random uninvolved bowel, | - appendix, J through L -
nodules fro pericollc fat.

Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled — are examined. See diagnosis.

Final Diagnosis

Terminal ileum, appendix, and right colon (right hemicolectomy):
Terminal ileum: No carcinoma identified. PAS 1

Appendix: No carcinoma identiﬁed. PAS 1

Colon:

Tumor characteristics:

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.

Location of tumor: Cecum.

Size: 7.5 x 5.5 x 1.6 cm in greatest dimension.

Grade: Moderately differentiated.

Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular

space invasion identiﬁed.

Perforation of Visceral peritoneum: No.

Presence of mesenteric deposits: No.

Depth of invasion: Carcinoma extends through muscularis propria
into subserosal adipose tissue within less than 1 mm of the
serosal surface but no perforation identiﬁed grossly or
microscopically (see comment).

Surgical Margin Status:

Proximal Margin: No carcinoma identified.

Distal Margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed.

Deep Radial Margin: No carcinoma identiﬁed.

Distance of tumor from closet margin: Carcinoma extends to
within less than 1 mm of the serosal surface but no clear
perforation identiﬁed.

Lymph Node Status:

Total number of lymph nodes examined: 19

Total number of lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma: 0 (0/19)

PAS 9
Other:

Stenosis associated with tumor. PAS 3

Fibrous serosal adhesions. PAS 4

Grossly noted pill cam present within specimen. PAS 2 SPC-A

CPT: 88309 x1, 88329 x1

 

 

Stage: pT3N0

Comments

The carcinoma extends through muscularis propria into subserosal
adipose tissue. Microscopicaily, the carcinoma extends to within
less than 1 mm of the serosal surface but is not clearly perforated.
Clinical correlation and follow up is recommended.

At the request of the undersigned athologist, these slides have
been additionally reviewed byi

diagnosis.

ho concurs with the

 

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

 

