 
  

-
CGA-cs—saga
_
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right frontal Brain tumor (excision): anaplastic
oligodendroglioma, rade llI (WHO scale), see microscopic description,
see note /

2. Right frontal brain tumor (excision): anaplastic
oligodendroglioma, grade ill (WHO scale), see microscopic description,
see note

Comment:

The proliferation index is within the expected range for an anaplastic
oligodendroglioma. — reviewed selected slides and
concurs with the presence of malignancy in this material. FISH
analysis for the 1p/19q deletion that is characteristic of many
oligodendrogliomas is pending and when completed, a separate report
will be issued.

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

 

Microscopic Description:

Specimen #1 contains areas of classic oligodendroglioma but no
anaplasia. Foci of anaplasia are present in specimen #2 (slides 2A and
2B) and include a significantly elevated mitotic rate, microvascular
proliferation, and necrosis. The findings are diagnostic of an

anapiastic oligodendroglioma, grade III (WHO sCaie).
lmmunohistochemistry for the proliferation antigen Ki67 was performed
as follows: three 250 x 250 micron fields were counted and the

percentage of labeled nuclei determined. Over 1000 cells were counted.

 

 

.The proliferation index ranged from 12.3% to 18% with an overall
average of 16%.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:
1. Right frontal tumor: Neoplasm present. Final diagnosis deferred.

Clinical Historyand Diagnosis:
Right frontal mass

Source of Specimen:
1: Right frontal tumor
2: Right frontal tumor

Gross Description:

1. Right frontal tumor: Received fresh for frozen section

consultation in a container labeled with the patient's name and "#1

right frontal tumor consistent with oligodendroglioma" are multiple
fragments of soft, red-tan tissue measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x1.0 cm in
aggregate. Touch preparations and frozen section analysis are performed
on approximately 20% of the specimen. The specimen is entirely
submitted in eight cassettes for routine processing.

2. Right frontal tumor: Received in a specimen container labeled with
the patient's name and "#2 right frontal tumor with calcification" are
multiple fragments of tan-white soft tissue that is diffusely
hemorrhagic and measures 5.5 x 5.0 2.0 cm in aggregate. Sectioning
reveals tan-White cut surfaces and diffuse calcification.
Representative sections are submitted in 6 cassettes.

Histology Laboratory

.1: Right frontal tumor
1p - FISH

MOLECULAR -

Kl 67

Immunohistochemistry Notes
1. Quantification of immunohistochemistry assay for ER and PR studies

is by the method Of Battiafora et.al. _
—

2. Hercept Test (DakOCytomation) Formaiin fixed, paraffin embedded.
interpretation follows the manufacturer‘ 5 recommendation.

EGFR pharme Clone 2-18C9 Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded.
Interpretation follows the manufacturer' 3 recommendation.

Doucmented by

3. Analyte Specific Reagent (ASCR) Disclaimer. The use of one or more
reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent
(ASR).

These tests were developed and their performance characteristics

determined by the Clinical Laboratory Of—

They have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration.

The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not
necessary.

MEDICAL GENETICS REPORT

EVALUATiON:

ASSAY PERFORMED: del(1p)del(19q) BY FLUORESCENT lN-SITU HYBRIDIZATION
(FISH)

RESULT: Positive for the deletion of 1p
Positive for the deletion of 19q

I I 200

1p36/1q24

Number of Nuciei scored: 200
Ratio of 1p/1 q: 0.59

% cells with del 1p: 71%

19q13/19p13

Number of Nuclei scored: 200
Ratio of 19q/19p: 0.61

% cells with del 19g: 71 .5%

iNTERPRETATION: The results are less than the normal range and suggest
deletions of 1p and 19g in this anaplastic oligodendroglioma

_ del (1 p) and del(19q) has been observed in glioma

specimens, especially oligodendrogliomas. Clinical and pathologic
correlation is recommended.

 

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
Of record.

 

Data Analysis:

DESCRIPTION OF THE ASSAY: 1p and i9q FISH studies were performed on
paraffin embedded tumor sections. Two hybridizations were performed:
one with a 1p/1 q probe/control pair and one with a 19q/19p
probe/control pair. The 19q and 1p probes map to regions that are
commonly deleted in gliomas. The nuclei are counterstained with DAPI
and the cells examined by epi-fluorescence microscopy. The total
number of counts for each probe is determined in 200 cells and the
ratios of 1p/1 q and 19q/19p are calculated.

Normal range: The normal ratio is approximately 1. Any ratio > 0.80 is
considered normal.

LiMlTATlONS: Low levels of malignant cells in the Specimen can result
in a false negative result.‘As with all laboratory tests, sampling

error and other factors may affect the outcome of the assay.
Correlation Of resultswith other clinical and laboratory data should
be Obtained.

. - COMMENT: This test was developed and its performance characteristics
determined by the Molecular Pathology Laboratory at

  
 

 

 

This test is not to be used as a diagnostic procedure without
confirmation of the diagnosis by another medically established product
or procedure.

Histology Laboratory

 

