Wd- ICGA—As-assz

Result Name Results Units Reference Range
Surgical Pathology COPY TO:
COPY To:

Pre—Op Diagnosis

Left renal mass

Post—Op Diagnosis

Nothing indicated

Clinical History

Nothing indicated

Gross Description:

Received in a single container labeled m — left kidney" is
a previously bisected 1040 gram left nephrectomy specimen surrounded
by a large amount of perinephric adipose tissue and faced anteriorly
by a moderate amount of Gerota's fascia. The specimen on
reconstruction measures 24.0 x 13.8 x 9.8 cm. The margins of
resection include 1.5 cm of grossly patent renal artery, 1.3 cm of
grossly patent renal vein and 7.0 cm of grossly patent ureter. The
capsule strips with ease to reveal an organ measuring 12.4 x 8.5 x
6.9 cm on reconstruction. There is a lobulated slightly pale
red—brown slightly granular cortex. The cortex measures up to 1.0 cm
and is slightly granular red-brown. The corticomedullary junction is
poorly defined. The medulla is rederown with sharp papillae. The
calyces and pelvis are lined by Smooth graywwhite mucosa extending
into the ureter. Noted on the posterior aspect extending into the
hilus is a well~defined 5.2 x 4.8 x 4.5 cm thinly encapsulated
gray—tan to yellow nodule with a friable focally chalky, focally
hemorrhagic gray—yellow to brown cut surface. The capsule appears
grossly intact. This lesion grossly extends beyond the plane of the
kidney into the surrounding adipose tissue; however, the capsule does
not appear to be grossly transected. The lower pole calyx immediately

- adjacent to the lesion is dilated with a 0.6 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm granular

brown—black calculus within the calyx. The lesion further appears to
compress hilar adipose tissue and structures but does not grossly
appear to extend into them. On further sectioning this parenchyma
reveals a second slightly dilated lower pole calyx which has a 0.4 x
0.3 x 0.2 on similar gray—brown to black calculus. Within the
parenchyma adjacent to these dilated oalyces there is a 0.4 x 0.4 x
0.4 cm well—defined unencapsulated tanwwhite fibrotic—appearing
nodule. No additional gross lesions are identified. Within the

s ecimen container are three tissue cassettes each labeled
_" Representative sections are submitted labeled as
follows: A — vascular and ureteral margin: B~H ~ lesion and
Surrounding tissue; I ~ random uninvolved parenchyma with dilated
calyx and parenchymal nodule.

Microscopic Description:

 

 

Reviewed are slides labeled—

Final Diagnosis
Kidney, leftr nephrectomy:

Tumor characteristics:
Histologic type: Renal cell carcinoma, conventional (clear

type
Tumor site: Posterior left kidney
Size: 5.2 x 4.8 x 4.5 cm
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 3/4
Lymphovascular space invasion: Present
Transcapsular invasion: Not identified
Renal vein invasion: Not identified
Vena caval invasion: Not resected
Adrenal gland: Not resected
Surgical margin status:
1. Soft tissue margins: Negative for malignancy
2. Ureteral margin: Negative for malignancy
3. Vascular margins: Negative for malignancy
Lymph node status:
Not applicable (no lymph nodes resected with tumor specimen).
Other significant findings:

{D
p...
p...

I

HtDOUuJONLﬂ‘D-WNOI‘“

O -

    
  

1. 0.4 cm renal calculus.
2. Microscopic healed renal infarct
Stage:
ple Nx Mx PAS 9 .SPC—NG
CPT: 88309
Comment
This case has been reviewed by Dr who concurs with the
diagnosis.

This test has been finalized at the
Electronically Signed by: #

 

 

 

 

