mayor}

Cat/mam, fag/Ham, WK 8200/3
Collection Date 57/). 2 Mud, N55 C '73- 9

Case Number :

9/1 8/” [J

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

A: Parathyroid, right inferior, biopsy

- One lymph node, negative for malignancy (O/l).
- Negative for parathyroid tissue.

B: Parathyroid, right superior, biopsy
— Benign normocellular parathyroid tissue.

_ Negative for malignancy. UUID:1D87SOSD-1F7D—4545-BS79-EF942530235A

TCGA-DE—AaYB-elA-PR Redacted
c. Parathyroid, leﬁ superior, biiipsy Ill llIllIllIIlllllllIIIHIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllll ,
- Benign normocellular parathyroid tissue. iiiiliiiiliiilliiiiilili ii i "i lllllll ll“ “

l Ill l
- Negative for malignancy. Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllll|l||||l|||| llllllllllllllllllllll

D: Muscle, left cricoid thyroid, biopsy
— Metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma present in muscle and soﬁ tissue.
— Dystrophic calciﬁcations

E: Lymph nodes, left neck, Levels 24, removal
- l of 16 lymph nodes positive for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma, 6 mm in greatest dimension,
extracapsular extension present (1/16).

F : Lymph nodes, leﬁ neck, Level 6, reveal

- Three of six lymph nodes positive for metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma, 6 mm in greatest dimension,
extracapsular extension present (3/6).

- Benign normocellular parathyroid tissue.

- Ectopic thymic tissue, negative for malignancy.

G: Thyroid, total thyroidectomy

Histologic tum type: Papillarxtllxrsiéssttiﬁf’fes
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 2.5 cm

Tumor growth pattern: invasive

Invasive properties:

Extra-thyroidal soft tissues: papillary thyroid carcinoma extends into surrounding skeletal muscle
Capsular: not identiﬁed

Lymphovascular: present

Blood vascular: not identiﬁed

Tumor multicentricity: There are-two foci (if papillary thyroid carcinoma present; the largest is in the left
thyroid lobe measuring 2.5 cm and there is a small microscopic (1 mm in greatest diameter) focus in the
mid right thyroid lobe.

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: Papillary thyroid carcinoma extends to the left anterior margin
and is within 1 mm of the left posterior margin and extends into the isthmus. The anterior and posterior
margins of the

right lobe of the thyroid are widely negative.

 

Status of thyroid gland away from tumor: non-neoplastic goiter with cystic degeneration and chronic
thyroiditis

Lymph nodes: see previous specimens

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
A frozen section was requested.

FSAl: Parathyroid gland, right inferior
- One lymph node with no evidence of malignancy

FSBl: Parathyroid, right superior'
- Normocellular parathyroid tissue

FSCl: Parathyroid, left superior
- Normocellular parathyroid tissue

FSDl: Left cricoid thyroid
— Positive for malignancy consistent with involvement by papillary thyroid carcinoma

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
papillary thyroid cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are seven appropriately labeled containers.

Container A: Received fresh for frozen section and labeled "right inferior parathyroid” is a less than 0.1
gram, 2 x 2 x 2 mm pink/tan soft tissue fragment; block F SAl, .

Container B: Received fresh for frozen section and labeled "right superior parathyroid" is a less than 0.1
gram, 2 x 3 x 2 mm pink/tan soft tissue fragment; block FSBI.

Container C: Received fresh for frozen section and labeled "left superior parathyroid" is a less than O.l
gram, 2 x 2.5 x 2 mm red/tan soft tissue fragment; block FSCl,

Container D is additionally labeled "leﬁ cricoid muscle." it holds a 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm irregularly shaped
fragment of cauterized red/tan soﬁ tissue; block F SDl , NTR.

Container E is additionally labeled "left neck, Level 2-4." It holds a 6.4 x 4.2 x 1.6 cm aggregate of
cauterized lobulated yellow/tan fibrofatty tissue containing lymph node candidates up to 1.3 cm in greatest
dimension.

El - eight lymph node candidates

E2 - ﬁve lymph node candidates

E3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected

E4 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

E5 - one lymph node candidate (largest), sectioned

Container F is additionally labeled "leﬁ neck Level 6." It holds a 3.4 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm aggregate of cauterized
yellow/tan ﬁbrofatty tissue containing lymph node candidates up to 1 cm in greatest dimension.

Fl - four lymph node candidates

F2,F3 - remainder of fat,

Container G:

Specimen fixation: formalin

Type of specimen: total thyroidectomy

Size and weight of specimen: 22.9 gram; left lobe: 3.5 x 3.2 x 0.8 cm, right lobe: 4.5 x 3.3 x 2.7 cm;
centrally attached by an isthmus remarkable for a 1.9 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm pyramidal lobe

Orientation: There is a long suture present on the left lobe. The anterior surface is marked blue, the
posterior surface is marked black and the isthmus marked yellow.

Tumor location: in the left lobe, medial aspect
Tumor description: solid, centrally calciﬁed, yellow/tan with ill-deﬁned borders
Tumor size: 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.2 cm

Conﬁnement/non-conﬁnement to the thyroid gland: The tumor extends to blue and black inked surgical
margin and is questionably conﬁned to the gland.

Distance of tumor from surgical margins: less than 0.1 cm from the blue anterior inked margin and black
posterior inked margin; focally approaches the isthmus

Appearance of thyroid gland away from tumor: dark red/brown; the right lobe of the thyroid is remarkable
for a 2.5 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm unilocular thin walled cyst containing tan liquid; the lining of the cyst is smooth,
white/tan and glistening; the remaining right lobe is dark red/brown and grossly unremarkable

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes; Tumor and normal are given to Tissue procurement
Lymph nodes: submitted separately

Digital photograph taken:

Block Summary:
(lnking: anterior/blue, posterior/black, isthmus/yellow)

Gl - superior tip, left lobe

GZ-GS - leﬂ lobe, superior towards inferior, respectively (G6 contains relationship to isthmus and ‘
pyramidal lobe)

G9-G 15 — right thyroid, superior towards inferior respectively,

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by

Signature

Attending Pathologist:

I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above
diagnosis(es)

