UUID: E1F9339F- -DEI8- 45CD- ABCC- -5D7C336RCEeOBIac
TCGA- RV- A847- --91A PR

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|III|IIIIIIIII||I|||I|||||IIIIIIIIeIIIIIIIIIe
IIIlIIIIl||||I||llIllIIIlIlIIIlIIIllIIIII|Il IIII
I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||I|I|IIIIIIII|I|II||I

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 
 

Patient Name.
Med. Rec.#:
DOB:

Soc. Sec. #:

Physician(s):

Accession #: —
Visit #

: Service Date:
Sex: Male Received:

Location: Cl lent:

   

 

FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS
A. Brain, right frontal mass, biopsy: Oligodendroglioma, WHO grade II; see comment.

B. Brain, right frontal mass, resection: Oligodendroglioma, WHO grade II; see
comment.

C. Brain, CUSA contents, resection: Oligodendroglioma, WHO grade 11; see comment.

COMMENT:
Sections show inﬁltrating glioma cells with round, regular and monotonous nuclei, with sharply defined
nuclear membranes and ample cytoplasm. There is no evidence of increased mitotic activity,

microvascular proliferation or necrosis. These ﬁndings are diagnostic of ollgodendroglioma, WHO grade
II.

Immunohistochemistry for IDH1 will be performed and the results will be reported in an addendum. In
addition, fluorescence in- situ hybridization for 1p19q will be performed at the
laboratory and the results will be reported separately.

 

Intraoperative Diagnosis

F51 (A) Brain, tumor, biopsy: Low~grade glioma, most consistent with oligodendrogiioma, WHO grade
II. Tissue section and cytologic preparation.

Gross Description

The specimen is received fresh in three parts, each labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Part A, additionally labeled "1 — tumor - FS," consists of a single, irregular, unoriented, red~yellow
gelatinous brain tissue fragment (1.3 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm). Representative sections are submitted for frozen
section diagnosis 1 and cytologic preparation. The frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette A1
and the remaining tissue is entirely submitted in cassette A2.

5,6433%410, gm f 9450/5

w,ﬁ1—/DMLEMNOG Q7) 0
isth— @Vﬁwmg/«WW @711

Gab robe/)3

 

Part B, additionally labeled "tumor - perm," consists of two pieces of tissue. The smaller (1.4 x 1.1 x
0.6 cm) is soft, irregularly-shaped, and white. The larger piece (2.6 x 2.1 x 1.1 cm) is
irregularly-shaped and has a dark pink-red cortical surface with prominent gyri. The cut surfaces are
ﬁrm and comprised predominantly of white matter, with a narrow rim of dark pink-tan gray cortex (0.2
cm). The entire specimen is submitted in cassettes as follows:

BI: Smaller piece.

BZ-BB: Larger piece. '

Part C, additionally labeled “CUSA contents perm," consists of numerous, small, irregularly-shaped
fragments of soft, white~tan to pink-red tissue (7 x 6 x 2 cm). Representative sections are submitted in
cassettes C1-C12.

Clinical History
Relevant Historyzelioma

The patient is a -year—oid man with a right frontal brain mass, most consistent with a low'grade
giioma.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist following review of all
pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary interpretations performed by any resident
involved in the case and performed all necessary edits before signing the ﬁnal report.

 

Pathology Resident Pathologist
Signed:
Addendum Data Ordered: Status: Signed Out
Date Complete: ‘ By: ‘

Date Reported:

Addendum Diagnosis

This addendum is issued to report immunohistochemical ﬁndings and does not change
the diagnosis for the case.

Addendum Comment

Immunohistochemicai studies performed and evaluated at our laboratory show that the neoplastic cells
are positive with the antibodies against IDH-l (R132H mutant) protein.

The immunohistochemical stain reported above was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the ~

The stain has not been cleared or approved by the U. 5. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be
regarded as investigationai or for research. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical Laboratory improvement Amendments
of 1988 (‘CLIA‘l as qualified no perform high—complexity clinical testing.

Pathologist
Resident
Electronically signed out on

 

 
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 

'rlterla

Tumor Site

  

ilF‘A/A
rior

as: Is
nwawcr

