 

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED “SIGMOID COLON, PARTIAL COLECTOMY" [23.2 cm):

ADENOCARCINOMA, LOW GRADE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIRTED (5.8 Cm in greatest
dimension}.

Tumor is located in sigmoid colon, forms a polypoid and fungating mass, is
ulcerative, and has an infiltrating border-

Tumor invades into the muscularis propria.

Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor.
Invasive tumor is 7.5 cm from the closest mucosal resection margin.
Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.

Extramural venous invasion is not identified.

Perineural invasion is not identified.

Peritumoral lymphoid response (including Crohn?s—like infiltrate} is not
present-

Residual adenoma is absent.
Regional lymph nodes (positive: total): 0:13
AJCC Classification-(6th edition): pT2 NU MK.

Associated diseases include hyperplastic polyps and diverticulosis.

E. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "PROXIMAL DONUT":

Colonic mucosa, negative for tumor.

C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "DISTAL DONUT“:

Colonic mucosa, negative for tumor.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: Invasive adenocarcinoma.
Operation: sigmoid colectomy.
Operative Findings: None given-
Clinical Diagnosis: Colon CA.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
All) Sigmoid colon — (Tissue Bank open and return)

BIZ) Proximal donut

 

 

 

 

C/3) Distal donut

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, and labeled with the patient's name and medical

record number and consists of three parts.

Part A, "#1. sigmoid colon," consists of a segment of colon (23.2 cm in length
x 2.8 cm in diameter) with a 3.2 on open resection margin inked blue and a 3.0
cm stapled resection margin inked green. There is a tan/pink centrally
ulcerated polypoid mass (5-8 x 3.6 x 0.9 cm) that is 7.5 cm_to the stapled
resection margin, and 12.6 cm to the open resection margin. The mass appears
to invade the muscularis, but not through the serosa. A section of this mass
is representatively submitted to the tissue bank. The radial resection margin
is inked black. There is also a tan/pink sessile polyp (0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 am]
that is 9-0 cm to the open resection margin and 4-5 cm from the mass. There
are four other tan/pink sessile polyps ranging in size from 0.3 to 0.5 cm. The
closest of which is 1-0 cm to the open resection margin. A portion of normal
colonic mucosa is also submitted to the tissue bank. None of the polyps appear
to invade into the lamina propria.

Micro Al: Stapled resection margin to in potential polyp, J frag, -
Micro A2: Open resection margin, 1 frag,

Micro ABeAG: Representat' tions of the tumor with radial resection
margin, 1 frag per blockw

Micro A7: Polyp #2 that is from the mass, 1 frag,'

Micro A8: Polyp #3, 1 frag,“

Micro A9: Polyp #4 near open ion margin, 1 frag,

Micro A10: Polyp #5, 1 fragﬂ

Micro All-«11.17: Candidate lymp no es, multi frags-

Part B, "#2. Proximal donut," consists of a portion of bowel (1.0 cm in length
x 2.1 cm in diameter) that is attached to a circular metallic stapling device
(2-6 cm in diameter x 5.0 cm in length) . The entire portion of bowel which
contains no visible lesions is submitted.

Micro B1: Entirely submitted specimen, 2 frags,
Part C, "#3. Distal donut", consists of a portion 0 owel (1.9 cm x 1.5 x 0.9

cm] with no gross lesions. Approximately 80% of the specimen is separable from
the staples and is submitted. '

Micro C1—C2: Distal donut, multi frags, -

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination (“gross only" exam if so stated]
of the described specimen(s} and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es}
related thereto-

 

