Page I of 8

UUID:37760635-A828-4049-AA36-21FA18D4C04F

TCGA- T2-A6NZ-91A-PR

I
— Dept
Phone:
MRN :— Enccsuntzl'r

Redacted
|| || ||||||||||||||||||||||||| |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
||||||l|ll Ill lHllllll
Illl|l||||||||||||||l|||||

Description: Male DOB:-

 

 

 

 

Department:
Order Surgical Pathology Request (Order
_E_ntry Date
Result Narrative
ADDENDUM
ADDENDUM REPORT ) : THIS ADDENDUM REPORT SUPERSEDES THE REPORT ISSUED

THE DIAGNOSIS IS UNCHANGED.

An immunohistochemical study for EGFR demonstrates moderate to strong labeling of
nearly all tumor cells with an H score of 220 (5% at O, 0% at 1+, 65% at 2+, 30%

at 3+).

one of our

pathologists, has also reviewed this

additional study and she concurs with the above assessment.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

A) Left tongue, pharynx and neck zones 1, 2 and 3 soft tissue, near total
glossectomy, partial pharyngectomy, left neck dissection:

Left tongue and oral pharynx, glossectomy and pharyngectomy:

~ Invasive well to moderately-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (7 cm)
involving the left posterolateral tongue, pharynx and soft palate; tumor extends
to the right/midline lingual specimen margin (see parts B-F and J for separately

submitted and final margins)

Left neck zones 1, 2, 3, dissection:

— Zone 1: Five lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/5)
- Zone 2: One lymph node, negative for tumor (0/1)
- Zone 3:

nodes (1/6)

Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma {0.41 cm) involving one of six lymph

— Squamous cell carcinoma abutting but not invading the submandibular gland

capsule

B) True midline tongue margin, excision:
- Negative for carcinoma

C) Left true vallecula margin, excision:
- Negative for carcinoma

D) True midline pharyngeal margin, excision:
- Negative for carcinoma

E) Left true superior tonsil margin, excision:

— Negative for carcinoma

22 , , 5630-5 ”0.3
13411:. 3 -3 9070/3

MW ZSWD [ﬂ

Wm!
WM 44W “”5
94¢ spa/13

 

— ”92°”

F) Medial posterior mobile tongue, excision: ‘
- Negative for carcinoma

G) Right neck soft tissue, dissection:

— Zone 1: Six lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/6)

— Zone 2a Ten lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/10)

- Zone 2b: Twenty lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/20)
— Zone 3: Eight lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/8)

- Zone 4: Six lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/6)

H) Teeth, #22, 24 and 25, extractions:
— Three teeth without significant histopathologic changes

I) Additional left posterior neck, zones 2 and 3, dissection:

- Zone 2b: Nineteen lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/19)

— Zone 3: Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (0.46 cm) involving one of eight
lymph nodes (1/8) with focal extranodal extension

J) Additional right anterior tongue margin, excision:

- Negative for carcinoma

COMMENTS
The results of studies for HPV and EGFR will be reported as an addendum.

one of our surgical pathologists, has also
reviewed slides from this case and she concurs with the above diagnosis.

was notified of our findings by secure electronic mail.

CLINICAL HISTORY

The patient is a -year-old male with biopsy-proven left base of tongue squamous
cell carcinoma.

DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY

~ Specimen: Portions of tongue, oropharynx and soft palate, left and right neck
lymph nodes and teeth

- Procedure: Near total glossectomy, partial pharyngectomy, partial palatectomy,
left neck dissection (1-3), right neck dissection (1-3) and teeth extractions

- Specimen Laterality: Left and midline tongue, right and left neck tissue

— Tumor Site: Oropharynx including left posterolateral tongue, posterior pharynx
and soft palate

- Tumor Focality: Single focus

— Tumor Size: 7 cm

- Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma

- Histologic Grade: G1-2 (Well to moderately—differentiated)

— Margins: Though carcinoma involves the midline/right lingual margin in the main
resection specimen (part A), separately submitted lingual margins (parts 8, F and
J) are uninvolved by carcinoma

— Lymph—Vascular Invasion: Not identified
- Perineural Invasion: Present
— Lymph Nodes, Extranodal Extension: Focally present
- Pathologic Staging for Cropharynx Lesion (pTNM)
- ~ Primary Tumor: pT3 (Tumor > 4 cm in greatest dimension or extension to the
lingual surface of epiglottis)

—

— Pagesofs

- ~ Regional Lymph Nodes: pN2b (Metastasis in multiple ipsilateral lymph nodes,
none >6 cm)
9 - - 89 lymph nodes examined, 2 involved
- - Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A) Received fresh, labeled W and designated "left near-
total glossectomy and part1 p aryngec ne k dissection zones 1, 2, 3",
is a glossectomy, pharyngectomy, neck dissection specimen. The tongue is 9.5 cm
anterior to posterior, 4.5 cm left to right and 3.4 cm superior to inferior. The
pharyngectomy specimen is 6.8 cm anterior to posterior, 3.0 cm left to right and
3.9 cm superior to inferior. The neck dissection is 3.0 x 6.1 x 3.4 cm. The

specimen is oriented per the specimen container as follows:

Single stitch superior tonsil margin, double long stitch left vallecula, double
short stitch neck dissection zone 3. There is another single stitch that is
oriented in person by a member of the surgical team as a prominent lymph node in
zone 1A on the left side. The specimen is inked as follows:

Right side of tongue margin = red

Base of tongue margin = blue

Inferior portion of tongue margin = black
Vallecula margin = orange

Posterolateral oropharynx margin 2 green
Superior tonsillar margin a yellow

Floor of mouth margin a orange

Lateral oropharynx margin = black

Gross photographs are taken.

The neck dissection tissue is removed and the resultant exposed tissue is inked
yellow. The tongue, left floor of mouth and left oropharynx contain a large
ulcerated mass with deep furrows and papillary structures. This irregular
ulcerated mass measures 7 x 4.5 cm. The ulcerations extend 1.8 cm into the
tongue from the surface. The lesion is 1.4 cm from the right tongue margin, 0.8
cm from the anterior floor of mouth margin, 0.9 cm from the superior tonsillar
margin, 2.3 cm from the posterolateral oral pharynx margin, 1.6 cm from the
vallecula margin, and 1.4 cm from the base of tongue margin. Small portions of
tissue have been taken from the lesion as well as uninvolved tongue for tissue
banking. The tongue is serially sectioned to reveal a white, fibrotic,
spiculated lesion that extends to within 0.4 cm of the deep margin.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

(A1) Tumor to right tongue margin

(A2) Tumor to base of tongue margin

(A3) Tumor to vallecula margin

(A4) Tumor to posterolateral oral pharynx margin

(A5) Tumor to superior tonsillar margin

(A6) Tumor to anterior floor of mouth margin, includes inked surface denoting
where the neck dissection was removed (yellow ink not a surgical margin)
(A7-A10) Right side of tongue shave margin from anterior to posterior (en face)

(A11) Remaining inferior portion of right side of tongue shave margin (en face)
(Al2-Al3) Tumor

(A14) Tumor to deep margin

(A15) Sutured 1A left lymph node, bisected
(A16) Remaining tissue of zone is

(A17) Remaining tissue of zone 1a

(A18) Two candidate lymph nodes, zone 1h

— Page4of8

(A19) Zone 1b after removing from orcpharynx, trisected (yellow ink not a
surgical margin) ‘
(A20—A23) Remaining tissue, zone 1b

(A24) Submandibular gland

(A25—A30) Anterior zone 2, anterior to posterior

Zone 3:

(A31) One lymph node, bisected
(A32) One lymph node, bisected
(A33) One lymph node, bisected
(A34) One lymph node, bisected
(ABS-A50) Remaining tissue

Received fresh for frozen section diagnosis, labeled -
are five specimens.

B) Designated "true midline tongue margin,“ is a portion of red-brown tissue
measuring 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen

section diagnosis and resubmitted for permanent section diagnosis in cassette
(FSBl).

C) Designated "left true vallecula margin," is a portion of red—brown soft tissue
measuring 1.9 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen

section diagnosis and resubmitted for permanent section diagnosis in cassette
(FSCl).

D) Designated “true midline pharyngeal margin," is a portion of red-brown soft
tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for
frozen section diagnosis and resubmitted for permanent section diagnosis in
cassette (FSDl).

E) Designated "left true superior tonsil margin," is a portion of pink-white soft
tissue measuring 2.2 x l x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely for frozen

section diagnosis and resubmitted for permanent section diagnosis in cassette
(FSEl) .

F) Designated "medial posterior mobile tongue," is a portion of pink-white soft
muscular tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted entirely

for frozen section diagnosis and resubmitted for permanent section diagnosis in
cassette (FSFl).

In formalin, labeled - are four specimens.

G) Designated "right neck dissection,“ is a 12.5 x 7.0 x 3.0 cm neck dissection,
which is oriented per the specimen container as follows: single stitch a zone 1,
double long stitch = zone 2b, double short stitch = zone 4.

(G1) Lymph node, bisected, zone 1

(62) Lymph node, bisected, zone 1

(GB) Four candidate lymph nodes, zone 1

(G4) Three candidate lymph nodes, zone 1

(GS-G6) Representative sections of submandibular gland, zone 1
(G7—G10) Remaining tissue, zone 1

(Gil—612) Two candidate lymph nodes, bisected; a larger and a smaller, zone 2a
(G13) Five candidate lymph nodes, zone 2a

(G14—G18) Residual tissue, zone 2a

(G19) One lymph node, bisected, zone 2b

(G20) Three candidate lymph nodes, zone 2b

_

_ Pageﬁofa

(GZl—G24) Remaining tissue, zone 2b

(G25) One lymph node bisected and inked black, and two candidate lymph nodes,
~ zone 3

(626) Remaining tissue, zone 3

(G27) Four candidate lymph nodes, zone 4

(G28) Remaining tissues, zone 4

H) Designated "teeth #22, 24 and 25," are three teeth, ranging from 1.8 x 0.6 x
0.6 cm to 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The smallest tooth is fractured longitudinally
with a pink, firm material in the core of the tooth. The specimen is submitted
in its entirety, after decalcification, as follows:

(H1) Previously fractured tooth
(Hz-H3) Remaining two teeth

I) Designated "additional left posterior neck dissection, zones 2 and 3,“ is a
0.8 x 6.5 x 1.5 cm neck dissection. It is oriented per the specimen container as
follows: single stitch a zone 2b, double stitch = zone 3. The specimen is
submitted in its entirety as follows:

(11-12) Lymph node, bisected, zone 2b

(13-14) Remaining tissue, zone 2b

(15—16) Two lymph nodes bisected, the larger and a smaller, zone 2b

(17-18) One lymph node bisected, zone 2b

(19) Four candidate lymph nodes, zone 2b

(110) Five candidate lymph nodes, zone 2b

(111-112) Remaining tissues, zone 2b

(113) Three lymph nodes, the largest is bisected, zone 3

(114) Three lymph nodes, the largest is bisected, zone 3

(115-116) Remaining tissues, zone 3

J) Designated "additional right anterior tongue margin," is a 3.5 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm
tongue tissue. No orientation is provided. The specimen is submitted in its
entirety in cassettes (Ji-Jz).

INTRAOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS

F531: Negative for malignancy
FSCl: Negative for malignancy
FSDl: Negative for malignancy
FSEl: Negative for malignancy
FSFl: Negative for malignancy

Intra-Operative Diagnosis Reviewed and Interpreted By:

'I certify that (1) all services on this form were rendered and are hereby

approved for billing, (2) all specimens/slides have been examined / reviewed, (3)

the medical record has been documented for these services, and (4) the rendering

of the services and the documentation in the medical record are in accordance """"
with ' guidelines.

Final Diagnosis Reviewed and Interpreted by:

_ Pageﬁofs

ELECTRONICALLY SIGNED

Pathologist Pathology Resident

Date:

Some tests used in this case were developed in and their performance
characteristics determined by the

The procedures and reagents have been validated
by evaluation of both negative and positive controls. This testing has not been
cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. Test results are
used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for
research. The is accredited by the
College of American Pathologists and is certified under the Clinical Laboratory

Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—Ba) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

"I certify that (1) all services on this form were rendered and are hereby
approved for billing, (2) all specimens/slides have been examined / reviewed, (3)
the medical record has been documented for these services, and (4) the rendering

of the services and the documentation in the medical record are in accordance
with guidelines.“

Lab and Collection
Surgical Pathology Bequest on
Result History
SURGICAL EATHOLOQX BEQUEST on
Specimen Information
\ Specimen # Collection Date and Time Received Date and Time

 

Resulting Agency

Sur ical Patholo yRequest '

Ordering Physician Provider Not In System
Result Information

Status Provider Status
Final result 7 Ordered

 

 

Surgery Report
Lab Printout

Open Hard ngy Result Ragga ‘ ur ical Patholo Re uest
Order Report

View Qrdgr Information

 

_ Dept
. Phone:

. Encounter

M RN I - #:

Page 7 of 8

Description: Male 008‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department: ‘
Lab Collection Information Lab "35
Collection Date and Time Specimen #
Surgical Pathology Request Date and
Authorizing: System, Provider Time:
Lab Not In Electronically
Department: . Signed By:
Diagnoses
Oral-mouth cancer 145.9
Smoking hx V15.82
Alcohol abuse 305.00
Squamous cell carcinoma of lateral tongue 141.2
Squamous cell cancer of retromolar trigone 145.6
Order Information
Order Date/Time Release Date/Time Start nntefl'lmn End Date/Time
Comments
Ordered by an unspeciﬁed provider
Order Details
Frequency Duration Priority Order Class
ONCE l occurrence Routine Normal
Provider Information
Ordering User Ordering Provider Authorizing Provider
System, Provider Not In System, Provider Not In
Altendlno Provider(s) Admitting Provider
Collection Information

 

Collection Data Collection Time Resultinu Aoency

Order Report
View Order Information

 

,— Page 8 of s

r d

There are no specimens.
Reprint Requisitions

Surgical Pathology Rogues; J, ,

