- . .
- 'TCGA-CS—539li

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

FiNAL DIAGNOSIS:

1. Right parietal iobe brain tumor: oligodendroglioma, see comment,
see microscopic description.

2. Specimen not received:

3.. Right parietal lobe brain tumor: oligodendroglioma, see comment,
see microscopic description.

Comment: /
While the tumor is best classifed as Oligodendrogli ma, 0 grade©

the identification of multiple mitotic figures on slide 3 and a MIB-i
(Ki67) proliferation index of greater than 10% suggests that this tumor
may have a growth potential greater than that of a grade II
ongodengroglioma. Clinical correlation recommended.

Report Electronically Signed

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
of record.

Microscopic Description:

The tumor is a moderately cellular oligodendrogiioma composed of cells
with ovoid to round nuclei infiltrating gray and white matter.
Prominent perineuronal satellitosis is present. Many tumor cells have
perinuclear halos (slide 1B). Scattered mitotic figures are identified
(slide 3A). Neither necrosis nor microvascular are identified. The
proliferation index, as determined by nuclear staining with the
immunohistochemical Ki67 (MlB-l) is focally greater than 10% (slide:
3A). Based on histologic appearance, this tumor is best classified as
oiinodendroglioma, WHO grade II. The elevated proliferation index and
n‘. jtic figures suggest however that this tumor may have a growth

 

 

r "entiai greater than a grade il oligodendroglioma. Clinical
Correlation recommended.

Frozen Section Diagnosis:
1. Right parietal lobe brain tumor: Infiltrating glial neoplasm in
grey and white matter.

Clinical History and Diagnosis:

Right parietal lobe brain tumor. —

Source of Specimen:

1: Right parietal lobe brain tumor
2: Specimen not received

3: Right parietal lobe brain tumor

Gross Description:

1. Right parietal lobe brain tumor: Received fresh for frozen section

are multipie pieces of soft white tissue measuring 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm

in aggregate. Touch preps are made. 50% of the specimen is submitted
for frozen section diagnosis. The remaining specimen is entireiy
submitted.

2. Specimen not received:

3. Right parietal lobe brain tumor: Received in formalin is a single
fragment of tan white soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The
specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in one cassette.

Histology Laboratory
H&E

Part 3: Right parietal lobe brain tumor
RFCUT
U. .TAINED

 

IMMUNOPATHOLOGY REPORT

EVALUATION:

Ki67 (mib-l ): positive staining in greater than 10% of tumor cell
nuclei in a portion of the tumor (slide 3a) .

grap: positive staining in scattered tumor cells and in reactive
astrocytes.

Comment: _
See corresponding surgical pathology report _

This diagnostic report has been personally interpreted by the signatory
o. .ecord.

 

