UUID: 53AB2BEC- 71(0- AAFO- 93DA- FE72CD7FE19eBd
TCGA- ES- -A-2HS 01A-P

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
II IIIIII IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHHmlllmlﬂllm

I II III I
IIIIIIIIIII I IIlI I II II |||I|IIIIII l IIII III II IIIIIIIIIIIII III

Primary tumor site Discrepancy

Diagnosi; _ own-1y ‘ ll
HII-M I

Pun." II

can is

Raviewer

___. - Medical Record ii»

 

I Age: Sex: M
Service Date:

Accession #:'

 

 

Patient's location: v , Report type: ISurgical

Date Obtained: Date Received:
Referring Physician/Surgeon(s) ‘ Service: Transplant Surgery

 

 

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED] PROCEDURES ORDERED:

A. Gallbladder( B. Left lateral segmentl
8 Frozen Section Charge

 

CLINICAL HISTORY: year old white male with history of prostate cancer status post radiotherapy, now with liver
mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimen(s) in the Department of Pathology, labeled with the patient's
name and hospital #2

A, Gallbladder
8. Left lateral segment

A. The specimen is received fresh and consists of an 8.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm gallbladder with a 2.0 cm segment of cystic
duct. The duct is 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosa is glistening and focally hyperemic. The lumen contains dark
green viscous material and there are no stones in the lumen or in the container. The ,m- Icosa is velvety and dark
green A representative section has been submitted In cassette A1. (

B. The specimen is received fresh labeled “left lateral segment" and consists of a left lope u. "Ii-er which is 18 5 x 13. 2 x
0.3 cm and weighs 498.0 grams. Capsular surfaces are mostly smooth with a few adhesions. Cut surfaces reveal a
singular well circumscribed homogeneous beige tumor nodule measuring 3.7 x 2.0 cm. The tumor is 0.1 cm from
the inked/cauterized margin and abuts a distal branch of portal vein. The liver parenchyma is uniformly tan, without
nodularitv. A portion of tumor is sent for frozen section. Frozen section diagnosis is "hepatocellular carcinoma" as

per" ‘ - . » - ' apresentative sections are submitted as follows:
FSBI mm lateral segment
82-86 Hepatic tumor . / CA - a- 3

87—88 Normal liver .
dbl/Comm MW NM

DIAGNOSIS:

, 3 r7 4/ 3
A. Gallbladder: . '
- Histologically normal gallbladder 5” a ‘ W t 94- 0 A»
8. Left lateral segment: ”NJ/l,
— Hepatocellularcarcinqma, well to moderately differentiated

Size 3.7 cm
Negative for signiﬁcant necrosis
Negative for vascular space invasion
Tumor abuts surgical margin and branch of portal vein
AJCC Cancer Stage pTl NXMX (6m ed. 2002)
— Background liver with nonspeciﬁc reactive changes, negative for signiﬁcant ﬁbrosis

"I or my qualiﬁed designee. have supervised the resident In the gross examination and description and I have personally reviewed the gross
description and specimen preparations referenced herein and have personally issued this report. "

ResldenUProsector/Pathologist:

lCDQ Codes: 155.0
Diagnostic/Retrieval Codes:

Nola: Test systems have been developed
approved by the US. Food and Drug Admi
not be regarded as lnvestigalional or for re
perform high complexity clipical laboratory

and their performance characteristics determined by:
nistratlon. The FDA has determined that such clearance lS not necessary.

search. This laboratory is certiﬁ
lasting.

ed under the Clinical Laboratory lmproverne

20f2

 

 

Patient Nauru:
Medical Record *4:
Accession #: 1
‘ Page: 2

Some tests have not been cleared or
mass tests are used Ior clinical purposes and should
nt Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-SB) as qualiﬁed to

3%:

