UUID:156586904425-46A2-A818-BBC2E145790eFd ”I A
TCGA- NB- A4PL- 21A PR i 006 :5

lIIIIII|I||I|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIItad

III IIIII
III IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Maj); nah, i» ”11,! [max ﬁlm 64/

 

||||||||||||||||||IIIIIIIIIIII|III|I|||||I|II|IIII|I||||| 71mm. gc;5& / 3
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT 251%; 9,40%): (dug
Case Number: 65 4 I 3

42 //¢/ //:2 k?
Diagnosis:

A: Lymph node, left pelvic sentinel, biopsy:

— One lymph node negative for malignancy on multiple serial and

three H & E stained level sections (O/l).

B: Lymph node, right periaortic, regional dissection:
- Five lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/5).

C: Lymph node, left periaortic, regional dissection:
— Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/2).

D. Uterus, cervix and bilateral adnexa, hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo— oophorectomy:
Location of tumor: Endometrium.

Histologic type: Carcinosarcoma (malignant mullerian mixed
tumor).

 

Histologic grade (FIGO): Grade 3.

Extent of invasion: Confined to the endometrium/polypoid lesion.
Myometrial invasion: Absent.

Serosal involvement: Absent.

Cervical involvement: Absent.

Adnexal involvement: Absent.

Other sites: Pelvic washing is negative

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: Widely negative.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Absent.

Regional lymph nodes (See parts A-C,E,F):

-7 Total number involved: 0
:§ Total number examined: 24

Other pathologic findings:

Cervix: Nabothian cysts.

Endometrium: Intraepithelial carcinoma in a background of
atrophy.

Myometrium: Adenomyosis.

Ovaries: Age related changes bilaterally.

Fallopian tubes: Unremarkable bilaterally.

Tumor estrogen and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry
results: Pending, addendum to follow.

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pTla pNO pMX

F180 (2008 classification) Stage grouping: IA

NOTE: These stages are based on information available at the
time of this report, and are subject to change pending
additional information and clinical review.

E: Lymph node, right pelvic, regional dissection:
Eleven lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/11).

”fl

Lymph node, left pelvic, regional dissection:
Five lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/5).

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section diagnosis was requested by Dr. on
from

FSAl: Sentinel lymph node, pelvic, removal
— One lymph node, no tumor seen (O/l).

Drs.
Frozen Section Pathologistz, MD

Clinical History:
—year-old female with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:
Received are six appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "left pelvic sentinel lymph
node." It holds a 1.7 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm firm tan lymph node
candidate. This is cross sectioned along the long axis and

 

 

 

entirely submitted in block FSAl. Fatty tissue remains.

Container B is additionally labeled "right peri-aortic lymph
nodes." It holds a 3.5 x 2.0 x 0.9 cm aggregate of bright yellow
lobulated fat containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging
in size from 0.9 to 2.3 cm in largest dimension.

Block Summary:

Bl — one lymph node candidate, bisected

B2,B3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected, each block
B4 — one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

B5 — adipose tissue,

Container C is additionally labeled "left peri—aortic lymph
node." It holds a 2.5 x 0.9 x 1.6 cm aggregate of yellow
lobulated fat containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging
in size from 0.4 to 1.1 cm in largest diameter.

Block summary:

C1 — one lymph node candidate, bisected
C2 — multiple lymph node candidates

C3 — adipose tissue,

Container D:

Adnexa: present and attached

Weight: 84.9 grams

Shape: pear shaped

Dimensions:

height: 8.5 cm

anterior to posterior width: 3.5 cm

breadth at fundus: 6.0 cm

Serosa: smooth and glistening with occasional adhesions and
small fat deposits

Cervix: 1.7 x 1.5 cm with a patent cervical os measuring 0.4 cm
in diameter

length of endocervical canal: 2.4 cm

ectocervix: smooth and tan with blue dye visible on the
ectocervical surface

endocervix: tan and trabeculated

Endomyometrium:

length of endometrial cavity: 3.2 cm

width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 1.9 cm

tumor findings:

dimensions: 1.6 x 0.9 cm

appearance: dark brown, hemorrhagic and exophytic protruding
into the uterus to a height of 0.6 cm

location and extent: The lesion is localized to the posterior
corpus wall.

myometrial invasion: no apparent invasion

thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.2 cm
other findings or comments: none

Adnexa:

Right ovary:

dimensions: 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm

external surface: yellow/tan and smooth

cut surface: tan and firm

Right fallopian tube:

dimensions: 3.5 cm long, 0.4 cm in diameter

other findings: The surface is light tan and smooth and the
lumen is patent.

Left ovary:

dimensions: 1.2 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm

external surface: yellow/tan and smooth

cut surface: tan and firm

Left fallopian tube:

dimensions: 3.9 cm long, 0.5 cm in diameter

other findings: The surface is light tan and smooth and the
lumen is patent.

Lymph nodes: See Specimens A—C and E,F

Other comments: none

Digital photograph taken: not taken

Tissue submitted for special investigations:

Block Summary:

D1 - anterior cervix

D2 - posterior cervix

D3—D6 — endometrial lesion

D7 - anterior endomyometrium

D8 — posterior endomyometrium

D9 — right fallopian tube and ovary
D10 — left fallopian tube and ovary

Container E is additionally labeled "right pelvic lymph node."
It holds a 3.9 x 2.1 x 1.6 cm aggregate of bright yellow
lobulated fat containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging
in size from 0.6 to 2.1 cm in largest dimension.

Block summary:

 

 

 

El — multiple lymph node candidates
E2 — one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned
E3—E6 — adipose tissue,

Container F is additionally labeled "left pelvic lymph node." It
holds a 4.2 x 3.6 x 2.0 cm aggregate of bright yellow lobulated
fat containing multiple lymph node candidates ranging from 0.3
to 2.8 cm in largest dimension.

Block summary:

F1,F2 — multiple lymph node candidates

F3 - one lymph node candidate, bisected, and one lymph node
candidate, inked black and not bisected

F4,F5 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

F6,F7 - adipose tissue,

Grossing Pathologist:

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
The following addendum is issued to report the results of
estrogen and progesterone receptor immunohistochemical studies.

Results:

Estrogen receptor ( , clone SP1): Weakly positive (1+,
5%).

Progesterone receptor . clone 1E2): Weakly positive (1—
2+, 5%).

Site: Endometrium

Performed on block: 05

Fixation: 10% neutral buffered formalin
Fixation time: 6—48 hours

Reference range:

Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor: <1%=NEGATIVE, 1—10%
WEAK POSITIVE, >10% POSITIVE

Addendum Comment

Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may
be classified as analyte specific reagents (ASR) or research use
only (RUO) reagents. These were developed and have performance
characteristics determined by . These reagents have not

been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is
not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA—88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

