 

.TCGA-BP-4961

 

  
 

Accession #:
Date of Procedure:

Date of Receipt:
Date oi Report:
Account #:
Billing Type:

Additionai Copy to:

 

Clinical Diagnosis & History:
H10 epigastrto pain with inoidentai renal mass discovered.

Specimens Submitted: .
1: SP: Kidney. right, partial neplireoiomy

2: SP: Kidney, right, deep margin :#2, excreton
3: SP: Kidney. right. deep margin ifi3.excision
4: SP: Kidney, right, deep margin {#4, excision

   
 

 

 

DIAGNOSIS:
1. SP: Kidney, right, partial nephrectomy-
Tumor Type:
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type
The tumor shows focal ossiﬁcation.

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuclear grade llilV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3 cm.

Local Invasion (for renal cortical types):
Noi identiﬁed

Renal Vein invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney: .
Unremarkable 3

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal oeli oarcinomaloncooytoma:
pTi Tumor <= "(.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

........................................................

2. SP: Kidney, right, deep margin #2, excision-
Benlgn blood vessel.

 

Page 1 of 3

 

 

3. SP: Kidney, right. deep margin #3,exoision -
Benign renal paronchyme.

4. SP: Kidney, right, deep margin #4, excision-
Benlgn renal parenohyma.

tATTEST TiriAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSFS is BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/0R OTHER MATERIAL). AND THAT i HAVE

 

 

 

Gross Descrigtion:

REVEEWED AND APPROVES THIS REPORT.

1) The specimen is received for frozen section. labeled "Right renal tumor’. it consists of a single segment of
wedge-shaped renal tissue that measures 5 x 4 x 4 cm in greatest dimension. The surgical margin of the specimen is inked black.
A stitch is present on the surgical margin and this area is submitted for frozen diagnosis. The opposite aspect of the specimen
reveals a large amount of fatty tissue that is grossly unremarkable. This aspect of tissue is inked blue. The tissue is
cross—sectioned. revealing a bright yellow and somewhat hemorrhagic tumor lesion that measures 3.0 x 2.5 x 3.0 cm. The tumor
is approximately 0.1 cm from the deep surgical margin. A sample of tumor is submitted to TPS. Grossiy, the tumor is confined to
the kidney. The specimen is representativeiy submitted.

2) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Deep margin #2 right kidney“. it consists of a single small fragment of ten
tissue that measures 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The tissue is entirely submitted.

Summary of Sections:
'FUMR ~ Tumor sections
T - Tumor with fat

Summary of sections:
U - undesignated

3) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Deep margin #3 right kidney". it consists of two fragments of ten small
tissue that measures in aggregatedﬁ x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. The tissue is entirely submitted.

4) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "Deep margin #4 right kidney". it consists oi a single fragment of ten ﬁrm
tissue that measures 1.0 x 0.1 x 0.2 cm. The tissue is entirely submitted.

Sum mery of sections:
U - undesignaied

Summary of sections:
U — undesignaied

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Kidney, right, partial nephrectomy-

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 fat 2
l isc ‘ 1
6 tumr 6

 

 

Page 2 cl 3

 

Part 2: SP: Kidney, right, deep margin #2, excision-

Bleck Sect. Site P05
1 u % 1

Part 3: SP: Kidney, right, deep margin #3.8Xci$i0l-

Block Sect. Site : P05
1 u 1

Part 4: SP: Kidney, right, deep: margin #4. excision-

Bi0ck Sect. Site P08
1 u 1

Intraoperative Consultation:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the
tissue sample examine ‘at the time of the intraOperalive
consultation.

1) FROZEN sscrron DiAGNOSiS: srncneo MARGIN semen. FAVOR CLEAR CELL CARCINOMA. -

PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: Same

 

Page 3 of 3 END OF REPORT

 

