SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT

    
    

 

ms- 0 - 3
WW, WMEX. [005
_ 2350/3
Case Number: 5505 1 L fw as“
J/a/n
/”

Ola nosis Dimepm

Primary Tumor sire Ullaep."

HIPMDiiac
DiagnOSIs: Sluﬁ'ttniwm "
Uterus and cervix, hysterectomy: L":
Location of tumor: primary endometrial adenocarcinoma
Histologic type: endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous differentiation

M-
Histologic grade (FIGO): overall FIGO grade 1 (architectural grade 1, nuclear grade 1)
Extent of invasion: see below
uum:gzzagaez-3332;453:315;-222u47c4oaa1d t d
M t'l' ':l hlf " " ““e
OWE": '"ﬁs'ﬁnh.":er f1 9 P t, m lll||llllllllllllllllllllllll|llllll|||l|lllll||llllllllllllllllIll
apt - cm a t 'C "e“- ' cm ”can: ° |lll|||II|II|||l||llllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllI

Serosal involvement: not identified

Lower uterine segment involvement: not identiﬁed
Cervical involvement: not identiﬁed

Adnexal involvement (see below): not identified

Other sites: not applicable

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: negative widely free
Lymphovascular Space Invasion: focally present

Regional lymph nodes: not submitted

Other Pathologic findings: leiomyomas

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor immunohistochemistry results: pending on block A8, addendum to
follow

AJCC Pathologic stage: pTla pNx

FIGO (2008 classification) Stage grouping: lA

These stages are based on information available at the time of this report, and are subject to change pending additional
information and clinical review

Ovary, right, oophorectomy:
- No tumor identified.
- Benign simple cyst.

Ovary, left, oophorectomy:
- No tumor identified.
- Benign simple cyst.

Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy:
- No tumor identified.
- Chronic salpingitis and hydrosalpinx.

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy:
- No tumor identified.
- Hydrosalpinx.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Frozen section was requested by Dr

FSA1: Uterus, hysterectomy

- Well to moderately differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma with squamous differentiation
- No myometrial invasion identified

- Extensive lymphovascular invasion

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
well differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade 1 on biopsy.

Gross Description:
Received is one appropriately labeled container.

Adnexa: The right adnexa is received detached from the specimen and the left is received attached to the specimen.
Weight: 77.5 grams

Shape2pearshaped

Dimensions:

height: 6.6 cm

anterior to posterior width: 2.3 cm

breadth at fundus: 4.3 cm

o

. ' Serosa: red/tan, smooth and glistening
Cervix:
length of endocervical canal: 1.6 cm
ectocervix: white/pink, smooth and glistening
endocervix: trabecular, red/tan and glistening
Endomyometrium:
length of endometrial cavity: 3.2 cm
width of endometrial cavity at fundus: 2.1 cm
tumor findings:
dimensions: 3.2 x 2.8 x 0.8 cm
appearance: friable, fleshy and exophytic
location and extent: located predominantly on the posterior corpus
focally extending into the fundus
myometrial invasion: no apparent invasion
thickness of myometrial wall at deepest gross invasion: 1.9 cm
other ﬁndings or comments: The myometrium contains two ﬁrm intramural, circumscribed nodules measuring up to 1.5
cm in greatest dimension.
Adnexa:
Right ovary:
dimensions: 2.8 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm
external surface: smooth, red/tan
cut surface: grossly unremarkable with a peripheral 1.8 cm thin walled clear fluid-filled cyst
Right fallopian tube:
dimensions: 8 cm in length x 1.7 cm in diameter
other findings: The fallopian tube lumen is markedly distended and contains thick yellow mucoid material and a wall
thickness of up to 0.8 cm.
Left ovary:
dimensions: 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm
external surface: red/tan, smooth and glistening
cut surface: grossly unremarkable with a peripheral thin walled clear
fluid-filled 1.8 cm cyst
Left fallopian tube:
dimensions: 6.5 cm in length and ranges in diameter from 0.5 to 1.2 cm
other findings: the fallopian tube is tortuous and adhesed upon the surface of the ovary

Lymph nodes: submitted separately

Other comments: Sectioning reveals a tortuous but patent lumen containing thick yellow material. The wall is thickened
to 0.5 cm.

Digital photograph taken: no
Tissue submitted for special investigations: Tumor is given to Tissue Procurement

Block Summary:
A1 - anterior cervix

A2 ~ anterior lower uterine segment
A3 - anterior mid corpus

A4 - anterior upper corpus/fundus
A5 - posterior cervix

A6 — posterior lower uterine segment
A7 - posterior mid corpus

A8 - posterior upper corpus/fundus
A9 - right ovary

A10—A11 - right fallopian tube

A12 - left ovary

A13-A14 — left fallopian tube

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed
as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

. ; These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval Is not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CL|A~88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

Signature
Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have
rendered the above diagnosis(es).

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
The endometrial adenocarcinoma is estrogen receptor negative (1+, <1%) and progesterone receptor negative (0%) by
immunohistochemistry. Controls stained appropriately.

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following applies: Appropriate internal and/or external positive and
negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classiﬁed
as analyte specific reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the

_- These reagents have not been cleared or
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval' IS not
necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLlA-88) as qualiﬁed to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

