 

Ciinical Dla nosis & Histo :
dim ieit renal mess.

Sgecimens Submitted:
1: Kidney. left, pertiei nephrectomy'.

2: Kidney, ieft, cyst excision:

 

DIAGNOSIS:

1.

Kidney, ieft, partiai nephrectomyu
Tumor Type: '
Renal cell carcinoma - Conventional (clear cell) type

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:
Nuciear grade IUIV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 2.9 cm.

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Not Identiﬁed

Renal Vein Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Nen~Neoplestlc Kidney:
Unremerkeble

Adrenai Giend:
Not Identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identified

Staging for rensi ceii carcinomalonoocytoms:
th Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

a-.." ...................................................

2. Kidney, ieit, cyst excisionz:

Portion of kidney with benign cortical cyst.

 

Page 1 of 2

 

Gross Descrlgtion:

1) The specimen is received trash for frozen section. labeled “Left Kidney Tumor (stitch merits deep margin)". it consists of
a portion of kidney parenchyma measuring 5.5 x 4.0 x 2.8 cm. The attached suture indicates surgical margin of resection which is
inked blue. Sectioning reveals a well-circumscribed, yellow—orange tumor measuring 2.9 x 1.6 x 1.5 cm. The tumor appears to
be 0.2 cm from the inked surgical margin of resection grossly. Tumor appears to be well encapsulated and not violate the renal
capsule. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

   

Summary of Sections:

FSC - frozen section control
TM - tumor

RS - resi of the specimen

2). The specimen is received in formalin labeled, "Portion of cyst wall left kidney”. and consists of e 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.1 cm piece of
pink-tan soft tissue which is entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U~undesignated

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: Kidney, left, partial nephrectomy:

Block Sect. Site P09
1 fee 1
4 re 4
8 im 8

Part 2: Kidney, left, cyst excision:

Block Sect. Site P03
1 u 1

Intro operative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the tissue sample examined at the time of the iniraoperailve
constritaiion.

‘

1) FROZEN SECTION DiAGNOSlS: CONVENTlONAL (CLEAR CELL) RENAL CELL CARCINOMA. MARGEN FREE OF
TUMOR.
PERMANE iAGNOSIS: SAME

 

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

