rape .3
C) . . . » ‘
Nos Mg sizzle
uum:Tagéinﬁ-Zlés‘magﬁ-nga- AF52F4C£AeB4C 3411 Q W M350 9
ll llIllIglllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

7 /
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIl IIIIIIIIIIIIII 953 I 25 ’3

Final Surgical Pathology Report

Procedure:
Diagnosis
A. Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy: Two negative lymph
nodes (0/2).

E. Breast, left, excisional biopsy: Invasive ductal carcinoma, grade
3, size 3.0 cm in greatest dimension, close to the medial and
inferior margins.

Microscopic Description:
Invasive carcinoma:
Histologic type: Ductal
Histologic grade: 3
Overall grade: 9/9
Architectural score: 3
Nuclear score: 3
Mitotic score: 3
Greatest dimension (pT2): Size 3.0 cm in greatest dimension
Specimen margins: Carcinoma is well—demarcated, and forms a
discrete mass lesion that is less than 1 mm from the medial
margin and 0.5 mm from the inferior margin.
Vessel invasion: Not identified

Ductal carcinoma in situ: Not identified.

Comment: Prior biopsy site identified.

Distant metastasis (pM): Unknown

Lymph nodes: Two negative sentinel lymph nodes, 0/2.
Prognostic markers: See previous core biopsy

Specimen
A. Left axillary sentinel node
B. Left breast biopsy

Clinical Information
Left breast cancer, yo BF with grade 3 IDC

Gross Description

A Received unfixed, labeled left axillary sentinel node, are two
lymph nodes, the larger of which is 1.4 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm, bisected
and submitted in blocks 1— 2, and an additional node, 1.0 x 0.5 x
0.5 cm, bisected and submitted in block 3.

B. Received unfixed in a z . container, labeled left breast, is
a portion of fibrofatty tissue that is oriented and 6.0 cm anterior
to posterior, 4.5 cm medial to lateral, and 2. 3 cm superior to
inferior. Margins are inked: inferior blue, superior black,
medial yellow, lateral green. The specimen is serially sectioned
from anterior to posterior. There is a 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.9 cm tumor
present, adjacent to the medial and inferior margins
Representative sections, including the anterior and posterior shave
margins, sequentially submitted in 8 blocks.

Il1gnDISDiSI‘reap_‘.r-I

M V s I No '
gag/at _.~j-.7—~ J

 

