   

TCGA — B3 — 3926

 

SPECIMEN

A. Left renal mass

B. Deep margin left renal
C. Perinephric fat

D. Left kidney

CLINICAL NOTES
CLINICAL HISTORY: Renal mass

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS
A. Diagnosis deferred to permanent sections.—
B. Tumor present on one aspect of specimen on two of three blocks

on
frozen section- —

GROSS DESCRIPTION
A. Received fresh for frozen section and for tissue
procurement labeled "left renal mass" is a disrupted
specimen, with a soft tan—pink fragment of tumor, 3.2 x 3 x 2 cm.
This is focally attached to a disrupted thin rim of circular
maroon—brown renal tissue, 5 cm in length X 0.6 x 0.5 cm. There is
also attached fatty tissue, 6 x 1.5 x 1 cm in aggregate. The
margins
are indeterminate due to specimen disruption. A portion of tumor
and of normal are submitted for tissue procurement. One block is
submitted for frozen section diagnosis. Six additonal blocks,
including all of the tumor, are submitted for permanent sections.
B. Received fresh for frozen section, labeled "deep
margin
left renal‘I is a circular cross section of maroon—brown
kidney tissue, 4 X 3 cm, and 0.5 cm thick. On one aspect there is
some pale tissue, which may represent tumor. The entire specimen
is

-«;ubmitted in three blocks for frozen section diagnosis. -

C. Received fresh labeled “perinephric fat” is a 6.6 x 6.3
X 2.6 cm. aggregate of soft lobulated yellow adipose
tissue. The cut surfaces are homogenous, glistening, and yellow.

GROSS DESCRIPTION
RS—3.
D. Received fresh labeled "left kidney" is a 289 gram,
10.5
x 6.5 x 3.5 cm, kidney, with attached probe patent 7.5 cm.
long segment of ureter averaging 0.3 cm. in diameter. A scant
amount of predominantly torn golden yellow perirenal adipose tissue
is present. A wedge—shaped 4.8 x 2.5 cm. defect is present along

 

the lateral/central aspect of the specimen. Multiple sutures and
packing gauze are present. The cauterized margin of the defect is
inked orange for identification purposes. A scant amount of
presumptive residual lesion measuring 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. is
presumptively identified within the central surgical defect. The
renal pelvis is smooth, glistening, and tan—white. The uninvolved
parenchyma is uniform and tan, with a welludefined corticomedullary
junction, with a maximal cortical thickness of 1.2 cm. No

additional
abnormality is identified grossly. No adrenal tissue is present.
RSulO, following fixaton.

BLOCK SUMMARY: D1 w vascular and ureteral margins; D2—D5 —
resection

site, with possible residual lesion; D6—D8 ~ addition sections from

wedie resection site; D9,D10 - random from remainder of specimen.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
For confirmation in the interpretation in this case, this

' onsultation to —M.D. of
the ﬂier his expert opinion. Please see the
consultation re ort from —

diagnosis for part A, the left renal mass,

is: "Papillary renal cell carcinoma, solid variant,
Furhman grade III. The tumor is organ confined and measures at

least
3.2 cm in this specimen (gross). No angiolymphatic invasion is

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

seen."
—diagnosis for part B, the deep margin, is:

"Papillary renal cell carcinoma, similar to that seen in
part A. The tumor is organ confined and measures at least 1.5 cm in
this specimen (microscopic). No angiolymphatic invasion is seen."

diagnosis for part C, the perinephric fat,

' ' " ' ibroadipose tissue."

m diagnosis for part D, the left completion

nephrectomy, is: “Renal parenchyma with cautery artifact.
No definitive tumor is identified. Surgical margins including

renal,

vascular and ureteral margins, are negative for tumor.
Non—neoplastic kidney shows mild arteriosclerosi "

In a note regarding his interpretation,_states

the following: "NOTE: Staging of this tumor is difficult
due to the marked specimen disruption. No definite extrarenal or

 

vascular invasion is identified. The distinction between Tla and le
is best determined clinically. No lymph nodes were sampled {Nx)."

The following template summarizes the findings in this case:

Histologic type: Papillary renal cell carcinoma, solid variant,
present in parts A and B. In part D there are some cauterized
areas
that raise consideration for some residual carcinoma, although
Dr.
_did not feel there was definitive tumor in this part.
Histologic grade: Fuhrman grade 3
Primary tumor (pT): See discussion above
Margins of resection: There is tumor in part B, the left deep
margin, but the surgical margins in the completion nephrectomy,
part
D, are negative for tumor.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNX
Distant metastasis (pm): pMX
Adrenal gland: Not submitted with specimen
Vascular invasion: Not identified

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
NOn-neoplastic kidney: Mild arteriosclerosis

2,3,4X2,14X2,15X2

DIAGNOSIS
A. Kidney, left, partial nephrectomy
— Papillary renal cell carcinoma, solid variant, Furhman
grade
3 (see microscopic description).

B. Kidney, left, deep margin, excision
— Papillary renal cell carcinoma present, similar to part A
(see microscopic description).

C. Perinephric adipose tissue, left, excision
— Benign fibroadipose tissue.

D. Kidney, left, completion nephrectomy
— Renal parenchyma with cautery artifact.
~ No definitive tumor is identified.
— Surgical margins including renal, vascular and ureteral
margins, are negative for tumor.
— Non—neoplastic kidney shows mild arteriosclerosis.

 

NOTE: The above dia noses are rendered er ex ert consultation from
the
microscopic description and the consultation report from Dr.

 

—~~ End Of Report ———

 

