( Page 1 of 3

I UUID: 3E7DDB45- 7A2C- 4D7B- BSAZ- ~2207949186CA
TCGA- 3X- -AAV9- 91A- PR

IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHaIIIIEd
IWMMMMMMMMMHIMMMMMWWHI

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmml

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Time Collected Time Reeelved ’7
Time Reported Time Transmitted
Order Number Ordering Provider
Statue Final Relevant information

Location

Copied To
Report Patient Name:

Demographics (for
veriﬁcation purposes) Date of Birth:
Sex: M

moo-5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ' E. m , 8/4510 .3
*****Surgical Pathology Report**“* WWW [

@4114}de I
Accession Number
Collected Date/Time

Received Date/Time @511 11/4

Pathologist

Specimen Description
A. Small bowel nodule
B. Mesenterio node

C. Gallbladder

D. Right lobe liver

Clinical Information
Mass in liver. Cholangiocarcinoma - query. Colon adenocarcinoma.

 

Diagnosis
A. Small Bowel Nodule, Biopsy:
- Focal fibroaier negative for malignancy.

B. Mesenteric Node, Biopsy:
- One lymph node, negative for malignancy.

c. Gallbladder, Cholecyetectomy:
- . Unremarkable gallbladder, negative for malignancy.

D. Right Lobe Liver, Wedge Resection:
— Moderately differentiated cholangiocarcinoma.
- 7.7 x 6.0 x 5.5 cm. .
- Less than 0.1 cm to the liver resection margin and the tumor focally
involves the liver capsule.
- Positive perineural invasion.
- Surrounding background liver parenchyma shows moderate portal
inflammation, likely due to mass effect.

Reported by:

Electronically signed by:
VErified:

Page 2 of 3

 

Gross Description

Received are specimens A to D. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled

with the patient‘s name The cassettes and ‘ identifiers are
labelled with the Surgical munwe.

A. Two small fragments of tan soft tissue, 0.7 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm in aggregate. Submitted in
toto for F5.

B. One piece of oval-shaped nodular tissue encompassing a seemingly lymph node, 1.2 cm in
greatest dimension. The node is bisected and submitted in toto in two blocks (F81 and
FS2) for F3.

C. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists
of an intact gallbladder measuring 8.2 x 3 x 2.1 cm. The serosal surface is tan, smooth
and glistening and the adventitial surface is tan, slightly hemorrhagic and roughened.
The cystic duct resection margin is identified and is patent. The cystic duct lymph node
is grossly identified and measures 1.2 cm in maximum dimension. The lumen is filled with
thick green bile (about 4 ml). The mucosal surface is green and velvety. The wall
thickness of the gallbladder is ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 cm. The specimen is serially
sectioned and representative sections are submitted in cassettes C1 and C2, cassette C1
representing the cystic duct resection margin and cystic duct lymph node bisected.
cassette C2 representing sections from neck, body and fundus.

D. The specimen is received in formalin and consists of a lobe of liver weighing 403 g
and measuring 13.7 x 11 x 5.5 cm. The resection margin is marked with blue dye. A white
solid area is identified on the serosal surface measuring 5 x 1.5 cm. The cut surface
reveals a tan solid mass measuring 7.7 x 6 x 5.5 cm. This mass also grossly extends up
the serosal surface. The remaining cut surface appears grossly unremarkable.

Sections are submitted as follows:

01 - mass in relationship with the serosal surface (white solid area on the serosal
surface).

D2—3 — mass with closest inked resection margin.

D4 — blood vessel within the mass.

D5-6 - further sections from the mass with fascicles.

D7 — grossly unremarkable parenohyma adjacent to the mass.

Please note a portion of specimen D is sent for tumor banking.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
A. Small Bowel Module:
- Benign fibrous tissue, negative for malignancy.

3. Mesenteric Node:
- Reactive lymph node, negative for malignancy.

Reported.by=

l , Page 3 of 3

Pathologist Comment

1). The moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma cells are strongly positive for CK‘7,
CK19, focally positive for CKZO and negative for TTP-l and CDXZ. This
immunohistochemical profile is consistent with cholangiocarcinoma.

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Location

HlPAA Discrepancy

Prior Malignancy History M
Dull/Synchronous Primary No - I 1'

 

