 

 

 

Accession #:
Dale of Procedure:

Data at Receipt
Date of Reparéz
Account it:
Biilmg Type‘
Additionai Copy :0;

Patient Name:

Med. Rec. #:
DOB.

Gender:

Ref. Physicmn:
Patient Address:

 

RBI. Source:

' osis 8: Histor :
1h right renal mass.

SQecimens Submitted:

1' Kidney. left. upper p011} EUIEIUF. biopsy (is) {pjm}

2: Kidneyjefl, iower poie angiomyolipoma, excisionui)
3: Lymph nudes, para—aortic, excision {a}

 

DIAGNOSIS:

17 Kidney. left, upper pole tumor, biops-

Tumnr Type.
chai celi carcinoma — Papiliary {we}

Fuhrman Nuciear Grade:
Nuclear giade HiiiV

Tumor Size
Greatest diameter is 2.2 cm.

Loan: Invasion (for renal coriicai types}:
Not ldeniiﬁed

Renal Vein lnvasiun:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:

ﬂee of armor

(tumor is present wiihin D 1 cm of inked renal parenchymat margin)
Nonwenpiasiio Kidney:

Unreniafkabie

Aﬁrenai Gland:
Not identified

Lymph Nodes:
No! iéenziﬁed

Singing for {email celi carcinomamncocyioma:
[3T1 Tumor <= 10 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

2. Kidney, Eeft. iower {1026 angiomyolipoma. excisionill):
Fragmented angiomyoliponm.

 

 

Page 1 013

 

3. Lymph nodes, para—aortic. excision (it):
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number 01 nodes examinoth

Note: -
This case was reviewed with in ct; concurs with the diagnosis.

IATTEST Tit/W Till". AEGVF Dlr’tGix’OStS i8 BASEU UPON MY PERSONAL FXﬁMiNATION OF THE Si IDES (ANOIJR OTHER MATERU‘“ 3. AND TIM? ”MVP

HEWEWB) AND APPROVED THIS REPORT -—

Special Studies:
Result Speciat Stain Comment

RECUT

Gross Description:

   

ti Tho specimen is received (rush for frozen section consultatior . a or stitch marks deep margin‘
and consists 0! a portion of brown" tan, kidney tissue measuring 3. o x 2.5x t .8 out one stitch IS identifier! designating the deep
margin. The deep margin is inked in black and the soocirnon is serially sectioned to reveal a white ten. ill deﬁned nodutur tumor
measuring 2.2 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm. Representative sections are submitted tor frozen section. The remaining specimen consists of a
petition of crown-tan kidney tiSStie, perviotrsly inked in black and serintly sectioned. Serial sections of the remaining; Specimen
reveals a protruding white»tan nodular tuanor measuring 2.2 .3 cm and tocatcd abutting the deep black margin oi tho
specimen. Representative submitted. Section was given i'rotocot.

Summary of sections:

FSC -— lrmen section control

T-rcpresentnttve sections of the tumor
R-representetive sections uninvolved paroncttyma

2} The specimen is received in formalin tabeied "Left renal tower pote anglontyoiipoma" and consists of a triabie fragment of ten
sott tissue measuring 1. 7 x 06 ex 05 cm. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U«undesi§;nated

3). The specimen ts received in iormalin, labeled "Prtra»aortic tymph nodes" and consists of four piokrrtan firm tymph nodes ranging
from 0.8 to 1 5 cm in greatest dimension. lnit identified lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN -. iyntpii nodes
Bl_N-- bisected lymph nodes

Summary of Sections:
Part1: KidneyJettmpperpole tumonbiopsytfs)tpjm}

Stock Sect. Site PCS

 

Page 2 of 3

 

 

FSC

1 'l
2 R 2
4 T 4

Part 2: Kidney.teﬂ. tower pole angiomyoiipoma. excisionttl)

Biock Sect. Site P05
3 U i - 3

Part 3: Lymph nodes. para-aortic, excision (it)

Block Sect. Site P65
2 BLN 4
1 LN 2

lnti'ttnpci'ntiw (Innstiitntinn:
Note: the diagnoses given in this section pertain oniy to the

tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

REPRESENTATNE SECTiON

l} FROZEN SECthN DiAGNOS‘CORTiCAL NEOPLASM {COMES WiTHiN {3.05 CM OE: lNKED MARGIN EN

PERMANENT DiAGNOSlS’. ME

 

Page 3 of 3

END OF REFORT

 

