DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Left upper lobe
B. Level 10 lymph node
C. Level 5 lymph node
D. Level 7 lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Chest mass.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"left upper lobe" is a 196 gram, 16 x 11 x 4.5 cm. lobe of
lung which is partially covered with a gray violaceous smooth
glistening pleura which shows diffuse black stippling. The hilum is
heavily stapled. There is a 1.5 cm. umbilication which is located
opposite of the hilum. This area is inked blue and the specimen is
sectioned in this area to show a 3.2 x 3.2 x 2.3 cm.
well-circumscribed white-tan indurated lesion. This comes within 4.5
cm. of the hilar margin. This is contiguous with the umbilication.
The remainder of the parenchyma is red—pink and spongy showing no
other discrete gross lesions identified. Possible hilar node is
grossly identified. Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted as follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — bronchial and vascular margins; 2 - possible
hilar node; 3 - representative normal; 4-8 - representative section
of tumor which inclu o 0 normal parenchyma and tumor to

umbilication. RS-8. II.

B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 10 lymph node" is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm aggregate of
pink—red irregular soft tissue fragments which are grossly
consistent with possible lymphoid tissue. The specimens are
entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1.

C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 5 lymph node" are multiple pink—gray irregular soft
friable tissue fragment which have an aggregate measurement of 3.5 x
2.5 x 0.5 cm. The e ens are entirely submitted in two
cassettes. AS-2.

D. Recei sh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"level 7 lymph node" are multiple pink, gray irregular soft
tissue fragments which have aggregate measurement of 2.0 x 2.0 x 0.4

The specimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma.
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated with extensive areas of

necrosis.
Primary tumor (pT): pT2a, the tumor measures 3.2 cm. in dimension

and extends up to the visceral pleura and very focal visceral
pleural invasion cannot be excluded.

Margins of resection: Negative.

Direct extension of tumor: The tumor is limited to the lung.
Vascular invasion: Present.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN0.

Distant metastasis (pM): pr.

5x1 and 3x3

DIAGNOSIS
A. Lung, left upper lobe, excision - Poorly differentiated squamous
cell carcinoma (see tumor characteristics in the microscopic
description).
Five hilar lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma
(0/5).
B. Lymph nodes, level 10, excision — Two lymph nodes negative for
metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
C. Lymph nodes, level 5, excision — Multiple fragments of lymph
node negative for metastatic carcinoma.
D. Lymph node, level 7, excision — Three lymph nodes negative for
metastatic carcinoma (0/3).

h>

——— End Of Report ---

