 

 

   

Surgical Pathology Report CGA"Uﬁ—5858

 

W has a 6.5 cm, irregularly nodular, ring

enhancing ‘-
mass with restricted diffusion in the left frontal lobe, with probable

involvement of the corpus callosum. There is also small clival lytic
lesion.

OPERATIVE DIAGNOSES
Left frontal brain tumor

Operation/Specimen: A: Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy
-B;'Left frontal brain tuimor, excision biopsy

PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

Aland B. Brain, frontal, biopsy and excisional biopsy:
l.‘ Glioblastoma.

21 MIB—l proliferation index: 65%.

See Microscopy Description and Comment.

COMMENT

'The-sections contain portions of a glial neoplastic proliferation that
focally '

infiltrates and extensively effaces the brain. The neoplasm has
nuclear

anaplastic features, mitotic activity, microvascular cellular

proliieration‘
and necrosis, and extensive tumor necrosis, frequently with
' pseudopalisading.

The MIB—l proliferation index is very high (65%).

The neoplasm'is a glioblastoma, WHO IV.

Results of'Molecular testing will be reported later.

 

  

 

. 'PROCEDURES/ADDENDA‘
PCR for EGFR ' utation
Date Ordered: Date Reported: _
Interpretation
NEGATIVE - No evidence of EGFRVIII mutation is detected

'Results—Comments
TEST_DESCRIPTION: Testing performed on RNA extracted from tissue block

H slide was examined and no microdissection was
needed.

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is an attractive molecular
target
in glioblastoma because it is amplified, overexpressed, and/or mutated

in up
to 40% to 50% of patients. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant
III ‘ ‘

(EGFRvIII) is an oncogenic, constitutively active mutant form of EGFR
that -is

commonly expressed in glioblastoma. Cell culture and in vivo models of
glioblastoma have demonstrated EGFRVIII as defining prognostically
distinct ‘

subgroups of glioblastomas. Additionally, the presence of EGFRVIII has
. been

shown to sensitize tumors to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors when the
tumor

suppressor protein PTEN is intact. RNA is extracted from formalin
fixed,

paraffin embedded tissue samples and reverse transcribed to cDNA. The
cDNA is

then amplified using standard PCR technique for DNA templates. PCR

_ products ~
are- detected by gel electrophoresis. The limit of detection of this

‘ assay has
been determined to be approximately 5 mutant cells in 100 normal

cells.

FDA Comment: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
performance

characteristics determined by the — laboratory as

required by CLIA -regulations. It has not been cleared or approved
for '

specific uses by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
has

determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These
results are

 

provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted
_ only in . ' .(
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

.Interpretation
-.fNEGATIVEr No“evidence of methylated MGMT promoter is detected.

:Results'Comments
Testing -performed on DNA extracted from microdissected tumor paraffin
"block

TEST DESCRIPTION: Patients with glioma containing a methylated MGMT
promoter

have been shown to benefit from therapy with alkylating agents.
Aesessment of

MGMT promoter methylation status involves bisulfite treatment of DNA
followed

by. real— time PCR amplification (MethyLight) of methylated and

, unmethylated DNA

sequences. The analytic sensitivity of this assay was determined by
serial‘ ,

dilution of methylated positive control DNA into unmethylated DNA, and
was ' .

assessed to be'l% of methylated DNA in the background of unmethylated

.DNA,‘ ' ' ~

'Factors such as the presence of >50% non—neoplastic cells in the
' sample, or
extensive tissue necrosis, may preclude the detection of methylated
MGMT
promoter sequences.

FDA COMMENT: The above data are not to be construed as the results
from a

stand alone diagnostic test. This test was developed and its
”-performance -

characteristics determined by the ”laboratory as
required by CLIA .regulations. as no can c eare or approved
for ' ‘ '

specific uses by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA

has
determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These

results are
provided for informational purposes only, and should be interpreted

b only. in ' o
the context of established procedures and/or diagnostic criteria.

 

INTRAH OPERATIVE CONSULTATION
A . '-

. Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy: Glioblastoma, 1 block, -, I
~ Frozen

_section erformed at

      
 
 

and called to the Physician of record on

Telepathology uti lized to—
'Gaoss DESCRIPTION '

.A.¢ ' - _

Left frontal brain tumor, biopsy

CONTAINER LABEL: left frontal brain tumor.

FIXATIVE: Formalin. NO. PIECES: 3. SIZE/VOL: aggregate to 1.6 x 1 X
0.2 cm.

CASSETTES: l, -
I -

‘B. ‘

'Left frontal brain tuimor, excision biopsy

CONTAINER LABEL: left frontal brain tumor

FIXATIVE: -formalin'

GENERAL: Received are pink—tan to white fragments, aggregating to 2.2
x 1.1 x

0.3 om.

SECTIONS. 1, -

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY: The GFAP demonstrates prominent
gliofibrillogenesis by '

-the neoplastic cells. A great majority of neoplastic cells over
: express the '

- (*2? p53 protein. With the MIB—l there is a proliferation index of about
65%; ‘
ICD-9(S):
237.5 237.5 191.9

 

Hiato Data

Part A: Left frontal brain tumor, biops
Stain/cnt “1 Block Or ere Comment

 

FS;H7E x 1 " ' 1

 

H/E‘x'l . 1 ‘ ‘ 1

‘.Part B: L " in tuimor, excision bio s

Takén: - eeeeevee *
Stain/ant ' Block Ordered Comment

    

EGFR VIII—slides X'l
mGFAP—DA x l

H/E x 1 ,
MGMT-slides x 1
MisienA x 1 '

PS3DO7 x 1

H H M P H H

*** End of Report ***

 

