 

ii to D nosis&Histor :
ith incidentei ieii i'anai mass.
Snecimens Submitted:
1: SP: Kidnnyﬁett. partiei nephrectomy: ‘
2: SP: Lymph nodes, para-sonic, excision:
3: SP: Cyst Wail, excision: I
4: SP: Cyst wall #2. excision: I

 

 

DiAGNOSiS:
'i. SP: KidneyJeft, partial nephrectomy: .
Tumor Typo:

Ranai oeli carcinoma — Conventional {ciear ceii) type

Fuhrman Nucieer Grade:
Nucieer grade IIIiV

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 3.0 cm.

Local invasion (for ranai corticai types):
Not identified

Renal Vein invasion:
N/A

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neopiastic Kidney:
Unremarkabie

Adrenal Gland:
NIA

Lymph Nodes:
NIA

Staging for tenet ceil carcinomefoncooytoma:
th Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension iimited to the kidney

2. SP: Lymph nodes, perenaortic, exoision: -
Lymph Nodes:
Not invotved

 

Page 1 of 3

 

Number of nodes examined?
Number of metastatic nodes:0

3. SP: Cystwsll, excision: .
Benign cortical cyst.

4. SP: Cyst wall #2, excision:
Benign cortical cyst.

 

 

 

Gross Description:

i) The Specimen is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis. labeled. "Left renal tumor (stitch marks deep margin)”. it
consists of a resecled kidney with attached perinephric tat, measuring overall 6.8 x 3.7 x 3.2 cm and weighing 33 gm. The
surgical margin is inked black. Serial sections through the kidney reveal a well-circumscribed, bright yellow. tooaiiy hemorrhagic
tumor mass measuring 3.0 x 2.6 x 2.2 cm. The mass is located 0.2 cm from the inked surgical margin. A small portion of bright
yellow tumor mass is seen to be inﬁltrating the fat on the opposite end of the our last nrargin. measuring 0.6 x 0.4 cm.
Representative sections are submitted. A portion of tumor is submitted fed

Summary of Sections:

FSC -— frozen section control

TWM n turner with margins

TWF — tumor within fat

T _ tumor

NK ~ normal kidney, representative sections

2) ”the specimen is received in formalin. labeled. "Para-aortic lymph nodes”. it consists of an irregular piece of tenwyaiiow
fatty tissue admixed with blood, measuring 3.7 x 2.4 x 0.6 cm. Severai tan—pink lymph nodes. measuring from 0.4 up to 0.8 cm in
greatest dimension are dissected. The larger lymph nodes are bisected and the entire lymph nodes are submitted.

Summary of Sections:

LN‘l BS — lymph node one bisected
LNZBS -— lymph node two bisected
LN - lymph nodes

3) The specimen is received in formalin. tabaied, “Cyst wall". it consists of an irregular piece of tan-pink soft tissue with
attached fat measuring overall 1.5 x 1.4 x 0.6 cm. The cyst wait appears hemorrhagic and the wall measures 1.6 x 0.5 cm. The
specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted.

4) The specimen is rscelvad in formalin, labeled. "Cyst wall #2". it consists of two irregular pieces at tanvpink soft tissue
measuring 1.4 and 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. The entire specimen is submitted.

Summary of Sections:
UD — undesignatad

Summary of Sections:
UD - uncle-signaled

 

Page 2 of 3

...- w. .._. w, -. .... . SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Summary of Sections:
Part 1: SP: Ktrtney,iett, partial nephrectomy: -

Block Sect. Site PBS
1 far: “i
1 nk ‘l
1 t 1
‘l twf 1
2 twm 2

Fart 2: $33: Lymph nodes, para-aortic, excision: I

Bicck Sect. Site P05
2 in 4
't int be 2
l |n2bs 2

Part 3: SP: Cyst wall, excision: .

Block Scot. Site PCs
2 ud 2

Part 4: SP: Cyst wait #2, excision: I

Bicck Sect. Site PCs
1 ud “i

Irrtrrto crativc Consultation:

 

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the
tissue sample examined at the time of the tntraoperetive
consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION DiAGNOSlS: MARGtN FREE OF TUMOR. RENAL CORTICAL NEOPLASM, FAVOR RENAL

CELL CARCiNOMA.
PERMANENT DIAG : SAME.

 

Page 3 of 3

END OF REPORT

