   

‘— GSA—A3'3335
Patient Results Report
Patient Name:

MR it: Age: - Sex: M

- PATHOLOGY RESULTS (LABORATORY) - Final

   

   

Results:

REPORT :

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

PatientName: '
Accession #

‘ Med. Res. #3
Billing Type: Inpatient
Location:
Service: Medicine
Gender: M
Billings

Physician(s):

Specimen(s) Receiveé

A: Gallbladder

B: Left kidney

C: Spleen and tail of pancreas

Pathologic Diagnosis

A, Gallbladder, choiecystectomy:

Chronic cholecystitis with cholelithiasis,

B. Kidney, left, nephrectomy:

_ - PaEe 2 Of 5

 

 

Patient Results Report
Patient Name:

- Renal cell carcinoma, clear-cell type.

~ Firm and nuclear grade 2-3.

- Tumor size: 5.] cm.

— The tumor is conﬁned to the kidney with out extrarenal

extension.

- The tumor does not involve the renal pelvis or the renal
vein.

- No lymphovascular space invasion is identiﬁed.

~ Adjacent kidney with benign-cortical cyst, 1.5 cm, and

mild interstitial chronic inﬂammation.

- Adrenal gland with no histopathologic abnormality.

C. Spleen and tail of pancreas, excision:
- Accessory spleen.

— Pancreas with no histopathologic abnormality.
PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pTl B pNX pMX.

NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure
is transmitted to this Institution' 5 Cancer Registry as required

for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage

is based solely upon the current tissue specimen, being

evaluated, and does not incorporate other relevant data.

Pathology stage is only a component to be considered in
determining the clinical stage, and should not be confused with

nor substituted for it. The exact operative procedure is

available in the surgeon' is operative report.

Primary Pathologist

 

 

Page 2 of 5

 

Patient Results Report
Patient Name: ‘ """

MR at: Age: - Sex: M

Clinical History

Cholecystitis, left kidney suspicious for neoplasm.

Innaoperative Consultation

C. Spleen and tail ofpancreas: Accessory spleen identiﬁed

(microscopic frozen section).

Gross Description

A: Received in formalin labeled "gallbladder" is an 8 x 3 cm
gallbladder which is received partially opened. The serosa is
ten and diffusely covered with adipose tissue. The cystic duct
appears patent. The mucosa is green—brown and velvety and
focally denuded near the fundus. Within the lumen of the
gallbladder is a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm aggregate ofnodular black
stones, up to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The wall is up to
0.1 cm thick. There is up to 0.4 cm of attached adipose tissue.
There are no areas suspicious for malignancy identiﬁed.
Representative sections to include the cystic duct margin are

submitted as ”Al ”.

13: Received fresh and placed in formalin labeled ”left kidney“

is an 883 gram nephrectorny specimen with a copious amount of
attached adipose tissue. After removal of the majority of the
adipose tissue, the kidney weighs 347 grains and is 15 x 6 x 6 cm.
Within the kidney is a 5.1 x 5 x 4.5 cm soil yellow-orange mass

which pushes against the capsule. However, the mass does not

 

Peer: 3 of 5

 

Patient Results Report
Patient Name: u

MR all: Age:- Sex: M

appear to extend through the capsule. The mass is near the pelvis
of the kidney and questionably involves the pelvis. The renal
vein is grossly uninvolved. The mass is variegated with ﬁlm
white, yellow-orange and red areas identiﬁed. The mass is solid
with no cystic areas identiﬁed. Focally, the mass is calciﬁed.
There is a 1.5 cm unilocular suhcapsular cyst identiﬁed within

the kidney. The remaining specimen demonstrates a distinct
cortical medullary junction separating a 0.5 cm cortex from a I].
cm medulla. There are no additional masses or lesions identiﬁed
in the remaining renal parenchyma. The urotheliurn is white~gray
and velvety with no masses or lesions identiﬁed. Within the
attached adipose tissue is a 4.5 x 3 x 0.5 cm adrenal gland

which is unremarkable upon sectioning. There are no lymph nodes
identiﬁed within the adipose tissue.

Block summary: "Bl ” - vascular and ureteral margins, on face;
"BB" — variegated areas ofthe mass to include the area of
calciﬁcation; ”BB-4’t — mass with relationship to the renal

pelvis; "BS-6‘; - mass with relationship to the capsule; ”B7” -
mass with relationship to adjacent renal parenchyina; "BS" -
subcapsular cyst; ”B9" - unremarkable renal parenchyma and

urotheiiurn; “B l 0" — representative adrenal gland.

C: Received fresh for frozen section labeled "spleen and tail

and pancreas” is a 4] gram specimen consisting Die 5 x 2 x 1.5
cm pancreas, and a 7 x 3 x 1.5 cm spleen. The resection margin
of the pancreas is inked black. Sectioning through this specimen
demonstrates red-brown splenic parenchyma with a separate
discrete 1.6 x 1.6 cm nodule. The splenic parenchyrna is
diffusely and densely adherent to the pancreatic tissue. The
pancreatic tissue is yellow—tan and lohulated. There are no ﬁrm
masses or areas suspicious for malignancy identiﬁed. A
representative section through the well-circumscribed portion of

the spleen is frozen as “PS-Cl ”, remnant submitted as "Cl “.

 

Page 4 of 5

 

 

atlent esults Report
Patient Name:

MR it: Age: - Sex: M

Additional representative sections to demonstrate the
relationship between the pancreatic parenchyma, the
wellvcircurnscrihed portion of spleen and adjacent splenie
parenchyma are submitted in "CZ-3". Representative section of
the pancreatic tissue to inciude the black inked resection margin

is submitted as "C4”.

Microscopic Description

Microscopic examination has been performed on all slides. The
pathologic diagnosis encompasses the essential microscopic

ﬁndings in this case.

Notes:

Current User:

 

Page 5 of 5

 

