   

CGA — 56 — 2767

Material examined:

Right lung, among others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Right central squamous cell carcinoma with status post pneumonia / pleuritis 05/07. Suspected occupational exposure
to asbestos.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1.) Inﬂated, ﬁxed right lung measuring 12 x 11 cm at the base and'up to 25 cm in length, central bronchus
resection plane located 1.2 cm proximal to the bifurcation of the upper lobe bronchus. Upper pleura] fissure
extensively obliterated in dorsal third, over segment 6 and adjacent sections of S2 an 8.5 x 6 cm area of parietal
pleura is extensively adhesive. At the hilus are six partly lesioned mobile grayish-black nodes between 1.1 and
2 cm in size, lower lobe bronchus and proximal sections of lower lobe segmental bronchi largely obstructed by
a central moderately solid, pale browaish, predominantly endobronchiai tumor, max. 4.8 cm in size, in the lower
lobe. Involvement of several grayish-black pigmented nodes up to 1.4 cm in size by the tumor. Central blood
vessels partly narrowed by the tumor. Tumor Spread across the pleural ﬁssure questionably into the upper lobe.
Sleeve-like spread along the lower lobe bronchus, with apparent involvement of a 2.2 cm grayish-black node
extending right up to the hilar resection surface. Intermediate and peripheral lower lobe bronchial branches are
markedly dilated and ﬁlled with thick mucus. Parenchyma in segment 6 below the pleural adhesion is an
indurated and pale brownish-yellow area of about 3.5 cm with unclear demarcation, medial parenchyma in
segment 3 and apical parenchyma in segment 1 rareﬁed with lacunae or lacuna systems of up to 0.5 cm. Pleura
over segment 1 shows whitish discoloration in several, partly striated areas of up to 5 cm, underlying
parenchyma here shows an indurated and grayish—white seam about 0.3 cm thick.

2.) Hilar LN (station 10) right: 2.6 cm lesioned node or node part, section surfaces predominantly pale brown to
whitish suggestive of a tumor.

3.) Pulmonary ligament LN (station 9) right: two lesioned grayish—black nodes with some surrounding tissue,
0.3 and 1.2 cm in size.

4.) Paraesophageal LN (station 8) right: ﬁve lesioned grayish-black nodes or node parts between 0.3 and 1.2
cm.

5.) Subcarinai LN (station 7): 2 cm node part with pale brown to whitish section surfaces suggestive of a tumor.
6.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) right: 3.5 cm lesioned node with predominantly pale brown to whitish
section surfaces suggestive of a tumor. 7

7.) Retrotracheal right: 1 cm lesioned grayish-black node with some surrounding tissue.

8.) High paratracheal LN (station 2) right: ﬁve lesioned grayish-brown nodes or node parts between 0.1 and 1
cm.

9.) Hilar LN (station (St.10) leﬁ: 2.5 cm lesioned node or node part, section surfaces pale brown to whitish
suggestive of a tumor.

10.) Low paratracheal LN (station 4) left: 1.5 cm ﬁve lesioned grayish—brown node with some surrounding
tissue.

11.) High paratracheal LN (station 2) left: 1.1 cm lesioned grayish—brown node with some surrounding tissue,
section surfaces pale brown to whitish .

Examined:

1.) Tumor with rest of parenchyma + proximal branch of B10, 2 sections of tumor with lower lobe bronchus +
involved nodes, 2 sections with pleural ﬁssure to upper lobe (upper lobe portion partly color—marked), 2
sections main bronchus at birfureation of lower lobe bronchus with node close to hilus (hilar resection surface
color~1narked), 810 intermediate, 86 at junction of S2, 81 apical, S3 medial, 82 dorsal, central bronchus
resection plane + resection margins of vessels, hilar nodes,

5.), 6.) 1 section each,

9.) 2 sections,

4.), 7.), 8.), 10.) and 11.) All material (in 10. and 11. halved in each case),

23 blocks, partly Eiastica-van Gieson, PAS, diastase-PAS, iron staining.

Micros copy -
Description of histological and cytological ﬁndings omitted for capacity reasons.

EVALUATION

Primary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Central bronchopulmonary, histologically poorly to moderately differentiated, partly keratinizing squamous cell
carcinoma of the lower lobe of the right lung with marked lymphogenic metastasization. TNM classiﬁcation
according to this picture pT2 pNS V1 R0, stage HEB. C 34.3; M 8070/3. G3.

Secondary diagnosis/diagnoses:

Largely organized pneumonic inﬁltrate with fibrous parenchymal remodeling in 86 and old thromboses of
adjacent small pulmonary arteries. Flat subpleura] parenehymal soar in apical Si with slight perifocal
emphysema. Circumscribed high—grade emphysematous stromal remodeling with formation of small cysts in
segments 1 and 3. Minimal mixed dust deposits in lung parenchyrna and accumulation of alveolar siderophages
with possible respiratory bronchiolitis. Pleural ﬁbrosis especially over the ﬁbrous remodeling area in 86 with
adhesion. Tumor—free lymph nodes with slight to moderate pigment deposits and in some cases reactive
follicular hyperplasia.

Remarkfaddendum:

On the one hand, the carcinoma is spreading to central segmental bronchi of the lower lobe by completely
infiltrating and obliterating these, while growing into the lower lobe bronchus. 0n the other hand, the tumor
extends to the pleura ﬁssure. The angioinvasion does not affect small arteries and veins in the tumor area. Most
of the 30 lymph nodes found are inﬁltrated with metastases, and they are not only detected in the tumor area
and the hilus region, while the lymph node metastasis the near the main bronchus extends to within 0.5 mm of
the mediastinal resection surface, but they are also found in the lymph node areas registered under 2.), 5.), 6.)
and 8.) - 11.).

 

