Patient ID: '
Surgical Date:

Gross Description: in Soft tissue, Neck and back, There is a Iobulated mass. They are encapsulated, with
15x8x6cm in size, solid, yellow and gray surface.

Microscopic Description: Tumor is heterogenous and composed of sheets or trabeculae or bundles. The
majority of cell tumours are spindle Tumour' Is moderate cellularity. Tumour has In marked cytological
and nuclear pleomorphism, with spindle or oval In shape. Cytoplasm are basophilic and scant and
vasculaoted containing lipid. Nuclei are hyperchromatic and very irregular with prominent nucleoli.
Mitosis are present. Tumor is invasion of skelete muscle.

ICE) .0 :3
Diagnosis Details: Pleomorphic Liposarcoma

Comments: W 1 W; 5/3

Formatted Path Reports: Tumor site: Soft tissue, upper back 6 CM a/WL M [$3.3
C a

. . . . 55f 2 64‘? é
HIstologIc type: PleomorphIc LIposarcoma 7/5”;
Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated 07M>7

Tumor extent: Tumor is invades skeletal muscle.

Tumor size (in cm): 15 x 8 x 6cm

Lymph nodes:

UUID: C916336E- 3757- 49A9- 9DEB- E8F99F6R46055
TCGA- UE- A6Q T- BlA- PR

Illlllllllllllllilll{lﬂllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllRllllHlllcll¢ad
l

Margins:

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment:

If yes, type of treatment seen:
Severity of treatment effect:

Comments:

 

 

 

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

V4.0”

 

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form» should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (TSS): ATSS identiﬁer:. _TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer: ._.____.,, _.
Completed By (Interviewer Name Completed Date: __
Diagnosis information
It Data Element Entry Alternatives Workinginstructlons
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis {)9 — all}: {Q ran {1 [Line d the initial pathology report for this case. if the histology for
1 Provided on initial ' . ' this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report [LPNCUCOD‘LK .
. Provide the histologlc features selected on the TCGA Case
Histologic features of ,
« c Q lit C mm! P m com ieted for this ase.
2 the sample provided HUB“)! eht t Apt .5 111 mm. ua y 0 or n c
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.

 

 

[Discrepancy between Patholo

gy Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

 

Biorepository Director

3 Provide the reason far i Prolvlrlh a reason describing why the tliaginfsi: a: ghehiIIltial
. pat Io ogy report or: I scase s not cons 5 en t t e
géettihseireiﬁirgthology ‘5 [L f 2,! diagnosis selected on tho TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCGA
Case Quality Control
Form.
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case:
4 Pathologist or f" “55'

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above informo ticm provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controller].

 

WTFSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my Institution ls true and correct and has been quality controlled; The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Choirnmn has been informed or is aware aflhe above discrepancy m diagnosss.

wPrincipal» investigator Signature

 

Date

