UUID: FD309212-9782-‘ACE-HAD59 019334297A2Fa
III II IIIIIIIIII II IIITII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I Illlll lIl
HHIIIIHII IIlIllI I|||I||Il Il|I|ll|IIIII |I||| IIIIIIII I Illlll

III
“II lIlIlIlIllIllIlllIlIIIlllllll III” "III" II
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: SPECIMEN CLASS:
BILLING #: ALT ID #2
LOCATION: DATE OF PROCEDURE:
AGE: SEX: F DATE RECEIVED:
DOB: ' TIME RECEIVED:
PHYSICIAN: DATE OF REPORT:
COPY TO: DATE OF PRINTING:
ICtD—D 3 (2/
MW .~ s b 3
A: left axillary sentinel lymph node #1 blue (,9,wa , [mt-Iv LﬂJND‘J B b “
B: left axillary sentinel lymph node #2 blue .
C: left breast total mastectomy C) (:L (D 63¢an 03 0 COO?
D: 8 o'clock additional medial short superior, long anterior, clip true margin J“ y
E: 8 o'clock additional inferior short anterior, long lateral clip true margin \ ..
F: 8 o'clock additional anterior short superior, long lateral, clip true margin QI: v Olga/I4

G: 8 o‘clock additional posterior short superior. long lateral, clip true margin
H: additional skin left breast blue at 3:00

year old female with a clinical history of breast cancer.

 

 

A. Lymph node, "left axillary sentinel lymph node #1 blue", biopsy:

Micrometastatic mammary carcinoma (0.23 mm) identiﬁed on permanent and pancytokeratin immunostained sections
only. See comment.

B. Lymph node, "left axillary sentinel lymph node #2 blue", biopsy:
There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1).

Deeper sections and a pancytokeratin immunostain are negative in support of the above diagnosis.

C. Breast, "left breast total mastectomy", mastectomy:

Invasive ductal carcinoma, moderately differentiated, nuclear grade 2, two foci (measuring 1.2 cm and 1.8 cm in greatest
dimension respectively). See comment.

D. Fibroadipose tissue, "8 o'clock additional medial short superior, long anterior, clip true margin", reresection:
No diagnostic abnormalities.

There is no evidence of malignancy.

E. Fibroadipose tissue, "8 o'clock additional inferior short anterior, long lateral clip true margin", reresection:
No diagnostic abnormalities.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

F. Fibroadipose tissue, "8 o'clock additional anterior short superior, long lateral, clip true margin“, reresection:
No diagnostic abnormalities.

There is no evidence of malignancy.

G. Skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, "8 o ‘clock additional posterior short superior, Ionglateral, clip true margin", reresection:
MR #:

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Order Number

Page 1 of 5

SURGICAL FAl I-IULUGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #1 ALT ID #2

No diagnostic abnormalities.
There is no evidence of malignancy.

H. Skin, "additional skin left breast blue at 3:00", reresection:
No diagnostic abnormalities.
There Is no evidence of malignancy.

Eminent;
INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST
Specimen Type: mastectomy
Laterality: left
Tumor Site: lower Inner quadrant at 8:00 and mid outer quadrant at 3:00
Histologic Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma
Size of Invasive Component: 1.2 cm in greatest dimension (8:00) and 1.8 cm in greatest dimension (3:00)
Tumor Multicentricity: Present (2 feel as noted above)
Surgical Margins: Final margins are negative for carcinoma. In the mastectomy, the 8:00 focus is within 0.1 cm of the Inferior,
medial and anterior margins and within 0.2 cm of the deep margin; howeverthe separately submitted additional medial, Inferior,
anterior and posterior margins (specimens B through G) are negative for carcinoma.
Histologic Grade (Nottingham Histologic Score): ll/lll

Tubule Formation: 3

Nuclear Grade: 2

Mitotic Count (40x objective): 1

Total Nottingham Score: 6/9
Ductal Carcinoma ln-sltu (DCIS): Present, focal, intermediate nuclear grade, without necrosis
Lobular Carcinoma ln-situ (LClS): Absent
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present, focal
Perineural Invasion: not identiﬁed
Tumor Necrosis: not identiﬁed
Nipple Involvement: not identiﬁed
Skin Involvement: not identiﬁed
Lymph Node Sampling:

Sentinel lymph node(s) only

Total number of involved nodes/total nodes found: 1 micrometastasis out of 2 nodes.
Size of largest metastasis: 0.23 mm
Extranodal extension: not identiﬁed
Fixation to one another:

Non-neoplastic Breast Tissue: not identiﬁed
Treatment Effect (Response to Presurgical Neoadjuvant Therapy):

In the Breast:

In the Lymph Nodes:
Prognostic markers: See for addendum on prior biopsy
Fixation Time between 6-48 hours: Yes
Pathologic Staging:

pT2N(sn) 1miM(not applicable)

Primary Tumor (Invasive Carcinoma) (pT)
pT1: Tumor 520 mm in greatest dimension

pT1c: Tumor >10 mm but 520 mm In greatest dimension
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN)
(sn): Only sentinel node(s) evaluated. If 6 or more sentinel nodes and/or nonsentinel nodes are removed, this modiﬁer
should not be used.
pN1mi: Micrometastases (greater than 0.2 mm and/or more than 200 cells, but none greater than 2.0 mm).
Distant Metastasis (M)

Not applicable

 

MR Page 2 of 5
Date of Printing: SU RGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #1

The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional. as it reﬂects only current pathologic data and does not
incorporate full knowledge of the patient‘s clinical status and/or prior pathology.

The ﬁnal diagnosis has been communicated via electronic mail to by

ME;
By this signature, I attest that I have personally formulated the ﬁnal interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based
upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report.

‘**Electronically Signed Out By*""
Interpreted by:

 

 

A. Received fresh labeled with the patient‘s name and "left axillary sentinel lymph node #1 blue" is an irregular portion of red-tan
ﬁbroadipose tissue. The tissue is palpated to reveal one possible lymph node measuring 2.8 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm. The specimen is
serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassettes A1 FS and A2FS for frozen and permanent diagnosis.

B. Received fresh labeled with the patient‘s name and "left axillary sentinel lymph node #2 blue" is an irregular portion of red-tan
ﬁbroadlpose tissue. The tissue is palpated to reveal one possible lymph node measuring 2.5 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm. The possible lymph
node is serially sectioned and submitted entirely in cassette B1FS for frozen and permanent diagnosis.

C. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "left breast total mastectomy short superior/long lateral" is a 650 gram
simple mastectomy specimen measuring 20.5 x 18 x 3.5 cm. There is a short stitch marking superior and a long stitch marking
lateral. The breast is serially sectioned to reveal a 1.2 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm tan-pink stellate mass that is 22.5 cm from the lateral margin,
abutting the medial margin, 8.4 cm from the superior margin, abutting the inferior margin, 0.2 cm from the superﬁcial margin, and
0.2 cm from the deep margin. The mass is located in the lower inner quadrant at approximately 8:00. The deep resection margin
is Inked black and the superﬁcial resection margin is inked blue. The medial margin of the mass Is inked orange and the inferior
margin of the mass is inked green. A second tan-white stellate mass measuring 1.8 x 1.5 x 1.4 cm is located 6.5 cm from the
lateral margin, 13.6 cm from the medial margin, 13.6 cm from the superﬁcial margin, 8.3 cm from the inferior margin,

2.4 cm from the superﬁcial margin/skin and 3.7 cm from the deep margin. The mass is located in the mid outer portion of the
specimen at approximately 3:00. The remainder of the breast parenchyma is yellow-white and unremarkable. The specimen
contains a tan-brown skin ellipse measuring 7.2 x 4.5 cm. The nipple measures 1.4 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm. There is no dimpling or skin
retraction identiﬁed. The breast is placed in formalin at . The specimen is submitted as follows:

C1 Lower inner quadrant mass to medial margin.

C2—C4 Remainder of lower inner quadrant mass (to superﬁcial, deep and inferior margin).

05-06 Second mass to deep margin (bisected).

C7-C8 Second mass to superﬁcial margin/skin (bisected).

09-014 Remainder of second mass.

C15 Representative section from upper inner quadrant.

016 Representative section from lower inner quadrant.

C17 Representative section from lower outer quadrant.

C18 Representative section from upper outer quadrant.

C19 Nipple (serially sectioned).

C20 Skin. '

D. Received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and "8:00 additional medial, short superior, long lateral, clip true" Is a 2.6
x 1.9 x 1.0 cm lumpectomy specimen, with a short suture designating superior, a long stitch designating anterior, and clips
designating the true (medial) margin. The specimen is received as follows:

Anterior - orange

Posterior - black

True (medial) — green

Lateral - blue

The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior to reveal a tan—yellow, glistening cut surface. No discrete lesions are

identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted entirely from superior to Inferior in cassettes D1 through D4. The breast was placed in
formalin at

 

MR

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Page 3 of 5

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #:

E. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "8:00 additional inferior short anterior, long lateral, clip true margin" is
a 3.0 x 2.3 x 1.1 cm lumpectomy specimen, with short suture designating anterior, long suture designating lateral, and clips marking
the true margin. The specimen Is inked as follows:

Anterior - orange

Posterior - black

Superior — blue

True (inferior) - green

The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to lateral to reveal a yellow—gold, glistening cut surface. No discrete lesions are

identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted entirely from medial to lateral in cassette E1 through E4. The breast is placed In formalin
at

F. Received In formalin labeled with the patient's name and "8:00 additional anterior short superior, long lateral, clip true margin"
is a 3.2 x 1.7 x 0.3 cm lumpectomy specimen, with short sutures designating superior, a long stitch designating lateral, and clips
designating the true (inferior) margin. The specimen is inked as follows:

True (anterior) - orange

Posterior - black

Medial - green

Lateral - blue

The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior to reveal a yellow, glistening cut surface. No discrete lesions are

identiﬁed. The specimen is submitted entirely from superior to inferior in cassettes F1 through F3. The breast is placed in
formalin at

G. Received In formalin labeled with the patient's name and "8:00 additional posterior short superior, long lateral, clip at true
margin" is a 2.1 x 1.9 x 0.6 cm lumpectomy specimen with short sutures designating superior, a long set of sutures designating
lateral, and clips designating the true margin. The specimen is inked as follows:

Anterior - orange

True (posterior) — black

Medial - green

Lateral - blue

The specimen is serially sectioned from superiorto inferior to reveal a tan-pink to tan-brown cut surface. No discrete lesions are

grossly identiﬁed. The specimen Is submitted entirely from superior to inferior in cassettes Gt through G3 The specimen is
placed in formalin at

H. Received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and "additional skin left breast blue at 3:00" is a 5.0 x 5.0 cm C-shaped
portion of tan-brown skin and subcutaneous tissue with an attached strip of brown skin measuring 13.9 x 0.3 x 0.5 cm. The skin

on the specimen was inked blue in the OR and designates 3:00. The remainder of the specimen is inked as follows:
12 to 3:00 - orange

3 to 6:00 - purple
6 to 9:00 — blue

9 to 12:00 — green
Deep-black

The specimen is serially sectioned from 12 to 6:00, and no discrete lesions are identiﬁed. Also received within the container are
two irregular portions of tan-brown skin and subcutaneous tissue measuring 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm and 8.6 x 0.3 x 0.5 cm. This tissue
is serially sectioned and no di5crete lesions are identified. The specimen is submitted as follows:

H1 - Representative sections from the 12 to 3:00 margin

H2-H4 — Representative sections from the 3 to 6:00 margin

H5 - Representative sections from the 6 to 9:00 margin

H6 - Representative sections from the 9 to 12:00 margin

H7-H8 - Representative sections from the additional skin and underlying soft tissue

W
A1 FS, A2FS, lymph node, "left axillary sentinel lymph node #1 blue":
Negative for carcinoma.

MR Page 4 of 5
Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

NAME: SURG PATH #:
MR #: ALT ID #:

 

B1 FS, lymph node, "left axillary sentinel lymph node #2 blue":
Negative for carcinoma.

If immunohistochemical stains and/or in situ hybridization are cited in this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the

- . , ' in compliance with CLIA'88
regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of “analyte speciﬁc reagents" and are subject to speciﬁc labeling requirements by the FDA. Known
positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the

It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval
is not necessary.

 

 

MR Page 5 of 5

Date of Printing: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

