OUID: 52F:[I12i!- 9-29C9- 4A98- -A9EB- 4-23F43C'33A87
eda cted

C i; Ill||illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllll|ll|||||l||l|||l|

“ 4 lllllllllllllllllllll||ll||||l|ll|ll|ll|lll|Ill
“ll“Hillnlllﬂlllulllllllllllllllll|llllilllllllllllllllllllllllllll

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Patient“ *‘ Accession: ‘

 

DOB: t- 7 Age. Sex: F Account: Date Collected: » ..
MRN: ‘ V - I. Date Received:
Requesteo by: m. Patient — Date Reported:

 

 

Clinical Data: Thyroid cancer

FiNAL PATHOLOGiC DIAGNOSIS

1. . Right thyroid lobe (30 grams), thyroid lobectomy: ‘w '0 "5
Papillary carcinoma of thyroid (6.5 cm), see Synoptic Report. CW MAS
One benign perlthyroid lymph node also present (0H). ‘ ~ b0] $03
svnoeric REPORT @1125, J M ”53 Q75 .7
Tumor site: Right lobe of thyroid ,
Histologlc type: Papillary carcinoma (9431152249qu
Tumor size: 6.5 cm
Extrathyroldal extension: Present. extensive
Surgical margins: Tumor involves inked margin in anterior aspect of specimen
Angiolymphatic invasion: Indeterminate
Perineural invasion: Present
Lymph nodes: One positive level lV lymph node identiﬁed (see separate specimens)
Surgical Pathology Staging: pT4a Mb

2. Right cricothyroid muscle: Negative for malignancy.

3. Right inferior constrictor muscle: Negative for malignancy.
4. Right anterior cricoid: Negative for malignancy.
5. Tissue at right cricothyroid Joint: Negative for malignancy.

6. Right inferior parathyroid (40 mg): Benign norm ocellular parathyroid tissue idontiﬁe d.
7. Right level lV lymph nodes: Negative for malignancy, two lymph nodes identified (012).

8. Right level IV lymph nodes:
One of two lymph nodes are positive for metastatic papillary carcinoma (1I2).
Metastatic focus measures 0.4 cm, without extranodai extension.

W

Page1 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT - CONTINUED

 

 

Patient: a Result ID: ~ Accession: -

 

 

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Right level lV lymph nodes #2: Negative for malignancy, nine lymph nodes identiﬁed (019).
Right level "3 lymph nodes: Negative for malignancy, two lymph nodes identiﬁed (0I2).
Right level IIA lymph nodes: Negative for maligna ncy, eleven lymph nodes identiﬁed (0111).
Right level V lymph nodes: Negative for malignancy, twelve lymph nodes identified (0l12).

Right level III plum omohyoid muscle:

Negative for malignancy, three lymph nodes identiﬁed (013).
Portion of benign skeletal muscle also present.

Pathologist, Electronic Signature

SPECIMEMS) SUBMITTED: GROSS DESCRIPTION

1.

Right thyroid lobe: ln formalin labeled "light thyroid lobe" is a 30 gram. 6.5 x 3.5 x 2.6 cm thyroid lobe. The specimen is
oriented with a single long stitch designated as superior, a double long stitch as inferior and the prevertebral fascia
margin is inked blue by the surgeon. The capsular surface is red-purple and ragged. The specimen ls Inked as follows:
anterior - green. posterior - blue and prevertebral fascia - black. Sectioning reveals a 6.5 cm in greatest dimension
focally calciﬁed. nodular tan-white mass extending from the superior pole to the inferior pole and which approaches the
inked capsule and prevertebral fascia margin. The mass involves the majority of the thyroid parenchyma. Residual red—
brown parenchyma is present at the periphery of the inferior pole. Representative sections are submitted sequentially
from superior to inferior in 8 cassettes as A-H following decalciflcailon.

Right cricothyraid muscle: Received fresh for frozen section as "right cricothyroid muscle" is a piece of pink-red soft
tissue measuring up to 0.5 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section evaluation. The frozen section
remnant is submitted for permanent sections in one cassette.

Right inferior constrictor muscle: Received fresh for frozen section as ”right inferior constrictor mu sole" is a piece of
pink-tan soft tissue measuring up to 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section evaluation. The
frozen section remnant is submitted for permanent sections in one cassette.

Right anterior cricold: Received fresh for frozen section as "right anterior cricold" is a piece of pink-red soft tissue

measuring up to 0.4 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section evaluation. The frozen section remnant is
submitted for permanent sections in one cassette.

Tissue at right cricothyroid joint: Received fresh for frozen section as “tissue at right crloothyroid joint" is a piece of ten
soft tissue measurlng up to 0.3 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section evaluation. The frozen section
remnant is submitted for permanent sections in one cassette.

Right inferior parathyroid: Receivedfresh for frozen section as "right inferior parathyroid" is a piece of pink-tan soft
tissue measuring up to 0.6 cm and weighing 40 mg. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section evaluation.
The frozen section remnant is submitted for permanent sections in one cassette

Right levol IV lymph node: in formalin labeled "right level IV lymph node" is a 3.5 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm aggregate of adipose

tissue. Sectioning reveals 2 lymph nodes 0.9 and 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. The nodes are differentially inked.
bisected and both entirely submitted in one cassette.

Right level IV lymph node: Received fresh for frozen section as “right level lV lymph node“ are four pieces of apparent
pink—brown lymph nodes. ranging in Slze from 0.4 cm to 1 .4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is entirely
submitted for frozen sectlon evaluation. The frozen section remnant is submitted for permanent sections in one cassette.

Page 2 of 3

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT - CONTINUED

 

 

Patient: a Result lD: _ Accession: -

 

 

9. Right level IV Iymphnode #2: ln formalin labeled “right level IV lymph node" is a 4.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm aggregate of
ﬁbrofatty tissue. Sectioning reveals multiple nodes ranging to 1.1 cm in greatest dimension which are submitted in two
cassettes as labeled: A ﬁve nodes; 8 four nodes. '

10. Right level ”5: In formalin labeled "right level MB" is a 2.6 x 1.8 x 1.5 cm aggregate of adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals
two lymph nodes which are submitted in one cassette.

11. Right level IIA: in formalin labeled "right level “A" is a 5 x 3.2 x 1.8 cm portion of adipose tissue. Sectioning reveals
multiple lymph nodes ranging to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension which are submitted in three cassettes as labeled: A six
nodes; 8 four nodes; C largest node. bisected.

12. Right level V: In formalin labeled "right level V“ is a 6.5 x 4.8 x 2.2 cm portion of ﬁbrofatty tissue. Sectioning reveals
multiple lymph nodes which are submitted in three cassettes as labeled: A four nodes; B ﬁve nodes; C ﬁve nodes.

13. Right level Ill plus omohyoid muscle: In formalin labeled "right level ill plus omohyoid muscle" is a 5 x 4.5 x 2.2 cm
aggregate of ﬁbrofatty tissue and muscle. Sectioning reveals two deﬁnitive lymph nodes. No gross tumor is identiﬁed in
the portion of muscle. Representative sections are submitted in two cassettes as labeled: A two lymph nodes; B
representative muscle.

INTRAOPERATIVE REPORT:

2. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Negative for malicnancv.
[interpreted by

3. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Negative for malignancy.
[interpreted by .

4. Frozen Section Diagnosis; Negative for malignancy.
[interpreted by

5. Frozen Section Diagnosis: Negative for malicnancv.
[interpreted by

6. [Frozen Section Diagnosis: Benign parathyroid tissue Identiﬁed.
[interpreted by

8. Frozen Section Diaonosis: Positive for metastaﬁc papillary carcinoma.
[interpreted by

CPT CODE(S): lCD-9 CODE{S): FACILITY:

68331 x6, 88307 KB. 88305 x7 [193]

W /-7—/|3 (3

END OF REPORT

 

 

