uum:11ansnao- ruse-4095442» EC8524EBAA6C
TCGA-VM-ASCB-elA-PR Redacted
lllHllll

Illlll|llllllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllll

l
I II
'i'm'iii'ii'ii'.iiiiiiii’iiii’l'iiiii'iiiii

    

ACCESSION I moo—3 '

. . i . ’ , I 3 11:!
Submlttlng Physmran ‘ Q a 3 9450/3

Clinical History . @316

Low-grade glioma' O£¥:;;: 3E34Aer, ' ' }JZ>:5

Diagnosis . (17/. O
1. BRAIN TUMOR, UNSPECIFIED SITE, RESECTION: .

- OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, WHO GRADE 11 -’ W a 7L 0
2. BRAIN TUMOR, UNSPECIFIED SITE, RESECTION: . , W'119‘7p9

~ OLIGODENDROGLIOMA, WHO GRADE II

I certify that I personally conducted the
diagnostic evaluation on the above specimens
and have rendered the above diagnosis(es):

electronic signature

For questions regarding this case, call

Frozen Section Diagnosis

Frozen section diagnosis per

lFA: "Low-grade glioma"

Gross Description

Two specimens are received labeled with the patient's name and medical record
number.

Specimen one is received fresh for frozen section labeled "tumor", and consists of
an aggregate of pink—tan soft tissue fragments measuring 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm. A
representative section is submitted for frozen section. After frozen section the
specimen is wrapped, transferred and submitted in cassette lFA for permanents. The
remainder of the specimen is submitted in cassette 1A.

Specimen two is received in formalin labeled "tumor", and consists of an aggregate
of pink-tan, irregular soft tissue fragments measuring 2.2 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm.
submitted entirely in cassette 2A.

Microscopic Examination

Performed.

The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed on permanent sections.

Synoptic Report

College of American Pathologists (CAP) Cancer Protocol

 

   

  

,Surgical Pathology Cancer Case Summary (Checklist)

Protocol effective date:

History of Previous Tumor/ Familial Syndrome
Not specified

Specimen Type/Procedure
Resection

Specimen Handling
Squash/smear/touch preparation
Frozen section
unfrozen for routine permanent paraffin sections

Specimen Size
Greatest dimension; 2.2 cm

Laterality
Not specified

Tumor Site
Brain/cerebrum

Histologic Type and Grade (applicable World Health
Organization [WHO] classification and grade)
Oligodendroglioma (WHO grade II)

Histologic Grade (WHO histologic grade)
WHO grade II

Ancillary Studies
Immunohistochemistry: .
MIB—l — fields with up to l0% proliferation index

Molecular genetic studies:
1p FISH — pending
19q FISH — pending

Additional Pathological Findings
None

 

    

ACESSION

Addendum Discussion

Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) analysis for deletions of 1p and/or 19q
are performed on sections from block “2A".

Calculated 1p/1q ratio = 0.98 (<o.74 is deleted)
Calculated 19q/19p ratio = 0.90 (<O.BB is deleted)

The results are interpreted as not deleted for both 1p and 19q.

A result of a deleted 1p and 19g suggests a favorable prognosis. A solitary 1p
deletion suggests an intermediate prognosis. A 19q solitary deletion may suggest a
favorable prognosis in a smaller subset of tumors. The lack of either 1p and/or
19q deletion(s) is considered a poor prognostic indicator and may be associated
with decreased disease-free survival and overall survival.

There is no change to the original diagnosis.

I certify that I personally conducted the
diagnostic evaluation on the above specimen(s)
and have rendered the above diagnosis(es):

electronic signature

 

    

ACCESSION

Addendum DISCUSSIon . »

At the request of the clinicians, immunohistochemistry for IDH-l was performed on
this tumor. The tumor is diffusely positive for IDH—l, making it likely that the
tumor is mutated for IDH—l. The diagnosis is unchanged.

This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for
Clinical use. The results are not intended to be “casino the sole means for
clinical diagnosis or patient management decisions.

I certify that I personally conducted the
diagnostic evaluation on the above specimen(s)
’and have rendered the above diagnosis(es):

electronic signature

 

ACESSION

Addendum Discussion
MGMT METHYLATION ASSAY : GENE METHYLATION DETECTED.

MGMT Methylation Assay was performed on sections from block "2A" by . The
results of this assay are reported below:

MGMT Methylation Assay:

Result: Gene Methylation detected.
Methylation Score: 127.13

—-REFERENCE VALUEe~
unmethylated <2.00
ymethylated >=2.00

Background.

MGMT [0(6)-methylguanine- -DNA methyltransferase] is a DNA repair enzyme that is
involved in the repair of damage caused by a variety of DNA crosslinking compounds,
including alkylating agents. Increased methylation of the MGMT gene promoter
region causes diminished or silenced expression of the gene, making cells more
sensitive to DNA damage. This relationship has been shown for glioblastomas and
alkylating agents such as temozolomide. Approximately 40-50% of glioblastomas
exhibit MGMT gene methylation. Retrospective studies have shown that detection of
MGMT promotor methylation in tumor samples is associated with an increased
likelihood of a favorable response to temczolomide.

Methodology:

DNA is isolated from formalin- fixed, paraffin— embedded (FFPE) specimens.
Molecular analvsis of the MGMT gene is performed by methylation- specific PCR and
detected on The MGMT and beta—Actin copy numbers are used to calculate
the ratio of MGMT/beta-Actin x 1000. Molecular-based testing is highly accurate,
but as in any laboratory test, rare diagnostic errors may occur. Results of this
test are for Investigational Purposes Only. The performance characteristics of
this assay have been determined by The result should not be used as a
diagnostic procedure without confirmation of the diagnosis by another medically
established diagnostic product or procedure.

I certify that I personally conducted the
diagnostic evaluation on the above specimen(s)
and have rendered the above diagnosistes):

electronic signature

 

 

Criieria 4AA) 11!.lla

“.nagno; Is D‘orn M"!
> T

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

