UUID:3F9234C8-EDSF-486D-A751-73913651D548 ‘ >—{ )-
TCGA-44-A47A—E1 - s C: 13

A PR Redacted
IHlllHllHHlHININIHIMHfllllﬂlllllmllﬂm lllHllmlll R Q ,C mornq Nos
IHHI!lllllllﬂIIHIHIIIIHIHHI l 0‘5 V’ 04 ,
m lllllllllllHlllllllll llllllllllll'll'lllllll’llllylllllllllﬁ'I‘ll“I" {News

Final Surgical Pathology Report 514‘“)ng “PPCW ’ O‘O-C
Procedure: 63512 C34.‘
Diagnosis fiﬂ3

A. Lung, right upper lobe, resection: Moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma

B. Lymph nodes, R4, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy in any
of 4 lymph nodes.

C. Lymph nodes, level X, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy in
either of 2 lymph nodes. ‘

D. Lymph nodes, level VII, biopsy: There is no evidence of malignancy
in any of 6 lymph nodes.

Microscopic Description:
A.
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: 2 of 3

Mitotic index: 4 Mitoses/lO HPFs (l HPF = 0.23 sq. mm)

Tumor size: 3.7 cm

Bronchial resection margin: Negative for malignancy

Pulmonary margin of resection: Negative for malignancy

Pleura: Negative for malignancy

Vascular invasion: Absent

Attached lymph nodes: Two lymph nodes, negative for malignancy
pTNM stage: T2a N0

Non—tumorous lung: Emphysema

There is a portion of the tumor with a more solid appearance (A6), but
the immunohistochemical staining pattern is compatible with
adenocarcinoma.

Antibody...Results...Comment

TTF—l ...Positive

CK5/6 ...Neqative

.p63 ...Weakly positive

Paraffin sections: 10% neutral buffered formalin; Controls stain
appropriately.

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents.
These antibodies are monitored and controlled in our laboratory and
their performance for
in vitro diagnosis is well described in the medical literature.
They have not been cleared
or approved by the FDA.]

Specimen

A. Right upper lobe

E. R4 lymph node

C. Level X node

D. Level VII lymph node

Clinical Information
Lung cancer

Gross Description

A. The specimen is received unfixed labeled right upper lobe and
consists of a 174 g lung lobe measuring 13.5 by 10 by 4 cm. There is a
stapled margin on one side of the specimen. There is a palpable mass at
one pole the specimen.On cut section the mass measures 3.7 by 3.5 cm in
greatest cross sectional dimension. A portion of the specimen is taken
for research purposes. Sections after fixation. Rsll

B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled R4 lymph node and consists
of 3 pieces of black soft tissue measuring 1.5, 0.6 and 0.5 cm in
greatest dimension. AS—l

Specimen C. is received unfixed labeled level 10 node and consists of 5
pieces of tan and black soft tissue occupying approximately 1.5 mL in
volume. AS—l

Specimen D. is received unfixed labeled level 7 lymph node and consists
of 4 pieces of black soft tissue measuring 1.4 cm in greatest aggregate
dimension. AS—l

[Steri-

'Iaylosl: Uiitrepam‘y

vimary Zuwur sue Discrepancy

HPAA Dianna“,

u‘or Malignancy History

mﬂmﬂmsep
as: Is (circle):
.eviewer Iniual

 

ary NM
uAunto ,1
2 Reviewed: ,

 

