 

COMMENTS:
Although the small deposit of neoplasm in the endometrium does not show distinct papillary growth features, cytologicaliy It is essentially identical to the
neoplasm seen in the ovaries. Similarly. the neoplasm in the paramem‘al soft tissues does not show distinct papillary growth pattern but is cylologically

similar to the ovarian neoplasm.

   

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:
Postoperative Diagnosisi
Symptomisadiologlc Findings:

SPECIMENS;
. Left tube and ovary FS
. Pelvic nodules
. Uterus, right tube and ovary
. Left pelvic nodes
. Left para—aortic
. Left pelvic
. Right pelvic
. Right para-aortic
I. Omentum
Umbilical hemia

IO‘ﬁmUOwb

 

GROSS DESCRIPTiON:
A. Container A is labeled ‘\ and consists of a 179 gram tan-gray hemorrhagic ovarian mass, 8.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm in greatest dimension. The

outer surface displays multiple nodules as well as an adhesed fallopian tube segment with delicate fimbrie. 7.0 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter.
Sectioning reveals serous fluid ﬁlled cystic cavity of the dimensions displaying gray-yellow papillary projections of the inner lining of the cyst wall in an
area 4.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. Samples of this tissue are submitted for frozen section. Representative samples submitted in seven cassettes which are
designated as follows: frozen section tissue-4; fallopian tube-2; multiple samples cyst wall-55 to 7. A total of ﬁve blocks are submitted for genhomic
research from part A.

8. Container 8 is labeled and consists of a tan-yellow soil nodule. 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. it is bisected and entirely submitted in one cassette.

C. Container 0 is labeled land consists of a 4? gram uterus. 6.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. The screen! surface is tan~orange
fibrous hemorrhagic displaying a few adhesions. The cervix is covered by a tan-gray glistening mucosa with a central patent cs, 0.3 cm in diameter.
The endooervical canal is tan-pink slightly roughened. The endometlial cavity is lined by tan-pink focally hemorrhagic mucosa. 0.2 cm in thickness. The
myometrium averages 1.6 cm is indurated displaying gray—white whorled nodules. 0.5 cm in diameter. Samples of the right and left parametrium are
submitted. The right parametrium is inked.

Attached is the right ovary and fallopian tube segment. The ovary is tan—yellow nodular hemorrhagic. 3.8 x 3.0 x 2.8 cm in greatest dimension displaying
multiple adhesions. Sectioning reveals a tan-yellowlobular ﬁrm out surface. Attached on the outer surface is a tan-gray fallopian tube segment with
delicate ﬁmbria. 6.0 cm In length and 0.4 cm in diameter displaying multiple adhesion.

Samples of the uterus have been submitted tor genhomic studies in three orange cassettes.

Representative samples submitted in twelve cassettes which are designated as follows: anterior cervix—4: posterior cervix—2; anterior myometriumws
and 4: posterior myornetrlum--5 and 6: whoried nodules-‘7: right and left paramotrium--8: ovary and fallopian tube— 9 to 12.

Following initial evaluation of the specimen microscopically. the remainder of the endometn‘urn was blocked in 013-18.

0. Container Dis labeled and consists of a tan-yellow lobutar mass of adipose tissue, 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm In greatest dimension entirely
submitted In one cassette.

E. Container E is labeled ' .rd consists of a tan-yellow rubbery ﬁrm odule, 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected and entirely
submitted in one cassette.

 

 

 

 

 

 

tr: - - . '
F. Container F is labeled -' nd consists ofmuitltile tan-yellowlobular portions of adipose tissue. 4.0 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm in aggregate. Sectioning
reveals ﬁve tan-yellow ﬁrm rubbery nodules. the largest 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. Samples of these ﬁve nodules are submitted in two cassettes.

G. Container G is labeled ' .id consists of multiple tan-yeilow Iobular portions of adipose tissue. 6.0 x 4.0 x 3.0 em in aggregate. Sectioning
reveals four tan-yellow firm fatty lymph nodes. the largest 2.8 an in greatest dimension. Samples of these nodes are submitted in three cassettes.

H. Container H is labeled and consists of a tan—yellow lobular mass or adipose tissue, 2.4x 1.0 x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Sectioning
reveals two tan-yellow ﬁrm nooutes, the largest 0.8 cm. Samples are submitted in one cassette.

l. Container! is labeled “ ' - .d consists of a 288 gram mass of tan-yellow lobular omentum, 36.0 x 15.0 x 1.5 cm in greatest dimension.
Sectioning reveals multiple yunuN'While ﬁrm nodules. the largest 3.5cm in greatest dimension. These nodules represent iess than 10% of the
omentum. Representative samples submitted in four cassettes.

J. Container J is tabeled ~ . 4nd oonsists ofa purpte—pink rubbery mass of membranous tissue, 3.8 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm in greatest dimension.

WW: lobutar ﬁrm cut surtace. No lesions are grossly identiﬁed. Representative samples submitted in one cassette.

 

 

 

 

IAGNOSiS:
. Ovary and fallopian tube, left. excision with frozen section:
Papillary serous carcinoma of the ovary.

Grade: 3i3. '
. Degree of ovarian involvement: Ovary replaced.
. Size: 8.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm.
Lymphovascular space invasion: Absent.
5. Left fallopian tube: Uninvolved by neoplasm.
;. Frozen section results continued.

3. Soft tissue, pelvis, excision:
Noduiar necrotic adipose tissue, consistent with torted appendix epiploica.

3. Uterus. cervix, eXcision:

No pathologic alterations.
Uterus, endometriurn, excision:
Adenocarclnoma, grade 3i3, 1.5 mm nodule conﬁned to endometrium.
Cystic atrophy, diffuse.
Atrophic polyp.
Uterus, myomeirium, excision:

Adenomyosis with atrophic changes.
Leiomyomata.
Uterus, serosa, excision:
No pathologic alterations.

Soft tissue, parametrial, excision:
Adenocarcinoma, metastatic.

Fallopian tube. right, excision: ,
No pathologic alterations.

' Ovary, right, excision:

Papillary serous carcinoma. .

1. Grade: (MS.

2. Degree of involvement: Replaces approximately 80% of ovary.

3. Size: 3.8 x 3.0 x 2.8 cm.

4. Lymphovascular space invasion: Absent.

D. Soft tissue. left pelvic. biopsy:
No pathologlc alterations.
No lymph nodes identified.

E. Lymph nodes, left para-aortic, regional resection:
No pathologic alterations, free of metastatic neoplasm, two lymph nodes examined.

F. Lymph nodes, left pelvic, regional resection:
No pathologlc alterations, free of metastatic neoplasm, six lymph nodes examined.

G. Lymph nodes. right pelvic, regional resection:

No pathologlc alterations, free of metastatic neoplasm. eight lymph nodes examined.

H. Lymph nodes, right para-aortic, regional resection:
No pathologic alterations, free of metastatic neoplasm, five lymph nodes examined.

1. Omentum, excision:
Papillary serous carcinoma, metastatic.
Nodules grossly identified, up to 3.5 cm.

J. Soft tissue, abdominal wall, excision:

 

 

 

