 

UUID:7SB6EA5C-3ECS-42§3-8S3C-25DD6A6A6E59

R Redacted

TCGA—KQ-A41S-BiA-P
IllIllllllllllllllllIllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll
llllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllll Ill
Illllllliilliilllllllliillillillllill‘lllllllllllIlllllllllllllllIllllllllllllll

Surgical Pathnlnav thm-ntnrv

 

 

 
   
   
 
  
 
   

 

 

I Pathol0gy Report
Ill unu unis.
Re ort Date;
Submitted by:
:rlterla .
ii E i ‘ am
grim“; 3:22;" olumpancv
mnlmepanczmow ‘ \\¥
' M “loam

gig/Eviicluonousmm r ‘ 0 Telephone:
tank drill): A L t.

' hull-ll 7 :
Revnwe. oca lo"

 

CLMCAFINFORMATION:
Bladder Ca.

Specimen submitted: A. Distinguish between ureter or vein - FS; B. Uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries. bladder

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Soft tissue (excision):
High-grade urotbelial carcinoma, present within adventitia of vein.

B. Bladder, uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries (resection):
High-grade urothelial carcinoma of the bladder with striking discobesive growth pattern, (7.0 cm).

lmmunobistochemistry performed at
tumor cells:

Positive - CK'I, C K903. mCEA
Negative - CK20, p63. p53, ER. E-Cadherin
Mucicarmine stain highlights presence of mucin within intracytoplasmic vacuoles.

demonstrates the following staining proﬁle in

The carcinoma diffusely inﬁltrates the full thickness of the bladder, extending into the periveeical fat.
endomyometrium and cervix, extending to bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes.

Tumor is present at the anterior and posterior surgical resection margins of bladder, and at the
ﬁbrom uscular tissue at bilateral ureteral margin sites.

lCD'O’S p we . as
The uretme margin is negative for tumor. Cara ’ W13 :3}:
Extensive lymphovascular invasion is present. 3 My. , ‘
TNM Pathologic tumor stage: pT4a pNX i " 5° adéer' 400$ (.La 7,"?
Note:

“ll-ulna m Caner
The tumor is composed of poorly differentiated rather small cells with discohesive growth pattem, intracytoplasmic

lumina and increased mitoses. This morphology mimicks that of lohular carcinoma of the breast. and the growth
patient is similar to that seen in poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach. diffuse-type.

The immunoproﬁle supports the urothelial origin in this case. in addition. conventional high~grade papillary urothelial

carcinoma was identiﬁed in the TURB specimen \ Jo residual typical urothelial cell carcinoma was
identiﬁed in sections of the current specimen.

Given the growth pattern of this tumor, its presence in the ovaries and fallopian tubes is interpreted as local spread
from primary site, rather than metastatic disease.

 

Page l of 2

 

 

.qg
rothelial carcinoma ivith discohesive growth pattern mimicking lobular carcinoma of breast have been prevtously

reported.

Reference: Transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder mimicking lobular carcinoma of the
breast: a discohesive variant of urothelial carcinoma.

Clinical correlation is recommended.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
A. Received fresh, the specimen is labeled ”distinguish ureter or vein." and consists of a segment of vessel measuring 0.5 cm in
diameter and 0.2 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section diagnosis. Summary of sections:

‘8. Received fresh, the specimen is labeled ”uterus. bilateral tubes and ovaries and bladder.“ and consists of a cystectomy specimen
with attached uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries. measuring l0.0 x 9.0 x 8.0 cm overall and weighing 247 grams. The
bladder mlasures 7.0 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm. The anterior and posterior surfaces of the bladder are inked black. The mucosal surface of the
bladder is thickened and irregular, and there is diffuse thickening of the bladder wall. ranging in thickness from l.2 to 3.0 cm. The
tumor extends into the perivesicle fat multifocally and approaches the anterior and posterior surgical resection margins. The tumor
also extends into the wall of the uterus and cervix which is adherent to the posterior surface of the bladder. The uterus measures 4.0
front co u to comu. 5.0 cm from cervix to fundus and 2.5 cm from anterior to posterior. The myometrium is ﬁbrotic. The
metrium is unremarkable. The cenh'uneasures 2.5 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. The left ovary measures 3.0 x L7 x 0.8 cm and has :1 U x
l.2 x |.0 cm smooth cyst ﬁlled with clear fluid. The lcﬂ fallopian tube measures 6.0 x 0.8 cm, has a normal limbriatcd end and is
partially disrupted. The right ovary measures 2.5 x l.5 at LG cm and the right fallopian tube measures 5.0 x 0.5 cm. The right tube
and ovary are unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted. Summary of sections: Bl-urethral margin; BZ-leit ureter
margin; BIS-possible right ureter margin; B4-leﬂ anterior bladder; BS-right anterior bladder; Bé-trigone; B7-leﬁ posterior bladder;
B8-right posterior bladder; B9 to BIO-bladder tumor to uterus and cervix; Bl l-anterior cervix; BIZ-posterior cervix: Bl 3-anterior
endometrium; Bl4-posterior endometrium; B l S-left ovary with cyst and fallopian tube; Bio-right ovary and fallopian tube:
B l7-additional tumor section.

lNTRAOPERATlVE DIAGNOSIS:
A. Frozen section diagnosis: Cluster of high grade urothelial carcinoma in the adventitia of vein. l
Reported to:

‘ " ' Electronically Signed 0m ' "‘ ‘

Attending Pathologist
The attending pathologist whose signature appears on this report has reviewed the diagnostic slides.

and has edited the gross and microscopic portions of the report in rendering the final diagnosis.

Slides: A-J. B- l7

,0

‘.

 

_ _____, END OF REPORT Page 2 of:

