  

UUID: 51425343- 6A45- 44E9- -99A1- -711C9C14F576
TCGA- TM- A84F- 61A- PR

llIllllfllllllilllllllllllllhlll "llllllllllhlmllilﬂllilllllllllllll

lllllllllllﬂl IMIHIHHIIII|Illllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

  

LAB. NO. :
DOCTOR :
WARD :
SEX : M REQUEST DATE :
0.0.8. DATE RECEIVED :
CONSULTANT :
COPY TO:
SPECIMEN:

Right fruntal lobe.

CLINICAL :

Right frontal lobe tumour.

MACROSCOPIC:

A dincoid piece of brain 75 x 65 x 16mm, includlng cortex and white matter. The
cerebral surface has a bulging appearance due to prnnouncad gwelling of several
adjacent gyri causing sulcal compression. over an area of approximately 40 x
30mm. Serial sections Show marked cortical thickening in areas measuring up to
8mm in thicknnss. The underlying white may also be expanded but difficult t0
judge and wlthln this region there is loss of nortico—medullary demarcation.
Within the grey matter is a 2mm cystic'space filled with altered blood (looks
traumatic). The adjacent brain parenchyma appears within normal limits. Brain
surface and 2 sections {cut face) photographed. Tissue $uhmitted Ear EM and
cytoqenetica.

BLOCK KEY:
l-leesional braln. 9.10:cortlcal bleed clot, 11-142normal appearing brain
parenchyma
MICROSCOPIC:
Representative sections of lesional brain Shaw grey and white matter wirh a
diffusely infiltrating glioma of variable cellularity. The nnoplastic cells are
set within a fibrillary and fecally microcvstic stroma and display a range af
morphological features. The predominant cell type has lntermndiate sized, raund
to Oval and'also spindly nuclei with a vesicular chromaaln pattern. Thare is
mild pleomorphism and occasicnal prominent nucleoli are seen. Some cells have
perlnuclear clearing resembling oligadendrocytes. Within other areas of the
tumour are cells with larger irregular oval nuclei which are favoured to.be
antrncytic. Fncal zenen with a spindled morphnlogy are also present. Some
areas contain moderate numbers or gemisrocytic cells, including some mini-
qemistocytes. Mitotic activity is variable and some areas no Shaw moderatn
activity. The NIB-1 proliferation index remains 10w, with approximately 5% of
cells showing positive staining. rnare is no evidence of necrmsis. A moderate
lymphoplasmaCJt infi.}.trate is seen within the Virchnw—Rebin Space. FISH
studies pending.
CONCLUSION:
Right frontal lobe tumour (preliminary reparti : Preliminary histopathology
favaurs a WHO Grade Ill astrocytoma not excluding the possibility cf a mixed
ﬁliqcnstrocytoma. FISH studies for lp and lﬁq deletions and EGFR ampliiicatlen
are helng perfnrmed and results will be issued in a supplementary report.
REGISTRAR: PATHOLOGIST:
DOCTOR REVIEW INC}:

DATED:

ELECTRONlCﬂLLY VALIDATED:

1113 0-3 I
W1C 940’ \5
3411' I‘M/WW 0:71 o
25/’/(j§:)xgﬁehtd-, 44>ilipﬂ'jLDAL' c-7/ I
$20545

   

  
    

 

