 

C s S. Histo :
in exophytic 3 cm left renal mess.

Specimens Submitted:
'1: KIDNEY. LEFT, PARTiAL NEPHRECTOMY

 

 

DiAGNOSlS:
1. KIDNEY, LEFT, PARTIAL NEPHREC’FOMY:
Tumor Type:

Renal cell carcinoma ~ Conventional (clear cell) type
A second renai cell carcinoma, papliiary type. is present

Fuhrman Nuclear Grade:

The ciear ceil carcinoma is nuclear grade MN. The papillary tumor is iype 1

Tumor Size:
Greatest diameter is 2.2 cm.
The size of the papillary tumor is 1.1 cm

Local invasion (for renal cortical types):
Not identiﬁed

Renal Vein Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor
Non-Neoplastic Kidney:
2 minute so called "papillary tubular adenomas" are present

Adrenal Gland:
Not identiﬁed

Lymph Nodes:
Not identiﬁed

Staging for renal cell carcinoma/oncocytoma:
pTl Tumor <= 7.0 cm in greatest dimension limited to the kidney

........................................................

 

Pagetoi2

 

  
 

Gross Description:

 

1). The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation labeled. "Left renal tumor with saieiiiie tumors. stitch marks the
margin". and consists of a partial nephrectomy specimen measuring 5.0 x.3.5 x 1.0 cm. The attached yellow tan fatty tissue
measures up to 5 cm in thickness. The margin with a stitch is inked blue. Cut section of the specimen shows a
wait-circumscribed grey ten lobolated tumor nodule with focal hemorrhagic areas measuring 2.2 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm. it is grossly
located 0.2 cm from the resection margin. This is designated as tumor number 1. Tumor number two shows a light tan friable
necrotic appearance and measures 1.1 x 1.1 x 0.9 cm. is located 0.3 cm from the resection margin. Tumor number one grossly
abuts the roost capsule. but does not involve it or extend into the perinephn‘c fat. The remainder of the kidney parenchyma is red
tan and grossly unremarkable. A representative section of the larger nodule is frozen. A sample of tumor and normal kidney is
given to TPS. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:

FSC ~- frozen section control
T1 -- tumor number one

T2 -- tumor number two

Summary of Sections:
Part1: KiDNEY, LEFT, PARTIAL NEPHRECTOMY

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 too i
5 t2 5

Intraopoi'ative Consultation:
Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the

tissue sample examined at the time of the lntreoperative
consultation.

1) FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSlS: RENAL CORTECAL TUMOR MARGiNS ARE NEGATiVE FOR TUMOR. -

PERMANENT BlAGNOSiS: SAME

 

Page 2 of 2 END OF REPORT

