 

HISTORY
No clinical notes.

MACROSCOPIC

One specimen received.

The specimen is labelled ‘right lower lobe” and consists of a right lower

lobectomy with a inﬂated measurements of 115 superior to interior x 120 mm
anterior to posterior x 70 mm medial to lateral. Sectioning reveals a firm pale
lobulated mass measuring 48 x 48 x 45 mm. The mass is 15 mm from the bronchial
resection margin, and 10 mm from the hilar resection margin. The mass is 3 mm
clear of the stapled resection margin, focally abuts the pleural surface. The
non-neoplastic lung parenchyma appears normal. [1 A, 2 shaves of bronchial
resection margin; tB-C, hilar lymph nodes; 1D, TS hilar resection margin; 1E,
tumour and pleura; 1F, tumour and pleura; lG, tumour and pleura; 1H, subpleural
lymph nodes; 11, subpleural nodes; 1J, non-neoplastic lung tissue; 1K bronchial
resection margin sampled at time of tumour bank sampling; 1L pulmonary artery

MICROSCOPIC

Sections show a partially necrotic poorly differentiated squamous cell
carcinoma. The lesion is subpleural and approaches central bronchi. There is
possible involvement of the visceral pleura in the region of the interlobar

fissure but tumour does not extend into the overlying adherent lung. Special
stains will be performed to assess pleural involvement. There is no blood
vessel invasion and no lymphatic permeation is seen. No perineural permeation
is identified. The lesion is well clear of the bronchial resection margin. No
lymph node metastases are seen. The adjacent lung shows minor evidence of
emphysema and there is a small amount of peribronchial carbon dust deposition.
An area of subpleural haemorrhage is noted but no subpleural lymph nodes are
identified.

SUMMARY
Right lower lobe:
A:

B:
C:
D
E:
F'.

Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma; 48 mm in maximal dimension.
No blood vessel, lymphatic or perineural invasion present.

Possible visceral pleural invasion identified; clear of bronchial margin.

: No lymph node metastases.

T2NO

Non—neoplastic lung: No significant changes.

   

.3....- n4;

 

 

 

 

 

