CGA-65—2753

 

Examination report

Macroscopic ﬁndings:

1. Parietal pleura: excised material, one with a diameter of max. 5 and one with
a diameter of 4 mm.

2. (a-i) Left inferior pulmonary lobe: resected lobe weighing 277 g and
measuring 180 x 120 x 70 mm with moderate mesh—like anthracosis of the pleura, hilar staple sutures and an
exposed bronchial stump measuring just under 10 mm. Next to this, individual, swollen lymph nodes with
anthracotic pigment but no suspicion of a tumor. In S 6 there is grayish—white tumor inﬁltration, well—
demarcated around the edge, measuring a good 40 mm, extending up to the outer pleura, with central, post~
necrotic-pseudocystic resorption featuring small lesions, and grayish—yellow, fragile, inﬁltrated, inﬂammatory
pulmonary tissue. In B6, no discernible tumor inﬁltration or destruction in the central branches examined.
Immediately next to the tumor there is an inﬂammatory, adherent section of lung (from the middle pulmonary
lobe?), closed in by the base clip, measuring 15 mm, and without any discernible tumor inﬁltration. Other than
the tumorous and pneumonic inﬁltration on laminated sections, no further focal ﬁndings.

3. L 12: bipartite, pale lymph node tissue with anthracotic pigment, measuring
just under 10 mm together.

4. (a—b) L 11: segmented lymph adipose tissue with anthracotic pigment,
measuring 25 mm together, also displaying blood coagulation in between (complete embedment).

5. (a—b) L 9: bipartite lymph adipose tissue, measuring just under 20 mm
together. Nodes with anthracotic pigment and unremarkably imposing (complete emb edment)

6. L7: bipartite lymph adipose tissue, measuring 10 mm together

7. L 4: node with anthracotic pigment and adipose tissue, measuring 10 mm.

8. L 3: adipose tissue measuring 10 mm, with an unremarkable node measuring

5 mm and with anthracotic pigment.

Microscopic ﬁndings:

1. (HE) In the instantaneous section and the subsequent parafﬁn embedment,
pleura biopsy with knotty sclerohyalinosis with slit— shaped dehiscences between the thickened, collagen fiber
bundles. Base lymphoid inﬁltiation and slight subpleural adipose connective tissue.

2. (HB, f: PAS, e to h. EvG) The central bronchial amputation border has a
bronchial wall with a regular structure, as does the per1bronehial soft tissue Next to this and further towards the
central and hilal section there are lymph nodes with anthracotic pigment build— —up and moderate histiocytosis as
well as slightly lymphatic hyperplasia and small scarred areas. The tumor described comprises mesh—like
inﬁltrative, growing structures of a pluriform, partly keratinizing, partly severe pleomorphic cell and squamous
cell carcinoma with a clearly misaligned nucleoplasmic ratio, coarsening of the chromatin and prominent
nucleoli and ﬁequent mitosis. Extensive necrosis in the center of the tumor, with pseudooystic transformation,
with concomitant stromadesmoplasia and lymphoid and lymphofollicular inﬁltrates in the tumor periphery.
Extension to the perifocal, reactive, ﬁbrosed pleura with ﬁbrinous exudate which is no longer fresh; the base
membrane of the pleura, with fragmented, elastic membrane here, is, however, not infiltrated.
Hemangioinvasion in the tumor center with a formation of obliterative tumor thrombi. Next to the tumor there
are several conﬂuent alveolar cavities with a build—up of granulocytes and foam cell macrophages, ﬁbrinous
exudate and finally conﬂuent, sprouting mesenchyme buds as well as expanded bronchia with mucus permeated
by a large quantity of leuCOcytes.

 

3. (HE) Tumor-free lymph node tissue with lymphofollicular hyperplasia, with
activated germinal centers, sinus histiocytosis and marked anthracosis.

Similar to 3
Similar to 3
Similar to 3

Similar to 3

9°74???

Similar to 3
Diagnosis:

Resected left inferior lobe l. to 8. with a centrally postnecrotically-pseudocystically transformed, poorly
differentiated and focal, keratinizing, maturing squamous cell carcinoma, measuring a maximum of 40 mm, and
located in the periphery of S 6. It extends to the still tumor~free, reactive, thickened pleura. The lobe also
displays hemoangioinvasion, and, in the peritumorous section, partly purulent, partly xanthomatous retention
pneumonia, and a tumor-free bronchial resection margin, as well as adjacent and hilar tumor-free lymph nodes
with anthracotic pigment. In samples 3 to 8 there are ﬁirther tumor-free lymph nodes with anthracotic pigment
and parietal pleura with a small build-up ofhyaline plaque.

Tumor classiﬁcation:

M—8071/3, G3, pT2, pV l, pN 0, pMX, stage I B. R O.

 

