TCGA —66 —2782

Material examined:

 

Right upper lobe and others

Clinical diagnosis and question

Bronchial carcinoma right upper lobe.

REPORT ON FINDINGS
Macroscopy

1) Mediastinal biopsy: flat preparation rich in fatty tissue, 1 cm in size, accumulation of blood on the upper
surface.

2) Right upper lobe: Inﬂated, ﬁxed preparation 19 X 12 X 8 cm in size, with predominantly hazy, cloudy, coated
pleura with brownish red coated over the apex, moderately to very patchy or reticulate grayish black markings
on the surface. Over the lateral and laterodorsal parts of segments 1 + 2 part of the chest wall adhering to the
surface measuring up to 10.5 X 8.5 cm with inclusion of two rib segments, each end smoothly separated.
Beneath this a solid tumor, in places with relatively clear arcuate demarcation against the surrounding
parenchyrna, max. 8.5 cm in diameter, extending from the center to the periphery, taking up at least half the
preparation, with dirty, grayish white section surfaces and slate-gray towards the center. On the sawn section
surfaces inﬁltration of the visceral and parietal pleura in an area at least 4 cm in size and continuous spreading
into the subplcural fatty tissue, both rib segments intact. Towards the cranial circumferential border of the part
of the chest wall, narrow, extended and running tangentially to the pleura, where tumor tissue could hardly be
distinguished from the fused and blackish whitish thickened pleural iamina. B1 and 2 not identiﬁable within the
tumor mass, incursion into the iumen also in the central section of B3, also here at least 1 sub-segment branch
incorporated into the tumor and destroyed by it there, the others moderately extended towards the periphery and
with tough, viscous material in the lumen. Extending from the previous B112 bifurcation region, whitish tumor
tissue severely constricting the upper lobe ostium and growing into the lumen of the main bronchus from the
outside. Bronchus diSplaced like a cuff, resection lines about 7 mm proximally and 5 mm distally of the upper
lobe ostium by the main and the intermediate bronchus, where the central resection border was marked with
thread. The visceral pleura was pushed forward in places by the tumor over the medial and lateral mediastinal
parts. Pale grayish yellow densities in segments 1 and 2 in particular, but also in segment 3, plus small or very
small patches of grayish white induration zones, striated in places, especially in 81. Two solid, pigmented nodes
up to 1.3 cm in the peribronchial and hilar fatty tissue, the larger with focal, pale gray section surfaces.

3} Left mediastinal repeat resectate: flat, fibrous, irregular, fatty preparation with surface smooth in places

and rather irregular in places, and clip in the vicinity of one end.
4) Hilar LN (item 10) right: part of a pigmented node 2.8 cm in size.

5) Subcarinal LN (item 7): part of a pigmented node 2.6 cm in size with some fatty surrounding tissue and light
grayish white section surfaces in places.

6) Hilar LN {item 10) left: longitudinal, fatty in places, grayish black in places, measuring 1.7 cm.

 

Examined
1) Rapid section residue + residual material,

2) Central {thread marked) resection line of main bronchus, peripheral bronchus resection line of intermediate
bronchus, upper lobe ostium + central tumor, central B3 tumor, 2 tumors with part of chest wall (e: with both
rib segments, f: cranial circumferential border; color marking of external and circumferential section surfaces),
3 sections with $1 peripheral tumor parenchyma, displacement borders of the vessels + small nodes (include
in b), larger nodes laminated by the bronchial stump (l),

3) Laminated preparation,
4) + 5) Laminated preparation,
6) Total preparation,

15 blocks.

Microscopy
Re. 1) lntra-operative immediate evaluation _): inflammatory infiltration of the pleura (?),

some abnormally large cells included, but no evidence of tumor.

Re. 2) tetra—operative immediate evaluation _)2 both displacement borders free of tumor.

Description of the histological and cytological findings omitted for reasons of capacity.
EVALUATION

Very large and locally advanced large and spindle cell, nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (WHO
category 1.3.1) of the right upper pulmonary lobe, extending from the center to the periphery, with
obliterating endobronchial growth in places, histologically poorly differentiated, with primary location in
segments 1 and 2 and extension into the soft tissue of the parts of the chest wall with adhesions. Lymphatic or
hemangioma tumor propagation at the central border of the bronchial cuff in parabronchial fatty tissue.
Mucosa and wall of the central bronchus resection line, peripheral border of the bronchial cuff, vascular
displacement borders, removal borders of the thoracic resectate, hilar resection surfaces, the lymph nodes
from samples 2) and 4) - 6) and the parts of the parietal pleura in samples 1) and 3), which show fibrinous,
active, chronic inflammation in places, are free of tumor. Focal, active, chronic retention pneumonia and
already old, sub-pleural zones of necrosis showing distinctive, chronically organizing and yellow brown
deposits of pigment of uncertain origin in the vicinity of the tumor (site of previous removal of tissue? small
peripheral pulmonary infarction?) Also peripheral, active, chronic bronchitis and bronchiolitis with focal intra-
alveolar mucosal retention, the substrate of respiratory bronchlclitis and mild, focal pulmonary emphysema.

 

TNM classification pT3 pNO L1 or V1, stage ”3.

Morphology: 80703
Topography: 028100
Morphology: 8070/3
Topography: 034.1
Grading: 3

Stage: T3NOMXRO

 

