 

PA“ ‘ ‘AL DIAGNOSIS:
OF HAS BEEN CHANGED.

BRAIN, RIGHT TEMPORAL LOBE, BIOPSY: SMALL CELL GLIOMA (TO BE FURTHER
CLASSIFIED: SEE MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION);

REVISED PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:

BRAIN, RIGHT TEMPORAL LOBE, BIOPSY: ASTROCYTOMA, ANAPLASTIC,
DIFFUSELY INFILTRATING.

Operation/Specimen: Brain, right temporal lobe.

Clinical History and Pre—Op Dx: Patient with several month history of
visual disturbances and headaches who has a CT scan lesion involving
the right temporal lobe and extending across the midline to the left
hemisphere. The differential diagnosis is between lymphoma and a
glioma.

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: Astrocytoma, anaplastic _

GROSS PATHOLOGY: Specimen received in a container labeled with the
patient's name and MRN. A portion of this specimen is used for the
intraoperative consultation and for fixation in glutaraldehyde for
eventual electron microscopy. The total amount of tissue removed
equals

approximately 5.0 g and all remaining fragments are submitted in six
tissue cassettes.

MICROSCOPIC: Fragments of cerebral cortex and underlying white matter
showing multiple, focal and diffuse infiltrates by small neoplastic
cells that in general lack differentiation. In many areas the cells
surrund individual neurons and in small sites they show some degree of
cytOplasmic differentiation which appears Similar to that of an
astrocyte. There are multiple perivascular nests of neoplastic cells.
Areas of coagulation necrosis or atypical mitosis are not readily
identified, however the general impression is that this pattern of
tissue infiltrate may represent distant extension of a rather
aggressive type of undifferentiated neoplasm.

In summary, the impression formed at the time of the intraoperative
consultation that this represents a small cell glioma with very
anaplastic features is sustained by the evidence available at this

 

time. In an attempt to further identify the genetic derivation of
these cells additional sections will be cut and reacted with various
antisera as follows: GFAP, LCA, EMA, CK—6, Synaptophysin and MIB-l.

In addition one of the samples taken for electron microscopy will be
evaluated.

An addendum will be issued when all of these are completed.

COMMENT: Additional sections were cut from several blocks and reacted
with the following antisera: LCA, EMA, CK—6, and Synaptophysin; these
are negative in all the neoplastic cells. These results are
interpreted as confirming the initial impression that the derivation
of

these cells is not from lymphocytes, neuronal elements, or epithelial
cells. GFAP is expressed by approximately 20% of the neoplastic
cells. -
MIB—l: This protein is expressed by diverse percentages of cells in
various locations; however, the mean percentage of cells expressing
this protein is estimated to be about 10%.

Sections evaluated with the electron microscope confirm the impression
that the cytoplasmic features as well as the nuclei of most neoplastic
cells are compatible with those characteristic of a neoplastic
astrocyte.

in agreement with e lagnosis o anap as 1C as rocy oma. e

involuntary delay in the issuance of this final report represents a
combination of simultaneous events including my absence from the
department for over two weeks, and the fact that the slides were
mailed

to Dr. -for consultation before dictating the addendum, and his
reply was not opportunely delivered to the pathologist on call during
my absence.

 

TISSUE COMMITTEE cons: -
BILLING CODES

 

