   

760 10 , Surgical Pathology Consultation Report
nA’ ' _. r) In

Case Number: Patient's Name:

Collect Date: MRN:
Receive Data: PHN:
Date Reported: DOBIGender:

Ordering Physician:

   

Final Diagnosis:

A. Left salpingo~oophorectomy showing:

1. Endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the ovary: No detinite surface
Component.

2. FIGO tumor histologic grade ll.

3. Detect in wall of solid and cystic tumour-surgicai correlation
necessary. but presumably area Where adherent to the pelvic side
wall-see below

4. Unremarkabte fallopian tube.

B. Right salpingo-oophorectomy showing:

1. Endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the ovary.

2. FlGO histologic tumor grade Ilitll.

3. The ovarian surface is involved by malignancy.
4. Unremarkable fallopian tube.

C. Specimen labelled "adhesions sigmoid colon" showing fibrovascular tissue
with endometriosis, negative for malignant celts.

D. Specimen labelled "adhesions left pelvis sidewall" showing fibrovascular
tissue with one surface of one section positive for a microscopic
deposit of endometriod adenocarcinoma.

E. Total hysterectomy showing:

1. Endornetn’osis of cul—de-sac, negative for malignant cells.

2. Disordered protiferative endometrium.

3. Serosal surface is unremarkable. negative for adhesions or malignant
cells.

4. Unremarkable cervix without dysplasia.

F. Specimen labelled "hepatic flexure biopsy" showing tibrovascularfatty
tissue with papillary mesothelial hyperplasia, negative for malignant
cells.

G. Specimen labelled "ornenfurn" showing extensive papillary mesothellai
hyperplasia. negative for malignancy.

H. Specimen labelled "adhesions culsde-sac" showing hemorrhagic vascular
tissue with reactive stromal cells and hemosiderin pigmentation,
features consistent with endometriosls, negative for malignant cells.

 

Final Diagnosis Comment:
The endometriod carcinoma of surface epithelial derivation may welt have arisen in endometriosis which has been obliterated. in that

there is out de sac endometriosis identified. The malignancy has some areas which are cytologicatly low grade and others that are high

 

grade cytologically. The malignancy is predominantly gland forming eg Grade I but the higherfocal ctyloglc grade would allow this to be
designated as an histologic Grade II malignancy. Note that there is definite squamous ”metaplastlc” differentiation in the malignancy as is
typical of endometrlod carcinomas.

linical Histo as Provided i) Submitting Physician:

  

?Primary epithelial vs. met ??stomac
A. Left ovary (for frozen section)

8. Right ovary

C. Adhesions sigmoid colon

D. Adhesions left pelvis sidewall

E. Uterus and cervix

F. Hepatic flexure biopsy

G. Omentum

H. Adhesion cut-de-sac

 

Specimens Received:

A: left ovary + tube

8: right ovary

C: adhesions sigmoid colon

D: adhesions teft pelvis side wall
E: uterus & cervix

F: hepatic ﬂexure biopsy

G: omentum

H: adhesion cul de sac

Gross Description:

Specimen is received in eight containers each labelled with the patient's name.

Container “A" is tabelled “left ovary" and consists of a salpingo—oophorectomy specimen weighing 330 g and the mass measuring 10 x 9 x
5 cm with attached fallopian tube measuring 5 cm long x 0.3 cm in diameter. There is a detect in the outer surface of the mass and this
defect measures 6 x 3.5 cm. it is not clear whether this defect is artifactual or real rupture of the outer surface of the tumour. The defect area
is painted with black ink. Otherwise the outer surface otthe tumour is smooth and unremarkable. The out surtace ofthe tumour is solid,
fleshy in appearance. The fallopian tube grossly looks unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

"At-A2" -t’rozen section resubmitted in toto.

"A3-A5“ -tumour

"AG—A8" -tumour in relation to the defect

“A9" -taltopian tube.

Container "B" is labelled "right ovary and fallopian tube" and consists of A right satpingo-oophoreclorny specimen weighing 1.011 g and
measuring 18 x 11 x 7 cm with an attached fallopian tube measuring 4 x 0.3 cm. The mass received as ruptured cyst has three grey—white
outer surface nodules, the largest measuring 4 cm in greatest dimension, and the smallest measuring 2cm in greatest dimension and
these outer surface nodules are painted with black ink. The cut surface of the tumour is sotict. partially cystic. The solid part is grey-white
and represents about 70% of the tumour. The inner lining of the cystic part is nodular grey-white. The fallopian tube is grossly
unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

"Bi-BS" -soiid part of the tumour

"84-85" ~cystic part of the tumour

”BB-BS" -tumour in relation to the surface nodules

"Bio" ~fallopian tube.

Container "C" is labelled "adhesions sigmoid colon“ and consists of soft tissue measuring 3 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The tissue is trisected and
submitted in toto as "(31".

Container "D" is labelled "adhesions left pelvis side wall" and consists of grey-White soft tissue measuring 3 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. The tissue is
bisected and submitted in toto as "01".

Container "E" is labelled "utenrs and cervix" and consists of a total hysterectomy specimen measuring 8.5 cm from corpus to cervix. 4.5 cm
from comu-to-cornu, 3 cm from anterior to posterior. The cervix is 2.5 cm in length. The as is slit in shape and measures 0.3 cm in
maximum dimension. The uterus has a normal uterine contour with a smooth serosal surface. The bivalved specimen shows
unremarkable cervix. The endometrium is 0.2 cm in thickness and the myomelrium is 1.8 cm in thickness. Both the endometrium and
myometrium are grossly unremarkable.

Representative sections are submitted as follows:

"E1-E2“ -anterioriposten‘or ectolendocervix

"Ea-£4” -anterior endometriumlmyometrium

“ES-56" -poslerior endometriumimyornetrium

"ET“ -cul—de—sac.

 

Container "F" is labelled "hepatic flexure biopsy" and consists of soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1 x 0.2 cm.
The tissue is submitted in toto as "F1“.

Container"G" is labelled "omentum" and consists of omental fat measuring 23 x 5.5 x 1 cm. Sectioning ofthe omenturn shows
unremarkable fat.

No nodule or ﬁrm area identiﬁed.

Representative sections are submitted as "Gt-G5".

Container "H" is labelled "adhesions cut-de-sac“ and consists 0! dark brown soft tissue measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.2 cm. The tissue is submitted
in toto as “Hf".

 

Intraoperative Consultation:

FSAIt

Gross Description: 10 cm 339 9 tom capsule, ?rupture.
This area painted black.

    

 

 

