Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
BASED ON THE PERFORMED GROSS AND MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION:

Right lung, lower lobe, lobectomy:

Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of bronchioloalveolar type, with
high nuclear grade

(3/3).

- 4.9 cm. in largest dimension.

- Pleura not involved with malignancy.

- Bronchial and vascular resection margins free of malignancy,
(Frozen section diagnosis confirmed)

- Five benign peribronchial lymph nodes, no evidence of metastatic
malignancy.

- No evidence of lymphovascular channel involvement.

AJCC cancer stage T2, N0, MX.

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

***Electronically Signed ***
, M.D.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
Lung, right lower lobe, bronchial margin, excision:
No evidence of malignancy.

, M.D.
Gross Description:
There is one container labeled with the patient's name, " " and
additionally labeled "right lower lobe, check bronchial margins". The specimen
is received without fixative and consists of a lower lobe of right lung,
measuring 16.4 x 10.7 x 4.6 cm. and weighing 230.0 gm. The pleura shows marked
anthracosis. There is a palpable mass at approximately mid portion of the lobe,
with umbilication of the overlying pleura on the lateral surface of the lobe.
This umbilicated region is inked black. The bronchovascular stumps are
identified in the hilar aspect. They are opened distally to reveal no
intraluminal lesions. Serial sections show that the mass is 5.0 cm. from the
apex of the lobe and measures 4.9 x 3.7 x 3.5 cm. It is irregularly shaped and
has a tan-gray soft cut surface with necrosis and anthracotic pigment
deposition. There is no gross invasion of associated bronchovascular
structures. Five peribronchial lymph nodes are identified, measuring from 0.7
cm. up to 1.1 cm. All lymph nodes show severe anthracosis. The bronchial margin
is shaved and submitted for frozen section. Portions of the mass and normal
lung parenchyma are also submitted for tissue banking. Representative sections
are submitted as follows: cassette "1" bronchial margin, for frozen section;
cassette "2" vascular margins; cassettes "3" to "5" mass; cassette "6" random
sections of lung; cassette "7" peribronchial lymph nodes.

Taken: -

 

