UUID: E6FE3175- 8903- 47D5- BBDI- 33F2E95C351esd
TCGA- 86- A4P7- 01A- PR

lllllllllllllullIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllEGI
lllllll llIlIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illllllll llll Ill
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Gross Description:

III
III
III

Microscopic Description:

Diagnosis Details:

Comments:

Formatted Path Reports: LUNG TISSUE CHECKLIST u/D’O”S

\W S
. adenocarcmomm. NOS 6 I

WWW”: ”l W “L “‘31”

Specimen type: Lobectomy UMP

. . _ m:
Tumor Site. Lung 9“ Q 8655!}
Tumor size: 4 x 3 x 2 cm 5”" = 'U"9‘ l'w‘“ “I“ (3*)
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, mixed subtype [ﬁr/37:3-

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated
Tumor extent: Not speciﬁed

Other tumor nodules: Not specified

Lymph nodes: Not speciﬁed

Lymphatic invasion: Not specified

Venous invasion: Not speciﬁed

Margins: Not speciﬁed

Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not speciﬁed
Additional pathologic ﬁndings: Not speciﬁed

_—__Cnmments'_Le£t-_iower

 

 

 

 

V4. 00

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T83): I .. , ____TSS identiﬁers,” ‘_ TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (interviewerName ___Completed Date: ‘
[Diagnosis Information

it Data Element: Entry Alternatives Working Instructions

 

Patiiologic Diagnosis (ALL . (“into (LOULLL/no‘ MUL—

1 Provided on initial

Provide the diagnosis} hi‘stoiogic subtypeﬁs) documented on
the initial pathology report for this Case; l f the histology for
this case is mixed, provide all listedsubtypes.

 

Pathoiogy Report [hi gut 4' gig ot/fﬁ
. . " Provide the histologic features selected on the 'l‘CGA Case
2 gitgglgétitefgmlﬁsegf Am km 0 CM.WML. Quality Control Farm. completed for this case.
for 'l'CGA, as reflected 3‘
on the CQCF:

 

 

[Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

3 Provide the reason for ‘

the discrepancy t; ( LCLCJ '
between the pathology
report and the TCGA
Ease Quality Control
Form.

Provide a- reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.

 

Name of TSS Reviewing .
4 Pathologist or
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGA,

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has beenquaiitv controlled.

 

'i‘SS- Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution Is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the

Date

Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above dim-opting» in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

 

