Operative Procedure:
Left thoracotomy, lobectomy

Specimen Received:

A' lnferior pulmonary ligament lymph node
B. Left lower lobe

C: Anterior mediastinal lymph node

D: Subcarinal lymph node

E: A-P window lymph node

F: lntra pulmonary lymph node

G: Tracheobronchial lymph node

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Lymph node, inferior pulmonary ligament:
Benign pleural tissue.

B. Lung, left lower lobe, lobectomy:

Adenocarcinoma, well differentiated with predominantly bronchioalveolar
growth pattern

Six lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/6).

See Synoptic report.

Lung cancer synoptic report (includes parts B, C, D, E, F, G)
Specimen: Lung-left lower lobe
Procedure: Lobectomy
Specimen laterality: Left
Tumor site: Left lower lobe of lung
Specimen integrity: lntact
Tumor size: 3.7 cm (greatest dimension)
Tumor focality: Unifocal
Tumor histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, with predominantly
bronchioalveolar growth pattern and focal invasion
Tumor grade: Well-differentiated
Visceral pleura invasion: No
Tumor extension: Not identified
Margins:

Bronchial margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Vascular margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Parenchymal margin: Not applicable

Parietal pleural margin: Not applicable
Chest wall margin: Not applicable
Other attached tissue margin: Not applicable

If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma:
Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 17 mm
Specify margin: Bronchial
Treatment effect: Not applicable

Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
TNM Descriptors: None known
Primarytumor(pT): p2a
Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNX
Number involved/examined: 0/13
Left lower lobe peribronchial: 0/6

Anterior mediastinal: 0/1
Subcarinal: 0/2

A-P window: 0/1
lntrapulmonary: 0/2
Tracheobronchial: 0/1

Distant metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional pathologic findings: None

C. Lymph node, anterior mediastinal, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

D. Lymph node, subcarinal, regional resection:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

E. Lymph node, A-P window, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

F. Lymph node, intrapulmonary, regional resection:
Two lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/2).

G. Lymph node, tracheobronchial, biopsy:
One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma (0/1).

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

Gross Description:
Received are seven formalin filled containers, all labeled with the patient's
name.

Part A is additionally labeled "inferior pulmonary ligament lymph node" and
consists of a single 1.1 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm pink-tan fibrofatty tissue. No

definitive lymph nodes are identified. The tissue is submitted in its entirety

in cassette A1.

Part B is additionally labeled "left lower lobe."

Specimen components and dimensions: The specimen consists of a 155 gram intact
lobe of lung with overall dimensions of 14.5 x 8.5 x 3.5 cm. The specimen is
received with multiple staple lines on one edge. The staple lines are removed
and the parenchymal surface is inked in black.

Size, appearance, and location of tumor: A 3.7 x 2.9 x 2.5 cm, roughly circular
white-tan mass appears to abut the pleural surface. The pleural surface is
umbilicated in this area. Tumor focality is unifocal.

Distance to bronchial margin: 1.7 cm
Distance to pleural surface: The mass appears to abut the pleural surface.
Number and appearance of peribronchial lymph nodes: Six peribronchial lymph
nodes up to 2.2 cm in greatest dimension are found.
Other findings: None.
Uninvolved lung: The uninvolved lung is red-brown and homogeneous.
Blocks submitted:

B1 vascular margin;

B2 bronchial margin;

B3 mass to inked parenchymal margin;

B4 mass to pleura;

B5-6 additional mass;

B7 uninvolved parenchyma;

B8 one lymph node bisected;

B9 five whole lymph nodes.

Please note, a portion of the mass was submitted for precision. Additionally, a
portion of the mass was banked with the Tissue Bank

Part C is additionally labeled "anterior mediastinal lymph node" and consists of
a 1.3 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm portion of fibrofatty tissue. The tissue is bisected to

reveal a lymph node up to 1 cm in greatest dimension. The tissue is submitted in
its entirety in cassette C1.

Part D is additionally labeled "subcarinal lymph node" and consists of a single
0.6 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm pink-tan irregular fibrofatty tissue. This is submitted in
toto in cassette D1.

Part E is additionally labeled "AP window lymph node" and consists of a single
0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm tan-brown lymph node. This is submitted in toto in cassette
E1.

Part F is additionally labeled "intrapulmonary lymph node" and consists of two
portions of pink-tan to red-brown fibrofatty tissue measuring 1.7 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm
and 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. The first tissue is trisected and submitted in its

entirety in cassette F1. The second tissue is bisected and submitted in its
entirety in cassette F2.

Part G is additionally labeled "tracheobronchial lymph node" and consists of a
single 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm tan-brown lymph node. This is submitted in its
entirety in cassette G1 .

Microscopic Description:
The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
findings.

END OF REPORT

