 

  

CGA —A6 - 2582

SPECIMEN

A. Right colon
B. Apical lymph node

CLINICAL NOTES

PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Ascending colon cancer

GROSS DESCRIPTION

16

to

A. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right

colon" is a 35 cm. segment of proximal right colon with
attached 48 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous
tan—pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon,
mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. An appendix is not identified
grossly. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.8 and 6.2 cm. in
circumference resPectively. The proximal 10 cm. of ileum is adhesed
to the cecal pouch, which on opening, contains a circumferential 9

5.5 cm. rubbery tanmwhite tumor mass. On sectioning, the tumor has

maximal thickness of 3.5 cm., grossly extending through the
muscularis to within 0.2 cm. of the inked free radial serosal
surface. The mucosa throughout the remainder of the ileum and
colonic segment is unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular
folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. No additional
abnormalities are noted. A portion is taken for tissue procurement
as requested. Several soft tan—pink to rubbery tan—white tissues in
keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 2 cm. in greatest
dimension are recovered from the attached mesentery and mesocolon.
Representative sections are submitted in 16 blocks as labeled. RS—

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 — proximal and distal margins; 2 — tumor with
adhesed portion of ileum; 3 and 4, 5 and 6 — tumor full thickness

inked free radial serosal surface (black) — points of continuity
inked orange and green respectively; 7 — tumor to proximal mucosa;

— tumor to distal mucosa; 9 — random ileum; 10 — random colon; ll —

 

GROSS DESCRIPTION

2 whole lymph nodes; 12 — 6 whole lymph nodes; 13—15 — 1 bisected

lymph node per cassette; 16 — 1 re resentative section from each of
2 grossly positive lymph nodes. _

B. Received fresh labeled "apical lymph node" is a 0.6 x

0.35 x 0.2 cmr fragment of soft to slightly rubbery
glistening to chalky golden yellow adipose tissue. A definitive
lymphoid tissue is not recovered. The specimen is submitted in toto
in one block. AS—l.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified.
Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated.

Primary tumor {pT): Tumor invades through the entire colonic wall
into the adhesed section of ileum into the muscularis propria of the
ileum, through the muscularis propria and into the submucosa of

the ileum. This is shown in slide A2 (pTéb).
Proximal margin} Negative for tumor.
Distal margin: Negative for tumor.
Circumferential (radial) margin: Not applicable.
Distance of tumor from closest margin: 10 cm from the ileal
margin.
Vascular invasion: Prominent lymphatic and venous space invasion is
identified.
Regional lymph nodes (pN): 2 of 13 lymph nodes are positive for
metastatic
carcinoma (le).
Nonelymph node pericolonic tumor: Focally present in the mesenteric
fat between the ileum and colon.
Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate (pr).
Other findings: None.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

5X1,3260F

DIAGNOSIS

Colon, right, ileocolectomy:
Invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invasive
through the entire right colonic wall and through the visceral
peritoneum into the wall of the adhesed ileum (pT4b)-
Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 2 of 13 lymph nodes {le).
The resection margins are negative for carcinoma.
Prominent lymphatic and venous space invasion is identified.

 

