 

I anus—A Referring Physician:

 

 

DOBz’ """" Agez' GenderzF > _. __ ~____ .-..-....
Ref#: I195”: provide, Group: uum:.%é%ial‘2e:iCi-_iiAc;TsN4io11rA97r;- mrmssszsezd
“ lllllllllliiii
Dale of Same: Date Received: Outpatient II I III I IIIIIIHMIIIII“I"I“m”I"IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIH"III"I"

Room: Bed: Ill llllllllllIlllllllllllllllillllllll||lllllllllllllllllll

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

)iagnosis Discrepancy

DIEQHOSIS: :VIZTSQWTumarSite

)rior

A. , C, D.) RIGHT BREAST AND AXILLARY SENTINEL LYMPH NODE,
MASTECTOMY AND SENTINEL LYMPH NODE BIOPSY:
- Multicentric invasive lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1~2.

- The area involved by invasive carcinoma measures approximately 8 cm in
diameter.

- See comment.
— Two axillary lymph nodes, no tumor present (0/2).
- This includes one sentinel lymph node and one non-sentinel lymph node.
- Resection margins are free of tumor. Invasive carcinoma is at least 1 cm
from all margins. The closest margin is the inferior, which is approximately 1 cm
from carcinoma.
- Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), classic type, low nuclear grade,
widespread throughout the right breast.
- Sites of previous biopsy identiﬁed.

 

PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING SYNOPSIS:
Type and grade (invasive): Invasive lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade 1.
Type and grade (in situ ): Lobular carcinoma in situ, low nuclear grade.
Primary tumor: pT3(m)

Regional lymph nodes: pN0(i-)(sn). |CD ‘73 ‘ y .
Distant metastasis: Not applicable. Carcrnoma Iovaaf, I n Fr H'f'oﬁﬁrj
Pathologic stage: IIB. f back;
Lymphovascular invasion: Not identified. . '
Margin status: Negative (R0). 5 ”6 bfcas—L I "SOS C60. q 3 M
q, _
COMMENT: In addition to the two areas of invasive lobular carcinoma previously £0
biopsied, there is a large area of invasive lobular carcinoma in roughly the center of
the breast that corresponds to the abnormal area detected in the right breast MRI
dated 1(the suspicious area measured 8.1 cm in diameter on MRI). Grossly,
this was an ill-defined area relatively denser than the surrounding breast tissue.
8. LEFT BREAST, PROPHYLACTIC MASTECTOMY:
Case #2 H " ‘ '7 "“‘V’ Page 1
Printed: This renori I‘ﬁanI'M... (FINAL)

Phone:

i _-. , . Patient Nam
Pathology Report - Page 1/6 J .. - Page 1

 

Racine“. M 1

«vul— "' '

 

 

 

Case #:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

- Focal atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH, in lower outer quadrant).
— Subareolar duct ectasia.

- Focal fibrosis, cysts and mild usual type ductal hyperplasia.

- Discrete focus of scar tissue in central inferior breast.

Breast Invasive Tumor Staging Information
(AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook. . and CAP protocol.
This staging also incorporates:

Previous biopsy: ’

Breast profile:

Case #2 ‘ , ‘ ‘ Page 2
Printed: This report continues... (FINAL)

Acct No. ( Patient Nan'
Pathology Report - Page 2/6 , Page 2

 

 

 

Case #:

 

 

Specimen type:
Specimen procedure:
Lymph node sampling:
Specimen integrity:
Specimen laterality:
Specimen size:

INVASIVE TUMOR FEATURES:
Invasive tumor size:
Invasive tumor site:

Invasive tumor locality:

Histologic type:

Total Nottingham Grade:
Tubule formation:
Nuclear Pleomorphism:
Mitotic count for Nottingham:

Mitotic count:
Lymphatic invasion:

MARGIN STATUS FOR INVASIVE COMPONENT:
Distance of tumor from margins:
Closest margin:
Other margins:

DUCTAL CARCINOMA lN-SITU (DCIS):
LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN-SITU (LOIS):

Skin:
Nipple:

Skeletal Muscle:

INVASIVE PATHOLOGIC TUMOR STAGING (pTNM)
Primary tumor (p1):
Regional lymph nodes (pN):
Distant metastasis (pM):
Tumor Stage:

RECEPTOR STATUS AND HERZ/NEU:

Estrogen receptors:
Progesterone receptors:
Her2/neu:

Case #2 . vi
Printed:

Phone

Acct Nt

Pathology Report - Page 3/6

T otal breast.
Mastectomy.
Sentinel lymph node.
Intact specimen.
Right.

24.4 x 21.8 x 6.4 cm.

Approximately 8 cm in diameter

Central, In addition to areas previously biopsied
(12:00 and 9:30 aspects of right breast).

Multicentric

Invasive lobular carcinoma.

1 of 3.

3 of 3.

12 of 3.

1 of 3.

i mitosis in 10 high power ﬁelds.
Not identiﬁed.

Negative.

Approximately 1 cm.

Inferior

All other margins at least 1 cm from tumor.

Absent.
Present. extensive.

Unremarkabie.

Focal subareolar duct ectasia. Subareolar foci of
invasive lobular carcinoma present.

Not applicable.

pT3
pNO(i-)(sn).
Not applicable.
I I B

. Biomarkers performed on
two separate core needle biopsies.

95%.
80% and 50%, respectively.
1+.
Page 3
This "smurf nnnfinuaa .. (FINAL)
Patient Namz

- Page 3

 

I Option.-

 

Case #2 . _ ""

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Ki-G'I proliferative index: 1-2%.

Signed by
M

Source of Specimen:

A. Sentinel lymph node;SentineI node #1, Right breast
B. Breast;Lett

C. Breast;Right breast-additional inferior margin

D. Breast;Right

Clinical HistOEy/Ogerative Dx:
Neoplasm of right breast.

Intraogerative Diagnosis:
A. Sentinel node #1 right breast: ‘ touch prep A diagnosis: Negative for carcinoma. (Dr. ,. The
intraoperative interoretation(s) was/were performed and rendered at ‘ ‘

Gross Description:
A. The specimen is labeled sentinel node #1 right breast and is received without ﬁxative. It consists

of a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm lymph node. It is serially sectioned and touch imprints are obtained. The node is
submitted for permanent section in cassette A1. r

B. The specimen is labeled left breast tissue and is received in formalin. It consists of a mastectomy
specimen which weighs 1258 grams. A black suture marks lateral. With this orientation. the specimen

Case #: Page 4

Printed: . _ _- This report continues... (FINAL)
Phone:

MR No. Acct No.~ ’ Patient Narr
Pathology Report ~ Page 4/6 W i - Page 4

 

 
   

 

Case if:

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

measures 20.5 cm from superior to inferior, 29 cm from medial to lateral, and 4.5 cm from superﬁcial to
deep. There is a broad overlying semicircular portion of ten skin measuring 23 x 14.5 cm. in the medial
inferior edge of the skin, there is a 4.5 cm areola with a protuberant 1.4 cm nipple. The skin is otherwise
unremarkable. The anterior-superior margin is inked blue, the anterior-inferior margin is inked green, and
the posterior margin, which partially consists of smooth facial appearing tissue, is inked black. The
specimen is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal iobuiated fatty tissue and scattered tan-white
fibrous parenchyma. In the central inferior portion of the breast, along the superior medial edge of the
areola, there is an area of ﬁbrous parenchyma which has a slightly stellate appearance but is soft and
rubbery. This stellate area is 2 cm in maximum dimension. it is 4 cm or greater from the deep, inferior,
and superior margin and is 2 cm from the closest skin. The breast parenchyma in the lower outer quadrant
has a rough fine nodular feel but there are no areas which have a stellate or retracted appearance. There
are no lymph nodes identified within the lateral portion of the excision. Representative sections are
submitted. Section summary:

B1) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple,

82-83) stellate ﬁbrous parenchyma central inferior breast,

B4) representative upper inner quadrant,

85) lower inner quadrant,

86) upper outer quadrant,

87-88) lower outer quadrant, including representative lower outer quadrant deep margin.

C. The specimen is labeled right breast tissue, additional inferior margin and is received in formalin. it
consists of two irregular fragments of lobulated fatty tissue with an aggregate weight of 52 grams. The
larger specimen measures 10.5 x 4.8 x 1.6 cm and the smaller specimen measures 4.2 x 2.8 x 1.7 cm. The
surgical margins of these specimens are not designated. The larger specimen is inked black and the
smaller specimen is inked green. Serial sections of both specimens reveal predominantly lobulated soft to
pale yellow fatty tissue without palpable areas of nodularity. Representative sections of the larger

specimen are submitted in cassettes C1-03. Representative sections of the smaller specimen are submitted
in cassette C4. Following review of the initial slides, additional sections are submitted in CS-CQ.

D. The specimen is labeled right breast tissue and is received without ﬁxative. it consists of a mastectomy
specimen weighing 1.285 grams. A black Suture is present and is not otherwise designated but is arbitrarily
assumed to represent lateral. \Mth this orientation, the specimen measures 24.4 cm from medial to lateral,
21.8 cm from superior to inferior, and 6.4 cm from superﬁcial to deep. There is an overlying broad

elliptical portion of ten skin which measures 24 x 16 cm. in the medial inferior skin, there is a 4 cm areola
and 1.5 cm protuberant nipple. The skin shows two small areas of hemorrhagic discoloration which are
located 3 and 3.5 cm superior to the nipple. No other skin lesions are identiﬁed. The anterior~superior
margin is inked blue, the anterior- inferior margin is inked green, and the posterior margin, which consists
partially of smooth facial tissue, is inked black.

The breast is serially sectioned at close intervals to reveal a firm steilate appearing tumor mass within the
central lateral breast, approximately 4.5 cm lateral to the nipple. This stellate area is 1.2 cm in maximum
dimension. Centrally, within this stellate mass is a biopsy site clip. This stellate mass is 3.5 cm from the
closest inferior margin, 11 cm from the closest superior margin, 14 cm from the closest medial margin, and
11 cm from the closest lateral margin. it is 3.5 cm from the closest deep margin and approximately 3 cm

Case #t Page 5
Printed: This reoort continues... (FlNAL)

Phone:

Patient Nari

Pathology Report - Page 5/6 ) - Page 5

Case #2 “ﬂ"

 

 

FINAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

from the skin. A second palpably ﬁrm and stellate appearing mass is located in the superior central breast
approximately 4 cm superior to the nipple. This second area measures 0.8 cm in maximum dimension. it
is 4 cm from the closest deep margin, 3.5 cm from the closest skin, 6.5 cm from the closest interior margin.
9 cm from the closest superior margin. 10 cm from the closest medial margin, and greater than to cm from
the lateral margin. A twisted biopsy site clip is also embedded within this steliate mass.

The central breast tissue has an ill-deﬁned ﬁrm area measuring approximately 7-8 cm in diameter. This
area of ﬁrmness involves multiple quadrants of the breast. in the far lateral portion of the breast, there is a
ﬁrm 1.8 cm lymph node.

Representative tissue of the central lateral stellate mass is retained for research purposes Representative
sections are submitted. Section summary:

01) nipple and tissue just deep to nipple, ' *

02-03) complete cross-section of central lateral palpable mass. ’

04) additional section of superior edge of central lateral tumor,

05-06) sections of central superior tumor mass (biopsy site clip in cassette 05).
07) central superior deep margin.

D8) central lateral deep margin,

09) representative upper inner quadrant,

010) representative medial lower inner quadrant.

011) representative lateral lower inner quadrant.

012) representative lateral lower inner quadrant and closest anterior inferior margin.
01 3) upper Outer quadrant,

014) lower outer quadrant.

015-016) lymph node lateral portion or excision. i

Microscopic Description:
A. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis

rendered. lmmunohistochemical stain: , showing no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
Appropriate positive and negative controls reviewed.

B. Microscopic sections have been eXamined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

C. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis
rendered.

0. Microscopic sections have been examined. The microscopic ﬁndings are reﬂected in the diagnosis

rendered.
C688 #1 Page 6
Printed: , FNI‘l N? DCW‘RT (FINAL)
Phone:
MR No. - Acct No. —'- Patient Nan

Pathology Report — Page 6/6 t . ‘V Page 6

