uuro:szrse7ss-s19c-45AE-9A9r-s7sscse1rssr
TCGA— R-A7oG-a1A-PR R acted

Q ed
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lll
llllllllll Illlllll II II ”llllHilll'llllllllllllllilm

III III [III II
|||||||||ll||l||||l||Illlllllllll llll Illlllllllllllllllll

 

‘ Surgical Pathologyl w Final Results]
Surgical Pathology Final

CASE NUMBER:

DlAGNOSlS:

 

i. Adrenal gland, left, adrenalectomy: Pheochromocytorna. Adjacent
adrenal cortex shows thickening suggestive of hyperplasia. See Note.

2. Thyroid, left lobe. hemithyroidectomy: Colloid nodular disease.
3. Thyroid, right lobe, hemithyroldectomy: Colloid nodular disease.

4. Thyroid, right lobe, inferior nodule. biopsy: Benign reactive lymph
node, no tumor seen.

_ >5. Thymus, right, excision: Unremarkeble thymic tissue.

8. Thymus, left. excision: Unremarkable thymic tissue

NOTE: lmmunostaining shows the lesional cells are positive for
chromogranin and synaptophysin. 8100 stains sustentacular cells.

lmmunoperoxidase and in~situ hybridization tests performed here and
used for diagnosis were developed and their performance characteristics
determined by the Laboratory of Pathology, . They have not been
cleared or approved by the us. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA
has also determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (CLlA) as qualified to perform high complexity
clinical laboratory testing.

CLlNlCAL lNFORMATlON: Allocate Order to Protocol; Brief
Clinical History: L

adrenal nodule consistent w/ pheochromocytoma. large multinodular
goiters, hypercalcemia Specimen Taken For Protocol: 01 - Yes

PROCEDURE: Pris—Operative Diagnosis: left adrenal pheoohromocytoma,
vgoiters,
hyperparathyroidism Post~Operative Diagnosis: same Operative
Findings: large goiters

SPEClMENS SUBMiTTED: 1. ADRENAL GLAND. LEFT
2. THYROlD, LEFT LOBE

3. THYROlD, RIGHT LOBE

4. THYROlD, RlGHT LOBE. inferior Nodule

5. THYMUS, Right

6. THYMUS, Left

GROSS DESCRlPTlONI
t urinal-initial Patient Entbi‘tazntisr l fneninmnxczi 'iimioszirc is ggrniiélnwci $5,; rill: this; in i'zimg Act, 2:!“ £11115.

Requested By: ,, . W ‘ Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

"adrenal; The specim‘en'is‘serially- sectionedthroughout.and..suhmitted

 

Siggical 1’3le

1. Received fresh in a container labeled with the patient’s name,
medical record number, and Left adrenal is a left adrenal gland with
associated fat measuring 8 x 3 x 2.2 cm and weighing 15.6 grams. The
external surface is inked black. Within the mid gland is pink fleshy
medullary nodule measuring 1.9 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm rimmed by up to 0.2 cm
thick yellow to orange cortex. The remaining cortex is focally
thickened up to 0. cm and mottled yellow. orange and red. Gross
photographs are taken. Approximately 50% of thenodule and
approximately 1 x l x 0.4 cm of normal-appearing gland are procured for
' " ' ’aboratory by . ‘ " ' ‘ at

=. the remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin and
submitted to Pathology for permanent. The specimen is received in
Pathology and matches the above description. The specimen is
uncriented. it has been inked black on the external surface and has
been serially sectioned throughout. There is a nodular area in the mid

in consecutive white cassettes labeled with cassettes and
corresponding to the nodule from which procurement took place. The
specimens are all in consecutive, except for the specimens in and
which were received fragmented.

2. ”Thyroid left“. it consists of a left thyroidectomy specimen

measuring 10 x 6.5 x 5.5 cm and weighing 158 grams. it is oriented

with a stitch marking the left superior and another stitch which is

longer and believed to represent lateral. The specimen appears to
contain at least 3 distinct nodules, the largest measuring 7 cm in

greatest dimension. the second measuring 5 cm in greatest diameter and
a third measuring 4.2 cm in greatest dimension diameter. The external
surface is inked black. The specimen is sectioned revealing a
variegated brown to tan normal-appearing thyroid parenchyma with areas
of yellow to tan nodulan'ty. The largest individual nodule measures 5

cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted in
white cassettes labeled . with corresponding to more
superior region and L corresponding to more inferior regions.

3. "Right thyroid‘. it consists of a hemithyroidectomy specimen
measuring 8.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm and weighing 61 grams. The projection
from lateral edge of the specimen is possibly a pyramidal lobe
measuring 3 x 2 x 1 cm. The external surface of the specimen is inked
black. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing areas of
normal-appearing brown thyroid parenchyma and areas of yellow to tan
nodularity. The largest nodule measures approximately 2.0 cm in
greatest dimension. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted
in white cassettes labeled with . being most inferior, being
superior, and la representative section of the pyramidal lobe.

4. “Right inferior node.“ it consists of a ten to grey soft tissue
fragment measuring 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm which his wrapped in a tea bag
and entirely submitted in a white cassette labeled

5. "Right thymus". it consists of a yellow to tan soft tissue fragment
measuring 7.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. it is serially sectioned revealing a
homogeneous yellow tan cut surface with occasional areas of hemorrhage.

1.4.iitirltzni'izii tiniest: lntonnniion. iizzzluthurmrtl disclosing i~ prohibited is}: tie: lkt

Requested By:

total :‘rixr‘:

Final Reslggl

t“; i-Xiit iii 3‘3“]. 305'

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

 

 

L Surgical Pathology . .. , ‘,

 

Representative sections are taken and placed into white cassettes
labeled

6, "Left thymus". it consists of a yellow to tan fibroadipose tissue

soft tissue fragment measuring 5.2 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm. It is serially
sectioned and revealing a homogeneous yellow to tan cut surface. it is
serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in white
cassettes labeled

Gross Description dictated by

No consultants
Accessioned:
Einal Report Signed ‘Out:

<Resident Signature>
r‘ 2.. - - _.. . . .

<Sign Out Dr. Signature>

Date Report Signed:

Diagnosis Discrepancy

t. rxniirlitai‘i»; thinner lrrrurrmtiun. llnanthnr igcrl riiﬁclosurc is t>rt‘rii'.l\ii=,'ri lug its: ii:

Requested By: l

Final Resuris]

  
 
 

*2,”

     

site DlSUeDanW

3 iii E’rivnw rim of gig-:1

Do not ﬁle in Medical Record

