_ Encounter Date:

 

 

Results SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order
Patient Info
Patient Name Sex DOB

Results

 

UUID12A93BBE1 - 5291-4BOB-BA41-14DZC47E
TCGA-X3-A864-91 - “F2

’ A PR Redacted
s ecimen #,- IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllllHlllllllllllll||l|
sﬁbmitting Physician: IlllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
I”lllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

 

.3:

 

FINAL DIAGNOSIS

Left testis, orchiectomy - Mixed germ cell tumor, composed of seminoma

(40%), yolk sac (35%), embryonal carcinoma (20%) and teratoma (5%). :7 ”VAL Q,5£Q

- The tumor is confined to the testis.

— Intratubular germ cell neoplasia.

— Lymphovascular space invasion is not identified.

— Rete testis, epididymis, and spermatic cord, negative.

— All surgical margins including spermatic cord margin are negative for

malignancy.
1er 0 .5

W

Tumor Focality: Unifocal
Tumor Size: 5.8 x 5.2 x 3.5 cm.

Macroscopic Extent of Tumor: (select all that apply)
Confined to the testis

Histologic Type: Mixed germ cell tumor (seminoma (45%), yolk sac (35%)
embryonal carcinoma (20%), teratoma (5%)

Margins:
Spermatic Cord Margin: Uninvolved by tumor
Other Margin(s): UninvOlved by tumor

Microscopic Tumor Extension: (select all that apply)
None of the above

Lymph‘Vascular Invasion: Absent
Serum Tumor Markers: (S)

AFP elevation

beta-ECG elevation

Additional Pathologic Findings: Intratubular germ cell neoplasia

Pathologic Staging (pTNM)

MI) W 95855
$213322? Orchiectomy Sdﬁx milk) N05 abg‘a
Specimen Laterality: Left 9% :) 4/51/14

I

QWFUHUNAH
Boa.

Page 1 of 3

 

_ Bummer Date:

Primary Tumor: (pT) pTl: Tumor limited to the testis and epididymis without

vascular/lymphatic invasion; tumor may invade tunica albuginea but not
tunica vaginalis

Regional Lymph Nodes: (pNI pNX: Cannot be assessed

Distant Metastasis: (pM) pMX

(Electronic Signature)

 

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED
A: LEFT TESTIS

CLINICAL DATA
TESTI CA

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received in formalin at the surgical desk is a specimen labeled "left
testis". It consists of a testicle attached to a segment of spermatic cord.
The testis weighs 121.4 grams, and measures 8 x 5.5 X 3.7 cm. The spermatic
cord measures 10 cm in length. After bivalving the testis, a 5.8 x 5.2 x
3.5 cm mass is identified. It is observed to replace approximately 90% of
the testicular parenchyma. There is a rim of normal appearing tan colored
parenchyma on the inferior pole of the testis. The mass is solitary and
heterogeneous, showing tan colored mucinous areas with small cysts that
measure up to 0.5 cm, necrosis, white-tan rubbery areas and hemorrhagic
areas. The tumor does not involve the tunica albuginea or vaginalis. The
epididymis is not grossly involved by neoplasm. Neoplasm does not involve
the spermatic cord. Sections are submitted as follows: A1 distal spermatic
cord (shave margin), A2 mid spermatic cord, A3 proximal spermatic cord, A4
mass in relation to tunica vaginalis, A5 mass in relation to tunica
albuginea, A6 mass in relation to normal parenchyma, A7—A9 additional
representative sections of mass, A10 representative sections of mucinous
area with small cyst, A11 representative section of hemorrhagic areas, A12
representative sections epididymis in relation to mass.

 

Date of Procedure:
Date of Receipt:
Submitted by:
Location:

Test performed by:

Lab and Collection

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order on g - - Lab and Collection Information
Result History 7
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order 9_n_ — Order Result Historv Report.
Result Information
Result Date and Time Status Provider Stems
Final result Reviewed

 

This result is currently not released to

Display Full Result Report

Encounter Date: _

 

Display Order Report

 

Page 3 of 3

n4

 

