SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-tdenﬂﬁed Specimen Code: —

Patient Age/Sex -/ F

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: 4L

Part B: 7

Part C: 4R

Part D: 2R

Part E: R12

Part F: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE

Part G: RIGHT LOWER LOBE MARGIN

Part H: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
PULMONARY ARTERIAL MARGIN

Part I: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE BRONCHIAL
MARGIN

Part J: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
PULMONARY VEIN MARGIN

Part K: R11
Part L: R12
Part M: LEVEL 7
Part N: 4R

Part 0: RIGHT MIDDLE LOBE
ADDITIONAL LOWER LOBE MARGINS

 

Page 1 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Final Diagnosig
1. Lymph nodes, 4L, 7, 4R, 2R, R12, excision (A-E) ~ Lymph nodes with anthracosls negative for
nebplasm. -

2. Right lung, middle lobe, lobectomy (F) - Adenocarclnoma with solid (60%), acinar (20%) and
crlbrIfOrm (20%) patterns. -
- Centrilobular emphysema.

3. Right lung. lower lobe, margin, excision (G) ~ Detached cluster of malignant cells consistent with
adenocarclnoma.

4. Right lung, middle lobe, pulmonary arterial margin, excision (H) - Atypical cells of uncertain
clinical significance present in lumen.

5. Lung, middle lobe, bronchlai margin, excision (l) - Segment of bronchial wall with no diagnostic
alterations.

6. Right lung, middle lobe, pulmonary vein margin, excision (J) Detached cluster of atypical cells of
uncertain clinical significance.

7. Lymph node, R11, R12, level 7, 4R, excision (K-N) — Lymph nodes with anthracosis. negative for
neoplasm.

8. Lung, middle lobe, additional lower lobe margin, excision (O) - Lung parenchyma, negative for
neoplasm. " -.

 

Page 2 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
2. An lmmunohlstochemical panel was performed revealing that the tumor cells are positive for CAM 5.2 and

TTFut. Focal positivity is noted with synaptcphysin. Tumorai cells are negative for chromogranln, p63, and
CD56. Mitotic activity ls approximately 7 mitoses per 10 high-power field. The morphologlc findings along with
lmmunohistochemlcal profile are in keeping with an adenocarclnoma of the lung. Clear cell change and focal
slgnet ring cell patterns, as can be seen in lung adenocarclnomas,qa are present. This tumor will be sent for
EGFR mutational analysis and the results of those studies reported as an addendum.

Tumor Location: Right middle lobe
Tumor Size: 4.1 x 4 x 3.7 cm
Vascular invasion: Absent

. Lymphatic invasion: Absent
Bronchial Margin: Negative

\

Vascular Margin: Rare clusters of tumor cells are present in the perlvascular soft tissue of the pulmonary vein
margin (Part J) but not within the vessel lumen. The pulmonary artery margin of excision (Part H) contains
atypical cells within the lumen but this is interpreted as negative.

Parenchymal Margins: The final lower lobe margin of excision is negative for neoplasm (Part 0).

Pleura/Soft Tissue Margin: Negative
Pathologlc Stage (AJCC): pTZa N0, Stage iB.

GENERAL COMMENT

Part H and J: Both of these specimens contain detached clusters of atypical cells. The cells in Part H are
present within a lumen of the vessel and the cells in Part J are outside of the vessel in a detached cluster. in
neither case is there definitive neoplasm present in the frozen section slide. These margins are interpreted as

negative for neoplasm.
ANALYTE SPEClFlC REAGENT (ASR) DiSCLAlMER
This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the

he US. Food and Drug Administration has not approved or cleared
this test; however, FDA clearance or approval is not currently required for clinical use.

Procedure: EGFR Mutation Analysis Re Status: Ordered
Text: {Not Entered)

 

Page 3 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

lntraoperative Diagnosis:
A. Negative for tumor

8. Negative for carcinoma

O. Negative for carcinoma

D. Negative for carcinoma

E. Negative for carcinoma

F. Vascular margln‘deslgnated by the surgeon - negative for tumor
G. Atypical cells present, suspicious for cancer

H. Atypical cells present in lumen of uncertain clinical significance
l. Negative for tumor

J. Negative for tumor

0. Negative for tumor

Clinical Diagnosis:
LUNG CA

 

Page 4 of 6

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:
A. Received fresh at the frozen desk, labeled-ls a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm single piece of black—brown
nodule. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in A1.

8. Received fresh at the frozen desk labeled .are multiple fragments of tan—black soft tissue
measuring 2 x 1.9 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section in
one cassette labeled B1. The remainder is totally submitted for permanent sections In one cassette
labeled B2.

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk. labeled .is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm black—brown soft tissue
fragment. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in one cassette labeled C1.

D. Received fresh at the frozen desk, labeled -ls a 1.6 x 1.7 x 0.4 cm soft tissue fragment. The
specimen is totally submitted in one cassette labeled D1.

E. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled- it consists of a single piece of brown-
red nodule that measures 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. Totally submitted for frozen section in cassette E1.

F. Received in formalin labeled—ls a 104.1 gram lobectomy specimen of the middle
lobe of the right lung (10.5 x 6.0 x 4.3 cm) and ronchlal remnant (0.3 cm in length and 0.5 cm in
diameter). A suture line is removed and the parenchyma ls inked orange. The pleural surface is inked
blue. A 4.1 x 4 x 3.7 cm poorly circumscribed firm gray-white mass is identified at <0.1 cm from the
pleura, 0.2 cm from the parenchymal margin. 0.3 cm from the bronchial margin. The tumor causes
retraction of the overlying pleura, but does not grossly invade through the pleura, which has a smooth
and glistening surface. There is a fibrous pleural scar with pleural detachment (3.5 x 3 x 0.2 cm)
extending to the resection margin. A firm dark brown area of parenchymal censoiidatlcn is present
adjacent to the tumor. Also, received is a 2.5 x 1.2 x 1 cm additional piece of white-tan tissue.
RepresentatIVe sections are submitted as follows: F1 frozen section of vascular margin stained with Diff
~Quick, F2 bronchial margin, F3 additional vascular margins, F4-F6 tumor in relation to pleural surface
(area of retraction), F7—F8 tumor in relation to parenchymal margin of resection and pleural surface with
area offibrosis, F9 tumor in relation to bronchus, F10 tumor in relation to Vessels". F11 tumor with
uninvolved parenchyma, F12 uninvolved parenchyma, F13 parenchyma with area of consolidation, F14
representative section of additional segment.

G. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled_ it consists of
multiple fragments of red-brOWn soft tissue that measures in aggregate 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. The
specimen is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette G1.

H. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled
- it consists of a single piece of vessel with lumen that measures 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The
specimen is totally submitted for frozen section evaluation in cassette H1.

 

Page 5 of 6

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description: . . ,
l. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled— it
consists of a single piece of bronchus that measures 1.4 x 0.9 x 0.4 cm. The specimen is totally

submitted for frozen section In cassette l1.

J. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeie_lt
consists of a single piece of vascular margin that measures 0.3 x .3 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally
submitted for frozen section evaluation as J1.

K. Received fresh is a tan—gray nodule resembling a lymph node measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. Totally
submitted in one cassette.

L. Received fresh are four tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.3 to 1.0 cm.
The largest nodule is totally submitted in L1. The remaining three nodules are totally submitted in L2.
Also received in the same container are segments of ten soft membranous tissue measuring 1.6 x 1.2 x
0.2 cm. The larger segment of soft tissue Is sectioned into three pieces and totally‘submltted in L3. The
smaller membranous segment of tissue is sectioned into two pieces and totally submitted in L4.

M. Received in fermaiin are four tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes rangihg‘inlsize‘fr‘olm 0.3 to
2.1 cm. The largest nodule is totally submitted in M1. The second largest noddiejljs‘ietany submitted in
M2, The remaining two nodules are totally submitted in M3. ' ' ‘

N. Received fresh are three tan-gray nodules resembling lymph nodes ranging in size-from 0.3 to 2.5
cm. The largest nodule is bisected and totally submitted In N1-N2. The second largest nodule is totally
submitted In N3. The smallest nodule is totally submitted in N4.

0. The specimen is received fresh at the frozen desk labeled
and consists of a 3.5 x 1 x 0.6 cm segment of lung parenchyma with two staple lines. After
removing the staple lines, the specimen is totally submitted for frozen section in 01.

Microscopic:
(Not Entered}

 

 

Page 6 of 6

