LABORATORY MEDICINE PROGRAM

UUID:CE63F6A7-D7ID-‘396-9401-2157AE6125FE

TCGA-EM-ABOS-BlA-PR

Reda

llllllIllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
l l ll llll llllllllllllllllllll lllll l l I II II l I ll Ill II I i H II llll Ill

cted
Ill

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

   

Patient Name:
MRN:
DOB:

Gender.
HCN: .
Ordering MD:

Copy To: .

 

 

Accession
Collected:
Received:

Rm... —

'4 h-rll
gag nesis Olsrrepancy

 
 

 

Specimenlsl Received

1. Parathyroid: Left Biopsy, Lower

2. Thyroid: Total thyroid'tie upper pole leﬂ lobe
3. Parathyroid: Left lower parathyroid specimen #2

B

Diagnosis

r

vimdl y {ulnar Site Discrepancy

nMAmEFEEV‘_—“—_~
Emlignancy Hislory
{pal/Synchronous Primary 10“

all is[ dc]:

H

 
 
 
 

  
 

 

     
 

 

 

1. No pathological diagnosis: Soft tissue. site listed as "left lower parathyroid", biopsy.

2. Multifocal papillary carcinoma, dominant follicul
degeneration and reactive atypia; fowl

No pathological diagnosis: Lymph nodes, 3, left perithyroidal
No pathological diagnosis: Parathyroid. left SUperior
No pathological diagnosis: Thymus

-Total thyroidectomy specimen. See Microscopic Description.

3. No pathological diagnosis: Parath

ar variant 1.3 cm, right; follicular nodular disease with extensive
mild reactive C-cell hyperplasia: Thyroid

yroid. site listed as “left lower parathyroid Specimen #2', biopsy. See Microscopic

 

Description.
[a 1) - a ’3
Synoﬂc Data ‘ t I I “it ﬂrw'aju) VWM
. 5 WWI P W ' £3 49/3

Procedure: Total thyrordectomy

Received: Fresh ~ I. . a( C73 . «7

Specimen integrity: Intact “SH; ' ’ 3 i ‘1’ N

Specimen Size: Right lobe: 01/ ’7’ 3‘
6.0 cm
3.1 cm
1.8 cm
Left lobe:
6.3 cm
2.9 cm
2.0 cm
Isthmus +l- pyramidal lobe:
2.2 cm '
1.1 cm
0.6 cm

Specimen Weight: 38.7 g

i Page 1 of3

Tumor Focality:

— Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

Multifocal. bilateral

--------------- DOMiNANTTUMOR—--_-—-------—-

- Tumor Laterality:
Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:

Histologic Grade:
Margins:

Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular invasion:
Perineural invasion:
Extrathyroidai Extension:
--------------- SECOND
Tumor Laterality:

Tumor Size:

Histologic Type:

Histdlogic Grade:
Margins:

Tumor Capsule:

Tumor Capsular invasion:
Lymph-Vascular invasion:
Pen'neural invasion:
Extrathyroidal Extension:
TNM Descriptors:
Primary Tumor (pT):

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN):
Distant Metastasis (pM):
Additional Pathologic Findings:

Ancillary Studies:

Right lobe
Greatest dimension: 1.3cm
Additional dimension: 1.1 cm
Additional dimension: 1.1 cm
Papillary carcinoma. follicular variant
Follicular architecture
Other architecture: focal trabecuiar architecture.
Classical cytomorphoiogy
Not applicable
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Totally encapsulated
Present, extent minimal
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
TUMOR ------------ ~—
Left lobe
Greatest dimension; 0. 8cm
Papillary carcinoma, follicular variant
Follicular architecture
Classical cytomorphology
Not applicable
Margins uninvolved by carcinoma
Totally encapsulated
Not idenliﬁed
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed
Not identiﬁed '
to (multiple primary tumors)
pT‘ib: Tumor more than 1 cm but not more than 2 cm
the thyroid
pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis
Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 3
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Not applicable
Adenomatoid noduiels) or Nodular follicular disease
Parathyroid gland(s), within normal limits
C-celi hyperplasia
Other. Multiple additional
in right and left lobes. Th
Type: iHC
Results: Calicitonin stains foci of mild reactive C-oeii hyperplasia. The dominant
nodule is positive for thyroglobulin and negative for calcitonin. monoclonal CEA and
chromogranin.

in greatest dimension, limited to

papillary microcarcinomas identiﬁed, measuring up to 0.3 cm,
ymus with no pathological diagnosis.

'Pathologic Staging is based on AJCCIUlCC TNM, 7th Edition

 

Electronically veriﬁed by:

 

Gross Description

 

Page20f3

- Surgical Pathology Consultation Report ‘

1. The specimen labelled with the patient's name and as "left biopsy lower" consists of a piece of tissue that measures
0.3 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
1A frozen tissue resubmitted

 

 

2. The specimen labeled with the patients name and as “total thyroid tie upper pole left lobe" consists of a thyroid gland
that is oriented with suture on upper left lobe and weighs 38.7 g. The right lobe measures 6 cm Si x 3.1 cm ML x 1.8 cm
AP. the left lobe measures 6.3 cm Si x 2.9 cm ML x 2 cm AP and the isthmus measures 2.2 cm Si x 1.1 cm ML x 0.6 cm
AP. The external surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions and are painted with blue dye. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes
are identiﬁed grossly. The mid to lower pole of the right lobe contains 3 delineated nodule. the largest homogeneous and
solid. T1, measures 1.3 cm Si x 1.1 cm ML x 1.1 cm AP. The upper mid to lower pole of the left lobe contains multiple
delineated nodules, the largest partly solid and partly colloidal, T2, measures 1.0 cm Si x 1.2 cm ML x 1.1 cm AP. The
remainder of the thyroid tissue is grossly unremarkable. Sections ofthe 2 largest nodules and normal tissue are stored
frozen. The remainder of the specimen is submitted as follows:

2A-J right lobe. superior to inferior

2K isthmus .

2L-V left lobe, superior to inferior

3. The specimen labelled with the patients name and as "left ioWer parathyroidspecimen #2" consists of a piece of
tissue that measures 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. it is frozen for intraoperative consultation.
31%- frozen tissue resubmitted _

Qgicg Section Diagnosis .
1. Parathyroid (Left, lower): Dx 081A, '1A deeper. Fibroadipose tissue, no deﬁnite parathyroid tissue identiﬁed
(deeper levels done).

3.‘ Parathyroid (Left, lower): Dx 033A: Parathyroid tissue present.

Microscopic Description

2. There is focal very mild C—oeli hyperplasia which represents a reactive phenomenon due its exclusive association with
underlying prominent follicular epithelial cell proliferation‘s.

3. Parathyroid tissue is conﬁrmed to be present in the frozen section slides; however upon sectioning from the parafﬁn
block. the tissue is exhausted and only soft tissue remains. ~

 

 

