UUID: A1CF42EF- 92A6- 4214- 3325- 7C71F665EFDéd
TCGA- GV- ASJZ- 01A- PR

III II IlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III ' ‘
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|I|IIII||IIIIIIIIIIIIII|IIII||III|IIIII

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

De-Identiﬁed Specimen Code_" 7 . 7.

Patient Age/Sex ‘ l M

SPECIMEN SUBMITTED:

Part A: LEFT DISTAL URETER

Part B: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Part C: RIGHT DISTAL URETER

Part D: FINAL URETHRAL MARGIN
Part E: BLADDER AND PROSTATE
Part F: LEFI' DISTAL URETER #2

Part G: RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES
Part H: RIGHT COMMON LYMPH NODES
Part I: LEFT COMMON LYMPH NODES
Part J: LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES
Part K: PRESACRAL LYMPH NODES

mAI I0 3
CW, WWW: KIM/3
3h é/daw N05 CM"

[J/l—(lll

  

Initials

my

 

Page 1 of 10

 

I SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Final Dlagnosls
1. Left distal ureter, biopsy (A) - Atypical urothelial cells.

2. Left pelvic lw'nph nodes. excision (B) - Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving one lymph node.

3. Right distal ureter and ﬁnal urethral margin, biopsies (C. D) — Negative for neoplasm.

4. Bladder, excision (E) - invasive poorly differentiated urothelial carcinoma with invasion through
muscular wall and involvement of perivesical adipose tissue.

5. Prostate, excision (E) - Urothelial carcinoma involving prostatic urethra with invasion into
adjacent prostatic parenchyma.

6. Left distal ureter #2, biopsy (F) - Negative for neoplasm.
7. Right pelvic lymph nodes, excision (G) - Negative for neoplasm, fourteen lymph nodes.
8. Right common lymph nodes, excision (H) - Negative for neoplasm, nine lymph nodes.

9. Left common lymph nodes, excision (l) - Metastatic urothellal carcinoma involving two of six
lymph nodes. .

10. Left common lymph nodes. excision (J) — Metastatic urothelial carcinoma involving two of four
lymph nodes. .

11. Presacrai lymph nodes. excision (K) - Negative for neoplasm, five lymph nodes.

 

Page 2 of 10

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Diagnosis Comment:
2. The carcinoma was only present in the permanent section and not present in the frozen section.

4. Specimen Type: Radical cystoprostatectomy

Tumor Size. Greatest dimension: 3.5 cm

Histologic Type: Urothelial carcinoma

Urothelial Carcinoma: (WHO/ISUP. 1998): High grade
Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Carcinoma: Not applicable
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identiﬁed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Venous/Lymphatic (Large/Small Vessel) Invasion (V/L): Present

Direct Extension of Invasive Tumor: Periveslcal fat
Prostatic stroma

Other Diagnoses: See above

Pathologic Stage:
"I. z ' (‘5'

Primary Tumor: (pT)
pT4a: Tumor invades prostate

Regional Lymph Nodes: (pN)
pN3: Metastasis in common iliac lymph nodes The size of the largest metastasis is 2.2 cm. The tumor
extends beyond the lymph node capsules to involve the adjacent adipose tissue.

Distant Metastasis (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed

Clinical Diagnosis:
BLADDER CA

 

\ Page 3 of 10

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

A. Received fresh at the frozen desk is-a specimen labeled "left distal ureter" consisting of one piece of
unoriented renal tissue measuring 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section as A1.

3. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "left pelvic lymph node" consisting of one
ovoid nodule measuring 1.5 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen section as B1.

C. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "right distal ureter" consisting of one piece
of unoriented luminal tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section as C1.

D. Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "ﬁnal urethral margin" consisting of one
piece of unoriented tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section in D1.

E. Received in fermalin previously opened and inked with the margins taken is a specimen which
consists of a urinary bladder, bilateral ureters, prostate and attached seminal vesicles and vas deferens.
The bladder measures 13.0 x 9.0 x 5.5 cm. The external surface of the bladder is covered by a serosal
lining at the dome and ﬁbroadipose tissue at the remaining portion. After the bladder is opened an
irregular, tan-white, firm area is identiﬁed measuring 3.5 x 3.0 cm. The mass appears to encompass the
entire trigone, the anterior, posterior, left bladder walls and both ureteral orifices. The mass is semisolid
with tan-brown to white, friable possible papillary areas. On sectioning, the mass appears to extend
through the left wall for a distance of 1.5 cm and is 0.2 cm from the soft tissue line of resection (inked
black). It does not appear to involve the perivesicular adipose tissue. Purulent material is present upon
sectioning of the left wall and left trigone. The remainder of the bladder wall appears edematous and
diffusely hemorrhagic. The hemorrhagic areas are predominantly visible on the posterior bladder wall. A
3.0 cm segment of right ureter is present. it is probe patent. its mucosa is slightly inﬂamed and
granular. A 2.0 cm segment of left ureter is present. it is probe patent and its mucosa is inflamed and
granular. The prostate measures 3.0 cm anteroposterlorly, 3.2 cm craniocaudally, and 4.0 cm
transversely. The capsular surface appears slightly roughened but complete. The gland is inked blue on
the right and yellow on the left, and sectioned from the apex to base transversely at 3 mm intervals
perpendicular to the urethra. The cross sections reveal a yellow-tan mottled cut surface. A deﬁnitive
mass is not identiﬁed. Rubbery nodularity is present. The seminal vesicles appear unremarkable.
Segments of vas deferens appear unremarkable. Sectioning of the attached ﬁbroadipose tissue reveals
three tan-white ﬁrm nodules. resembling lymph nodes ranging in size from 0.3-0.6 cm in greatest
dimension. Representative sections are submitted in formalin as follows: E1 right distal ureter shave,
E2 left distal ureter shave, E3—E4 anterior bladder wall, E5 left wall to include deepest extent of lesion,
E6 left ureteral oriﬁce, E7-E8 left trigone, E9 posterior wall demonstrating hemorrhagic mucosa, E10
dome demonstrating hemorrhagic mucosa, E11 right ureteral oriﬁce, E12 right wall, E13 right trigone,
E14 right ureteral mucosa (1.0 cm from distal margin), E15 left ureter mucosa (1.2 cm from distal
margin), E16 lymph nodes (3), E17 right apex, E18 left apex, E19 3 mm right, E20 3 mm left, E21 15
mm right anterior (capsular surface incomplete), E22 15 mm right posterior to include seminal vesicles,
E23 left anterior (capsular surface incomplete), E24 15 mm left posterior to include seminal vesicles.

v

Page 4 of 10

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

Gross Description:

F , Received fresh at the frozen desk is a specimen labeled "left distal ureter #2" consisting of one piece
of unoriented luminal tissue measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is totally submitted for frozen
section in F1.

G. Received in formalin labeled "right pelvic lymph nodes" is a specimen consisting of multiple
fragments of fibrofatty tissue aggregating to 7 x 5 x 1.7 cm. On sectioning, 14 possible lymph nodes
are identiﬁed ranging in diameter from 0.2 to 1 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: G1 ﬁve possible
lymph nodes, G2 four possible lymph nodes, GB four possible lymph nodes, G4 one possible lymph
node bisected.

H. Received in formalin labeled “right common lymph nodes“ is a specimen consisting of multiple
fragments of ﬁbrofatty tissue aggregating to 3 x 2 x 1 cm. Nine possible lymph nodes are identified
ranging in diameter from 0.2 to 1.5 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: H1 four possible lymph
nodes, H2 four possible lymph nodes, H3 one possible lymph node sectioned and totally submitted.

l. Received in formalin labeled "left common lymph node“ is a specimen consisting of multiple
fragments of ﬁbrofatty tissue aggregating to 9 x 4 x 2 cm. Four possible tan lymph nodes are identiﬁed,
two large lymph nodes measuring 3 and 4.5 cm in diameter. Sections are submitted as follows: l1 four
possible lymph nodes, i2-l4 one lymph node sectioned and totally submitted, 15-l8 one lymph node
sectioned and'totally submitted.

J. Received in formalin labeled “left pelvic lymph nodes“ is a specimen consisting of multiple fragments
of fibrofatty tissue aggregating to 6 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. Three possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging in
diameter from 0.5 to 3 cm. Also present is an elongated ﬁrm cord-like structure measuring 5 x 0.5 x 0.4
cm. Sections are submitted as follows: J1 one lymph node sectioned and totally submitted, J2 one
lymph node, J3 cord-like structure sectioned and totally submitted, J4-J5 one lymph node sectioned
and totally submitted.

K. Received in formalin labeled "presacral lymph nodes" is a specimen consisting of multiple fragments
of ﬁbrofatty tissue aggregating to 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. Five possible lymph nodes are identiﬁed ranging in
diameter from 0.1 to 0.6 cm. The ﬁve possible lymph nodes are submitted in K1.

—

 

Page 5 of 10

 

