 
 
 

CGA — AK- 3428

 

Clinical History/Diagnosis: Left renal mass.

Source of Specimen(s):
A: Left kidney,adrenal and para aortic lymph nodes
B: Additional para aortic tissue

Gross Description:
Received in two parts.

Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #1 "left kidney, adrenal, para-aortic lymph
nodes“

Frozen Section Diagnosis: IFS CLEAR CELL CARCINOMA AS

Gross Description: Received fresh for frozen section diagnosis is a kidney
with attached perinephric fat weighing 1988.28 gm and measuring 24 x 14.5
x 11.5 cm. Examination of the hilum reveals the vascular resection
margins. Grossly, the ureter appears to insert in the region of the lower
pole. The venous resection margin appears to be free of tumor; however,
upon opening the vein, adherent tumor thrombus is identified. No tumor is
present at the resection margin itself. Bivalving the kidney reveals a

large, yellow—orange and hemorrhagic tumor occupying the majority of the
kidney. There is some recognizable renal parenchyma identified in the
lower pole of the kidney. The tumor measures approximately 12 x 9.5 X 9
cm. A representative section of the tumor is submitted for frozen section
analysis. The frozen residue will be submitted for permanent analysis. A
section of the tumor is submitted for cytogenetic analysis. Sectioning
through the remainder of the specimen reveals tumor invading into
perinephric fat, grossly 2 mm from the inked margin. An adrenal gland is
identified measuring approximately 9 x 2 x 0.5 cm. There is a nodule
within the adrenal measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is
dissected for lymph nodes and possible lymph nodes are submitted.
Representative sections of the specimen are submitted.

Designation of Sections: IFS frozen section, 1A vascular and ureteral
resection margins, IB tumor thrombus within vein, lC tumor extending into
perinephric fat (with inked margin), 1D tumor section with possible
vascular invasion, 1E tumor section with kidney and perinephric fat, 1F
section of tumor, lG—lK possible lymph nodes, 1L section of adrenal

including nodule

Summary of Sections: 13 IFS through IL A multiple

ea*essaaaaseaaareaeaseaeaasaaeasaasasaasa*seeeaasaeaaaesssaasaaaaaesaasa

Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2 "additional para—aortic tissue"

Gross Description: Received fresh is a portion of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 2 x l x 0.5 cm. No gross lymph node is identified. The entire

 

specimen is submitted.
Designation of Sections: 2A

Summary of Sections: 1 2A,2

Final Diagnosis:

1. Kidney, left, adrenal, and para—aortic lymph nodes (radical
nephrectomy): ,,..w~«~~"””""""w ' H

~ Renal cell carcinoma, clear cgﬂype (12 9m)3'}:l1 rman nuclear grade 2,
invading through the renal capsu e-into‘thépeﬁﬁephdc fat.

- Tumor thrombus is present Within the renal vein.

— Carcinoma is approximately 2.5 mm from the inked perinephric fat
margin.

— Negative vascular and ureteral margins.

— Four negative lymph nodes (014).

— Adrenal gland with benign lipomatous inclusion.

2. Additional para—aortic tissue (excision):
— Fibroadipose tissue, no lymphoid tissue seen, no tumor seen.

 

