Results

UUID: BBEASASA- BDDE- 45M- A758- 5EE2CECR625E4
TCGA- UB- -AAOV- 61A- PR

Surgical Pathology Specimen Source (enter 1 per line): 1. left lobe of liver-permanent (long

Ill lllllllll II I lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
III III! lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllflulllllhlﬂlllllllllrillllg ”tad

stitch marks iaterai;_smedium stitch marks medial) {Order

Resuﬂlnfonnaﬁon

SmumeamLmdmedDamﬂhne}
Edited V

lﬂDL‘rS

Agession #

 

SURGECAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

* AMENDED *

   
   

Patient Name:
Med. Rec.$:

   

Acceﬁaion #2
Viait #:
Service Sate:
Reeuivedz
Location:
Ciient:
?hysician(s}:

€XNAL §ATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSES

Liver, Tait lobe, partial hepatectomy:
1. Vocal nodular hyperplasia: sec comment.
2. Minimal hemosiderosis: 386.comment.

CGMMENT:
This repoxt has been amended due to a typographical error in the
diagnosia. The diagnosis and report remain otherwise unchanged.

Sectiona reveal a. circumscribed, nodular proliferation of
wcli—izf£erenrxatoq i.<patocytes with associ.atud thin, irregular fibrzus
bands demonstrating ductukaz rr.action and abtzrrant arterioles. which
focal 1y abuts the hepatic CTpsule. The hepatocytes Show intact
trabracular a.rchit<x :ture without cytologic atypi3.8eticu1in Stain
'pert formed on block A3) hiqhiights hepat.ic pliaes of T~2 -awsli thicknzss
aad shows no loss The surgical margin is negative- In ardir to
furthe r chazactcrize the Tesion, immunahiatochemical s :ain3 were
performed on block A3, with the £017owinq xigults an the lesiaral
hepatocytes:

w Glutamina synthetage: Eositive in characteristic patchy, mapwlike
staining yattern.

— FAA: ﬁeqative.

I
v I

‘ - Iﬂqmm, M: m?

was

_ ’-

- CRP: focal weak positive: pradominantly negative.

_ LEFABP: Positiva {normal pattern}.

~ Betadcaﬁenin: Membranous staining only (normal pattern}.
- In addition, an immunostain for CD34 shows patchy sinusoidal
endothelialization near fibrous septne.

2

The morphologic and immunehistochemical findingﬁ ara thosa of excised
focal nedulAr hypnrpiasia {TNH}.

The non~lesional hepatic parenchyma shows few widely scattared poztal
tracts with minimal gredominantly lymphocytic inflammation without
interfacm activity. Bile duc:s are intact without injury a: loss.
These is no gigniﬁicant lobulaz'inflammaticn, and no necrotic
hepatocytes are identified. Reel of glycogenatmd nuclei are seen.
Theta is no Stedtosis u: chulestasi$« A trichrame stain (pezformcd on
biock A5; overali shows no significant increased fibrnﬁia; a few thin,
periportni septna are identified, but thesa are Tacal and subcapsular in
location. An item stain (also performed on black A3}, shows wideiy
scattared small; patchy foci 0i 1‘2+ staining, predominantly in
hegatocytes and also Tn Kupffer cells {scale G—é}, $Ome but not all of
which show petiportal distributioﬁ,

Thc findings in the backgrnund livar are minimal and nonmspecific. The
pattern of minimal iron deposition is not entiraly ﬁpecifig but may ha
campatible with genetic hqmochrmmntosis in This Context.

Selwcﬂad SlAdms UK this Case'have aiso been reviéwwd by Dr;
(Al, A3, and A4, including immunestains) and ﬁr. (slide A3,
including iron and trichrome stains}, who aqree With the diagnosis.

Specimenis} Rmceiveé ‘
Azheft lobe of liver-permanent (lung stitch markﬁ latatal: medium
stitch markﬁ medial) (F5)

Inrxnoperativn Diagnosis

F8: (A) Aivezr Taft 19b3, biopsy: Hepatocollular lesion, differentia}

diagnosis inciudea fncai nodular hvnmniaaia and Variant adenoma. Dr.
_agroes. (Dr.

Clinical ﬁistory

The patient is a year-old woman who, according to , has a known
hiatory of hamochzcmatosis {CZSZY homozygous] and developed a 2 cm
lesion in sagment 2 of the liver, and had elevated alpha-fetoprotein.
There is no cizrhasis on imaging studies.

Grass Description

The case i5 received in one part, fresh, labelad with the pahient's name
anﬂ medical record numbez, and additionally labeled "ﬁl left lobe
liver," and consists of a portion 05 live: {55 gm; 7 cm ﬁrom night to
left x 2.8 cm from anterior to posterior x 10 cm from supexior ta
inferior). L

GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a firm, well~circumscribed, yellow—brown
nodule (2.2 x Z X 1.8 am}, located 1 cm from the parenchymai margin.

The nodule abuts the capsule and is 3.5 cm from the lateral edge. The
vw$$els and ducts surrounding the nodule are paﬁent. The surrounding
parenchyma is unifqrmly pinh~brown withuut athe: masses. N0 candidate
lymph nodes are identified.

OREENTEQ BY; Surgeon‘s sutures; short m medialg long 3 latéral.
INTRAOPERRTIVE FINﬁINGS: Frwzgn sgcﬁion 1g nadule; $ub5wquentiy

submitted in cassetta A}.

INKING:

w Liver capsule averlyinq‘massz Blue.

~ Parenchymai margin:' Biack.

?OTENTIAL STUDIES: Fresh ncrmai tisaue and tumqr are ﬁubmiuted to the

Tiﬁsue Bank.

CﬁSSETTES: Repreﬁentative seations are submitted:

A1: Frozen section 1 remnant.

A2: N$dula and relationship ta parenchymal m§£gin.
Aj-Aéz Additional nadule»

A5: Normalwappearing parenchymd. 3 cm from nodule.

The immunohistaahemical stains reported abova mere developed dad their
performance.characteristics deﬂermined by the

They have: mt: been cleared or 399va by the
U. S. Focd.and ﬁrug Administratian. @he FDA has dmturmiued that such
clearance or apprmval is nut necessary. These tpsts ara used fer
Clinicai purpmses. Thay shauid not be regarded-as investigationai 0:
for msearch. 'i‘his iabamtory ia certified under the Clinical
Lahnratory Improvement Amendments af 1988 ("CLEA"} as qualified to
pezform high~¢omplexity clinical testing.

DiagnOSia based on gross and miaxoscopic examinations. Final diagnosis
made by attenéing pathaiogist ﬁgllowing review of all pathology glides.
The attenﬁing pathologist baa reviewed all diataiionﬁ. including
prosechr work, and preiiminary interpretations performed by any
resident involved in the case and performed all ﬁesessary edits before
signing the final report.

Pathology PDF Report

Show images for Surgicai Pathology Sgegimen- Source (enter 1 Qgr fine): 1, left lobe 9f Iiver-Qermanent {long
stitch marks laterak smedium stitch marks medial) '

Authorizing Progider Information

 

 

 

 

Name: Fax:
MD

Phone: Pager:
Signed by
Result History

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY (Order Order Result History Report.

and Items
Sur ical t ale 3 im n an ce n r? erllne):1. left lobe of liver—oermanentﬂonq stitch marks

 

lateral; smgdium stitch marks medial} (Order:

This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below.

Surgicat Pathology Specimen Source (ente'r‘l per
line): 1. left lobe of iiver-pennanent (long stitch

_ _ Auth ' ' :
marks lateral; smedium stitch marks medial) onzmg Date;
(Order , MD Released By;
Pathology and Cytology Department;

Order:

 

stitch mggk§ lateral; smedium stitch marks m'edialt
Order Information .
Order Date'lTime Release DateITime Start Date/Time End Date/Wires:

Release Information
Released On Released By

Order Details

 

 

Frequency Duration Priority Order Class

OnCe 1 occurrence Routine Unit Collect
Order Questions

Question Answer Comment

COLLDATE

COLLTIME

ORPHONE

Specimen Source (enter 1 per line) 1. left lobe of liver?

permane'ntﬂong

stitch marks
lateral; smedium
stitch marks

 

 

 

medial)
liver mass
Lab Collection and Receipt Information
Collect Date Gollect Time Collected By Lab» Receipt {Date Lab Receipt Time
Collection Information
Resulting Agency
Order Provider Info
Office
nhone Pager.’beeper E-mall
Ordering User > - -
Aulhorizing Provider , —- 1-
Electronically Signed By: _
Electronically Authorized By Electronically Ordered By

Acknowledgement Info
For At

Acknowledged By

Acknowledged On
Order Status for: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Parent Status: Completed

Child Orders

(This order does not yet have any children)
Order Requisition

Surgical Pathology Sgecimen Source (enter 1 per line): 1‘ left lobe of liver~germanent (long stitch marks
lateral; smedium stitch marks medial) ( Order

 

3,, m, or” MMM‘Y rm ’1‘ the
Cmsisﬁrvz" ”iv “wt-M AW M
f, Mae/M ,,

ouIsD'lScf -P'“ "0L,—
)i'ﬂ-rd no‘ tire r BEL——
M
Lit-LA Dis repent-L ._-
Hi to? v' ——‘~
mm :W —'—'-‘-f
a
)IﬂaIISynchirneu:__ r_L_mirY': "l' minimum—d
315; is lciu: 2‘

'iev iewen 124/31 W ”1
Ac newer Initials _:_1: T1,,

._M—

WI

300—

 

   

:p—4—w

  

I;

 

 

 

V4, 00

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

W The TCGA Pa thologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the

.\

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T38): _______—T55 Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (Interviewer Name on - Completed Date:
[Diagnosis Information
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working Instructions
Provide the diagnosis/ histologic subtype(s] documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis Focal nodular the initial pathology report for this case. If the histology for
1 Provided on Initial h I _ this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report yperp asra
Histologic features 0 f Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
. Quality Control Form com leted for this case.
2 the sample provxded Hepatocellular p
for TCGA, as reﬂected Garcmoma
on the CQCF.

 

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

3 Provide the reason for The frozen section top slide was

the discrePanc” consistent with a well.
between the pathology differ t' t d h t H I
report and the TCGA . e" la 9_ epa 009. u ar
Case Quality Control lesion, and Immunostalns
Form (including beta-catenin and

glutamine synthetase) and
reticulin stain were required to
differentiate between
hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatic
adenoma, and focal nodular
hyperplasia (which ended up
being the final pathologic
diagnosis).

Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.

 

Name of TSS Reviewing
4 Pathologist or
Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
for TCGA.

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Princi' restigator Signature

Date

 

 

 

 

