   

CGA—BA—5151

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:

FSA: Anterior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSB: Superior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSC: Posterior margin, ieﬁ cheek skin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSD: Inferior margin, ieft cheek skin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSE; Anterior leﬁ mandible periosteum, biopsy
— No carcinoma identiﬁed.

F SF : Left anterior mandible margin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSG: Left anterior mucosal margin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.
- No mucosal epithelium for evaluation.

FSH: Left inferior mucosai margin, biopsy
- N0 carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSI: Left posterior mucosa] margin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

FSI: Left superior mucosal margin, biopsy
- No carcinoma identiﬁed.

K: Thyroid, isthmus, removal
— Benign thyroid parenchyma, no carcinoma identiﬁed.

L: Left mandible, maxiila, and cheek, en bloc resection

Tumor histologic type: invasive squamous cell carcinoma

Histologic grade: well—differentiated

Tumor extent: Buccai mncorsa, submucosa, abuts maxillary bone (L20), invades mandible (L21).
Presence/absence of CIS: present

Angiolymphatic space invasion: not identiﬁed

Perineural space invasion: not identiﬁed

Soft tissue surgical margins:

 

- Close but negative

— Closest is <1 mm to mid/inferior soft tissue margin (L16).
— Distance to anterior 4 mm (Ll).

- Distance to pOsterior 6 mm (L2).

- Distance to lateral 9 mm (L13).

— Distance to inferior 6 mm (L14).

— Distance to superior 7 mm (L15).

- Bone invasion identiﬁed in mandible section (L21).

Bane surgical margins: Not invoived.

Lymph nodes: 0/2 in this specimen

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: none

AJCC Stage: pT4a (skin of face invasion) pNO pr

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change
pending clinical review and additionai information.

M: Lymph nodes, left neck level 1, removal
- Submandibular gland, no carcinoma identiﬁed.
- Lymph nodes no metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/3).

N: Lymph nodes, leit neck level 2, removal
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/4).

0: Lymph nodes, leﬁ neck level 3, removal
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0/10).

P: Lymph nodes, left neck level 4, removal
- No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/8).

Q: Lymph nodes, left neck level 5, removal
- No metastatic carcinoma identiﬁed (0’6).

R: Left oral commissure, removal
- Verrucous hyperplasia, involving mucosa at vermillion border, 9 mm to inked surgical margin.

Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis:

An intraoperative consultation is requested
FSAl: Anterior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSB]: Superior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSCI: Posterior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSDI: Inferior margin, left cheek skin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

FSEl: Anterior left mandible periosteum, biopsy
— No tumor seen

 

 

FSFl: Left anterior mandible margin, biopsy
~ No tumor seen

FSGl: Left anterior mucosal margin, biopsy
— Skeletal muscle with NTF; no mucosa present for evaluation

FSHl: Left inferior mucosa! margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

F811: Left posterior mucosal margin, biopsy
— No tumor seen

FSJI: Left superior mucosai margin, biopsy
- No tumor seen

Frozen Section Pathologist:

Clinical History:
with left buccal mucosa] carcinoma verrucous carcinoma vs. squamous cell carcinoma.

Gross Description:
Specimen A is received ﬁ‘esli for frozen section and is a 1.0 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm tan skin ﬁ'agment that was previously

frozen entirely as FSAl.

Specimen B is received fresh for frozen section and is a 7 .0 x 4.0 x 2.0 mm yellow/red soft tissue fragment with
scant tan skin, previously frozen entirely as FSBI.

Specimen C is received fresh for frozen section and is a 7.0 x 2.0 x 1,0 mm tan fragment of skin that was previously
frozen entirely as FSCi.

Specimen D is received fresh for frozen section and is a 6.0 x l x 1 mm fragment of tan skin that was previously
frozen entirely as FSDl. '

Specimen E is received fresh for ﬁ'ozen section and is a 3.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 mm aggregate of two fragments of red/tan
soft tissue that was previously frozen entirely as FSEl. One fragment was extensively dried onto the gauze pad.

Specimen F is received from for frozen section and is a 6.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 mm red/tan aggregate of two fragments of
redftan soft tissue that was previously frozen entirely as FSFl.

Specimen G is received fresh for frozen section and is a 1,0 x 1.0 x 1.0 mm redftan soft tissue fragment that was
previously frozen entirely as FSGI.

Specimen H is received fresh for frozen section and is a 4.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 mm fragment of yellow/red soft tissue that
was previously frozen entirely as FSHl.

Specimen I is received fresh for frozen section and is a 4.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 mm fragment ofyellowlred soft tissue that
was previously frozen entirely as FSII.

Specimen J is received fresh for frozen section and is a 6.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 mm fragment of yellow/red soft tissue that
was previously frozen entirely as FSJl.

Specimen K is received in a formalin-filled container and is a 0.7 gram fragment of pink/gray and cauterized soft

tissue (2.0 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm); and inked black.
The specimen is serially sectioned to demonstrate a brownfgray cut surface. The specimen is submitted entirely in

block K1.

 

Specimen L:
Specimen ﬁxation: Formalin '
Type of specimen: Left partial mandibulectomy and partial maxillectomy with attached cheek skin.

Size of specimen: 9.0 x 7.2 x 4.5 cm (skin 6.5 x 5.2 cm with a subcutaneous tissue depth of 2.1 cm, maxilla (5.1 x
3.2 cm) mandible (7.5 x 3.5 x 1.4 cm).

Orientation of specimen: The specimen is marked on the scan with a suture, per requisition, indicating anterior.
hiking: superior/blue, inferior/red, medial/black, lateral/yellow, anterior/orange, posterior/green.

Tumor description: The mass (3.6 x 2.1 cm), is well—demarcated, white/tan, soft, venucous, and centrally ulcerated.
The skin is tan/pink, and exhibits a gray/white, white nodule (2.1 x 1.1 cm), that is centrally ulcerated.
The nodule is 1.4 cm from the closest skin margin (anterior/inferior). On cut section, the mass is white/tan, friable,

soft, verrucous.

Location of tumor: The mass is located in the left retromoiar trigone region, extends to the buccal mucosa, goes
through the soft tissue, and extends to the overlying skin.

Tumor size: Sectioning demonstrates that the mass is 4.0 x 3 .5 x 2.5 cm.

Extent of tumor: The mass erodes into the posterior mandible and encases the periosteum. There is also a focus of
periosteal erosion, abutting the maxilla. The previously described skin surface nodule is a direct extension

of the mass.

Presence/absence of bone involvement: The mandible is infiltrated by the mass and there is a periosteal erosion that
abuts the maxilla.

Distance of tumor from surgicai margins: Anterior buccal mucosa 1.1

cm, posterior buccal mucosa 0.6 cm, superior buccal mucosa 0.5 cm, inferior buccal mucosa 0.9 cm, posterior
mandibular margin 1.3 cm, anterior mandibular margin -1.5 cm, inferior soft tissue margin 0.5 cm, superior soft
tissue margin 0.4 cm, superior maxilla margin 1.0 cm, medial soft tissue abuts, lateral soft tissue margin 0.2 cm, skin

focally involves/extends to the skin.

Description of remainder of tissue: The remainder of the

uninvolved mucosa is white, smooth and glistening. The remainder of the skin is pink/tan, hair-bearing and without
additional lesions. Two apparent lymph nodes (up to 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm), were located in the surrounding soft tissue.
On cut surface, both apparent lymph nodes are white and ﬁrm.

Tissue submitted for special investigations: No
Lymph nodes: Two apparent lymph nodes.
Digital photograph taken: Yes.

Block Summary:

L1 - Anterior (orange) mucosal margin, perpendicular

L2 - Posterior mucosal margin, perpendicular

L3 - Anterior buccal mucosal margin, perpendicular

L4 - Anterior mandibular margin, en face, following decalciﬁcation
L5 - Superior mandibular margin, on face, following decalciﬁcation
L6 — Posterior mandibular margin, on face, following deoalciﬁcation
L7 - Anterior maxilla margin, en face, following decalcification '
L8 - Lateral maxillary margin, on face, following decalciﬁcaticn

L9 — Superior maxillaly margin, en face, following decalciﬁcation
L19 - Posterior maxillary margin, en face, following decalciﬁcation
L1 1 — Mass with respect to ﬂoor of mouth and mandibular periosteum

 

L12 - Mass with respect to skin and skin surface nodule

L13 — Mass with respect to lateral (yellow) soft tissue margin, perpendicular
L14 - Mass with respect to inferior (red) soft tissue margin, perpendicular
L15 - Mass with respect to superior (blue) soft tissue margin, perpendicular
L16 - Mass with respect to medial (black) soft tissue margin, perpendicular
L17 — Posterior (green) margin, on face

L18 - Mass with respect to anterior (orange) soft tissue margin, perpendicular
L19 - Mass with respect to maxillary periosteal erosion, following decalciﬁcation
L20 - Mass with respect to maxillary sinus, following decalciﬁcation

L21 - Mass inﬁltrating mandible, following decalciﬁcatiori

L22-L23 - Two apparent lymph nodes, one in each, both bisected

Specimen M is received in a formalin-filled container and is a fragment of ﬁbroadipose tissue (8.5 x 3.3 x 2.5 em),
that consists of a yellow/tan lobulated gland (4.5 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm) and three apparent lymph nodes (up to L4 x 0.8 x
0.5 cm). The gland is inked black, serially sectioned to demonstrate a tan/white lobular cut surface. No discrete
masses are grossly identified. Within the gland, there is a small caliber vessel (1.0 cm in length x 0.3 cm in
diameter). Representative sections of the gland are submitted in blocks M1 and M2 and the lymph nodes are
submitted in block M3 (one is inked and bisected).

Specimen N is received in a formalin-filled container and is a fragment of ﬁbroadipose tissue (4.9 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm),
that consists of scant skeletal muscle (1.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm) and six apparent lymph nodes (up to 2.3 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm). A
representative of the skeletal muscle is submitted in block N1 and the apparent lymph nodes are submitted in blocks
N2 and N3 (N2 four apparent lymph nodes, one inked and bisected; N3 two apparent lymph nodes, both inked and
bisected).

Specimen O is received in a formalin-ﬁlled container and consists of two fragments of ﬁbroadipose tissue (5,5 x 3.5
x 1.5 cm, in aggregate), that consists of a red/brown skeletal muscle (3.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm) and ten apparent

lymph nodes (up to 1.4 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm). A representative of the skeletal muscle is submitted in block 01 and the
apparent lymph nodes are submitted in blocks 02 and O3 (02 Six apparent lymph nodes (one inked and bisected);
(03 three apparent lymph nodes, two inked and bisected).

Specimen P is received in a formalin~ﬁlled container and is a fragment of ﬁbroadipose tissue (4.2 x 2.5 x 1.2 cm),
that contains nine apparent lymph nodes, up to 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. The apparent lymph nodes are submitted in
blocks P1-P2 (P1 six apparent lymph nodes; P2 three apparent lymph nodes, one inked and bisected).

Specimen Q is received in a formalin-filled container and is a fragment of ﬁbroadipose tissue (3.9 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm),
that contains six apparent lymph nodes, up to 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The apparent lymph nodes are submitted in blocks
Ql-Q2. (Q1 ﬁve apparent lymph nodes; Q2 one apparent lymph node, inked and bisected).

Specimen R is received in a formalin-ﬁlled containerand is a 2.1 x 1.5 cm unoriented irregular excision of gray/tan
hair-bearing skin with a subcutaneous tissue depth of 0.7 cm. The medial aspect is concave and is discloses a
tan/gray smooth mucosa. The lateral half is inked blue and the medial half is inked black. The specimen is
transversely sectioned ﬁ'om superior to inferior, and

submitted entirely sequentially from superior to inferior, in blocks R1-R3, NTR.

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed. The frozen
section diagnoses are conﬁrmed. The close soft tissue margin in L16 is just inferior to the circular oral mucosa

around the primary

#

 

