* Final Report *

Result Type:
Result Date:
Result Status:
Result Title:
Verified By:
Encounter info:

 

- ---~..- . _vl.v- -

Microscopic Description (Verified)

Portion of the tissue used for frozen section from the right lateral posterior aspect reveals squamous cell carcinoma extending to a cauterized
inked deep surgical margin.

Sections of the tumor reveal a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. The inked margin is positive in the posterior lateral aspect and
comes to within less than 1 mm in the anterior medial aspect. The remaining surgical margins are free. The anterior (tongue margin) is the
greatest margin measuring 9 mm.

There are two (2) negative right level 2B lymph nodes.

There are 13 negative right level 3 lymph nodes.

There are four (4) out of eight (8) positive right level 2A lymph nodes.

No overt lymphovascular invasion is noted.

Final Diagnosis (Verified)

Right radical tonsillectomy and partial glossectomy with frozen section:
Well-differentiated, infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma of right tonsil.
No overt lymphovascular invasion is noted.
Surgical margin positive in the posterior lateral aspect.

Two (2) negative right level ZB lymph nodes.

Thirteen negative right level 3 lymph nodes.

Four (4) of eight (8) positive right level 2A lymph nodes.

AJCC pathologic stage: T2,N2b.

Printed by:
Printed on:

Page 1 of 3
(Continued)

 

 

    

Surg Path Final Report

* Final Report *

 

Signature Line

Frozen Section Diagnosis (Verified)
Right radical tonsillectomy and partial glossectomy.

Posterior side inked orange and black. Surgeon most concerned with anterior lateral area. *

Specimen sectioned into 4 pieces to grossly examine margins.
Gross: Tumor abuts mar ins.
FS: Margins positive.

Specimen put into 4 separate bottle-

Clinical Information (Verified)
Squamous cell carcinoma of right tonsil.

Gross Description (Verified)
NOTE: THIS CASE IS TO GO To DR.

"A, Right radical tonsillectomy and partial glossectomy." Received after frozen section is a 5.2 X 4.5 x 3.6 cm tonsil with attached portion of
tongue. The specimen has an overall measurement of 5.2 x 4.5 x 3.6 cm. There are sutures attached to the specimen. which are designated
as long lateral and short superior. The lateral half of the specimen has been previously inked black. and the medial half of the specimen has
been previously inked orange. The specimen has been previously sectioned to reveal a 3.9 x 2.8 cm white-tan, ﬁrm mass. A portion of the
specimen has been submitted for frozen section in cassette "FSA." "A1," tumor to include tongue and lateral margin; "A2," tumor to include
anterior lateral margin; "A3," tumor to include posterior lateral margin; "A4," section of mass to include posterior lateral margin; "A5," section
of mass to include posterior medial margin; "A6." section of mass to include posterior medial margin; "A7," section of mass to include anterior
medial margin; "A8," section of the mass to include anterior medial margin and tongue.

"B, Right level 2B." Received is a 2.7 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm yellow-tan, lobulated tissue fragment. On sectioning. there are 2 possible lymph nodes,
which are 0.5 and 0.9 cm. Both lymph nodes will be sampled. "B," representative.

"C, Right level 3." Received are 3 yellow—tan. lobulated tissue fragments ranging from 1.4 to 6.2 cm. On sectioning, there are 13 possible
lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 to 1.1 cm. All lymph nodes will be sampled. "Ci—CB," representative.

"D, Right level 2A." Received is a 5.2 x 3.7 x 1.1 cm yellow-tan to tan. moderately ﬁrm tissue fragment. On sectioning, there are 9 possible
lymph nodes ranging from 0.5 to 2.4 cm. All the lymph nodes will be sampled. "D1—D3," representative.

Printed by: Page 2 of 3
Printed on: (Continued)

Surg Path Final Report

* Final Report *

 

WES demographics labeled _." The container has one yellow cassette labeled
Signature Line

Com leted Action List:

    

Printed by:
Printed on:

Page 3 of 3
(End of Report)

 

