    

Pathology_Report

Accession Number: " Report Status: Final

Type: Surgical Pathology
Specimen Type: C
Procedure Date:
Ordering Provide

 

  
    
 
  
 
 
  

CASE:
PATIENT:

Resident:
Pathologis

PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS:

A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY" {29 cm):
ADENOCARCINOMA, high grade, moderately differentiated (15 cm in
greatest dimension).
Tumor is located in right colon {cecum), is ulcerative, and has a
pushing border.
Tumor invades through muscularis propria into serosal surface.
Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor.
Invasive tumor is 7.5 cm from proximal resection margin, 10 cm from
distal resection margin, and 2 cm from radial resection margin.
Lymphovascular invasion is not identified.
Extramural venous invasion is not identified.
Perineural invasion is identified.
?eritumoral lymphoid response (including Crohn's-like infiltrate) is
mild.
Residual adenoma is absent.
Immunohistochemistry performed at -demonstrates the following
staining profile in lesional cells:

Positive - CKZO (rare)
Negative — CKT, CDXZ, synaptophysin, chromogranin

Regional lymph nodes (positive:total): 0:35.
AJCC Classification (6th edition): T4b NO Mx.

NOTE: '
Immunostains for MLHl and PMS2 reveal absence of nuclear staining in tumor
cells (and intact nuclear staining in nondneoplastic cells). Immunostains for

MSH2 and MSH6 reveal intact nuclear staining in tumor cells.

In most tumors with loss of MLH1 and PMSZ staining, the defect is caused by
sporadic methylation silencing, and is not associated with a germline mutation.
Less commonly, MLH1 and PMSZ loss is caused by a germline mutation in the MLH1
gene (or rarely in the PMSZ gene), usually in the setting of a family history
of colorectal, endometrial, gastric, or other cancers (HNECC). Colorectal
cancers with mismatch repair deficiency are associated with improved overall
patient survival. Clinical correlation is required.

B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED "LIVER, BIOPSY" (including FSA}:
Bile duct adenoma.

CLINICAL DATA:

History: R colon cancer.
Operation: Subtotal colectomy.
Operative Findings: Not provided.
Clinical Diagnosis: Adeno CA.

TISSUE SUBMITTED:
A. right: hemicolectomy -
B. liver biopsy

O.R. CONSULTATION:
SPECIMEN LABELED "2. LIVER BIOPSY" (INCLUDING FSA):

 

 

 

Pathology Report

5 W casta'ngvvarnna

Bile duct adenoma.
Tumor is grossly 7.5 cm from proximal margin and 10 cm from distal

margin.

SPECIMEN LABELED "l. RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY":
(Gross examination only).

OR Consultation by:
Resident:

The senior physician certifies that he/she paracnally conducted a gross and/or
microscopic examination of the described specimen(s) and rendered or confirmed
the rapid diagnos(es) related thereto.

GROSS DESCRIPTION:
The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patient's

name, unit number.

Part A, labeled "#1. Right hemicolectomy", consists of a right hemicolectomy,
including a portion of terminal ileum (7.0 cm in length), a segment of right
colon and cecum (22.0 cm in length), and an appendix (6.0 cm in length, 0.4 cm
in diameter), and attached pericolic adipose tissue (including a portion of
adipose tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 30.0 x 16.0 x 1.2 cm). The
proximal stapled resection margin measures 3.0 cm and is inked blue, and the
distal stapled resection margin measures 4.0 cm and is inked black. The serosa
is pink and focally firm at the cecum and proximal portion of right colon (11.0
x 9.0 cm), 7.0 cm from the proximal stapled resection margin and 10.0 cm from
the distal stapled resection margin. The specimen is opened to reveal an
exophytic focally ulcerating irregular tan—yellow to pink mass (15.0 x 10.0 x
4.0 cm). The mass involves the adjacent ileocecal valve, and comes to 7.5 cm
from the proximal stapled resection margin, and 10.0 cm from the distal stapled
resection margin. Per the surgeon, there is an "adhesed peritoneal folding
area (8.0 x 8.0 cm)", within the previously described firm serosal area,
designated as "true resection margin" (inked black). On cut section, the mass
extends into the underlying colonic wall, and into the surrounding pericolic
adipose tissue, coming to less than 0.1 cm from the black ink peritonealized
margin, as designated per the surgeon, and is 2.0 cm from the closest radial
mesenteric margin. Representative sections of the mass are submitted to the GI
stem cell lab for special studies, and additional representative sections of
the mass and uninvolved colonic mucosa are submitted to tissue bank for special
studies. The remaining mucosa is tan with normal folds, with no additional
discrete masses or lesions identified. Multiple tan—pink rubbery lymph nodes
are identified within the surrounding pericolonic adipose tissue, ranging from
0.2 cm to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. Gross photos are taken.

Representative sections are submitted.

Micro A1: Proximal and distal stapled resection margins, radially, 2 frags,
RSS. '

Micro A2: Appendiceal tips (bisected), and cross sectioned, 4 frags, RSS.
Micro A3: Closest mesenteric radial margin, on face, 1 frag, ESS.

Micro A4: Appendiceal orifice, 1 frag, ESS.

Micro A5: Terminal ileum to ulcerating mass, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A6: Ileocecal valve, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro A7: Ulcerating mass to right colon, 1 frag, RSS.

Micro AB—Alé: Additional sections of ulcerating mass, with the peritonealized
surface, as designated by the surgeon in A9sAl3 (inked black), 1 frag each,
RSS.

Micro AIS—A20: Whole proximal lymph nodes, multi frags each, -

Micro A21: 1 lymph node, bisected, 2 frags,

Micro A22: 1 lymph node, bisected, 2 frags,

Micro A23: 1 lymph node, bisected, 2 frags,

Micro A24: 1 lymph node, bisected, 2 frags,

Part B, labeled "#2. Liver biopsy", consists of a tanwred irregular soft tissue
(0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm), which is submitted in toto for frozen section as FSA.

 

 

 

Page:20f3

    

I’athoiogy Report

, ,..,. J. . :32. mm“: we

Micro Bl: FSA remnant, 1 frag, -
CASE NUMBER: m.

By his/her signature below, the senior physician certifies that he/she
personally conducted a microscopic examination ("gross only" exam if so stated)
of the described speciments) and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis(es)
related thereto.

 

 

Page: 3 of 3

 

