UUID: 341F8DA8- AESB- 1-8336- M33- 978F292£4eZ§3ac

‘ iii"l'ili'i'"'i'i'llill'lli'l'll'lliiiill'lii'ii'i

Concerning

Summary pathology report

Right orchidectomy; nonseminoma (EC 95 %, YST 5%. scattered trophoblastic giant cells);
diameter 6 cm; angio—invasion present; invasion of rete testis unknown; tumor conﬁned to
testis.

Date of procurement (= date of orchidectomy):
ICLD a 3

(7 Luna/ti) Lmbtzj L N
au. 55:76)?)
so}; ®W¢3N®

6:27. (-7
pathologist 9% b 5 /51 j y

professor of pathology

g dz Mwwfw
géfw U ma 14W

 

Reviewe r

 

 

v4.00
TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

W The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis

documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Farm completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site (T85): T58 Identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient Identiﬁer:
Completed By (Interviewer Name Completed Date: _ _
Diagnosis Information 7
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Working instructions
EC ( 9 5 9s) I YST ( 5 26) Provide the diagnosis / histologic subtype(s) documented on
Pathologic Diagnosis the initial pathology report for this case. if the histology for
1 Provided on Initial —-————-——————————— this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report
. . EC (1 O 0 “1) Provide the histologic features selected on the TCGA Case
HIStOIOglC features 0f Quality Control Form completed for this case.
2 the sample provrded ‘
for TCGA, as reﬂected
on the CQCF.
Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form 1
3 Provide the reason for Due to the hi stological heterogeneous Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
. . t . _ . pathology report for this case is not consistent with the
the discrepanCy constitu 101:1 Of non seminomas ' the diagnosis selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
between the pathology representation of the different
report and the TCGA elements can and is in fact expected

Case Quality Control

to differ between the FFPE and frozen
Form.

samples of the same case.
However, the components are monoclonal
in origin.

 

Name Of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or for TCGA.

Biorepository Director

 

 

 

 

 

 

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled.

 

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my institution is true and correct and has been quality controlled. The Attending Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been informed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature Date

