 

 

lérbé'r?

2 , (A _ .r a
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT (4”5””‘5‘-’Q “OWN”

(8080 )5
Case Number: 311%; a far/I36",

L lower scam ed
Diagnosis: ' ,2.~/‘JZ'>;¢D C‘ Sq, Z)
A: Cervix, posterior, removal
— Cervix with small focus of glandular tissue suspicious for
carcinoma
- No squamous mucosa identified
B: Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries, total abdominal
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo—oophorectomy
Uterus and cervix, hysterectomy:
Location of tumor: lower uterine segment/cervix
Histologic type: carcinosarcoma with heterologous elements, see
comment
Stromal invasion: Inner half
Depth: 3mm Wall thickness: 9mm Percent: 33%
Serosal involvement: not identified ”“m¥%““*“*““*”m“"”“$$dmxed

T A'"B'Aiﬁﬁiﬁiﬁiﬁﬁmmm|muuuuluu
mqﬂﬂmmmmﬂmmmmmmnmmmmmuu

Cervical involvement: present “Hui |II1III||HII|III|||||1\II|||||||H\|I|I\IHIHllllIlIlI

Lower uterine segment involvement: present

Adnexal involvement (see below): not identified

Cervical/vaginal margin and distance: tumor is 1.7 cm from the
ectocervical margin

Lymphovascular space invasion: not identified

Other pathologic findings: leiomyoma, 0.4 cm

Tumor estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor
immunohistochemistry results: Pending, will be reported in an

addendum

AJCC Pathologic Stage: pT2 pNx
F160 (2008 classification) Stage grouping: II

These stages are based on information available at the time of
this report, and are subject to change pending additional

information and clinical review.

Ovaries:
— Benign with simple cysts and corpora albicantia

Fallopian tubes:
— Benign fallopian tubes

Comment:

The tumor exhibits carcinomatous and sarcomatous
differentiation, with heterologous cartilaginous
differentiation, and homologous differentiation consistent with
endometrial stromal sarcoma. The tumor is staged as a pT2 since
there is lower uterine segment and cervical involvement.

Clinical History:
~year—old with endometrial cancer.

Gross Description:

Specimen A is received in a formalin—filled container labeled
"posterior cervix" and consists of a 2.6 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm fragment
of rubbery tan/gray tissue. One surface is lined by a focally
erythematous mucosa. The opposite surface (stroma) is inked
black and the specimen is trisected and submitted in Al and

A2,

Specimen B is labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and
ovaries" and consists of a 72 gram (8.1 x 4.3 x 3.6 cm) uterus
with attached left ovary (2.5 x 1.6 x 1.0 cm), left fimbriated
fallOpian tube (4.1 cm long x 0.4 cm in diameter), right ovary
(2.7 x 1.7 x 1.0 cm) and right fimbriated fallopian tube (4.4 cm
long x 0.4 cm in diameter).

The endometrial cavity is 2.5 cm wide x 3.6 cm long and has a
3.6 x 3.1 x 1.7 cm irregularly shaped gray/white fungating mass
at the anterior lgwerﬂuterine segment. This mass extends into
the endocervigalﬂcanal,fl.0 cm from the external SET'TEEWEaéé”is

smoOth and white on cut surface, extends 0.1 cm into a 1.1 cm
thick stroma. The posterior cavity is uninvolved by mass. In
place is a 13.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm white serpentine intrauterine
device. The endometrium is red/brown, smooth (<O.1 cm thick).
The myometrium is 2.3 cm thick, trabeculated with a single
homogeneous white whorled rubbery nodule (0.4 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm)
The left ovary and two parenchymal simple cysts up to 1.2 x 1.0

 

 

 

 

x 0.9 cm in greatest dimension each filled with a clear thin
fluid. The left fallopian tube, right ovary and right fallopian
tube are all unremarkable. Also within the specimen container
are 2 fragments of tan-brown nodular tissue measuring 4.5 x 4.5
x 3.2 cm in aggregate.

Tnking: anterior cervix/blue, posterior cervix/black. Tumor was
given to tissue procurement foundation.

Block Summary:

Bl — Anterior cervix with mass

B2 — Perpendicular of anterior lower uterine segment with mass,
one piece bisected

B3-B4 - Additional sections of mass

BS - Posterior cervix

B6 — Perpendicular posterior lower uterine segment

B7 ~ Anterior corpus with intramural nodule, one piece bisected
B8 - Posterior corpus

B9 - Left ovary

BlO — Left fallOpian tube

Bll — Right ovary

812 — Right fallopian tube

Bl3—Bl4 - Full length of full thickness perpendicular anterior

cervix with anterior lower uterine segment, one piece bisected

(B13 is anterior cervix, B14

is anterior lower uterine segment)

BlS-B17 — Perpendicular sections of posterior cervix

B18—B19 - Sections from the separate aggregate of mass

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination performed by Dr.

Procedures/Addenda:
Addendum

Addendum
Addendum specimen B: Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor

immunohistochemical stains were performed on the carcinosarcoma
tumor cells (slide B18).

Estrogen receptor: negative in tumor cells
Progesterone receptor: scattered positivity (1-2+) in <10% of
cells

For cases in which immunostains are performed, the following
applies:

Appropriate internal and/or external positive and negative
controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical
reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific
reagents (ASR). These were developed and have performance
characteristics determined by . These reagents have not been
cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is
not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They
should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This
laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to perform
high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

 

 

 

