zap—o - 3
ﬂo/etwoarcmoma N65

U S k a) 8/40/3
U1D;‘$EAGBAS4KE- 4AasﬁngsalfAB-9PCE-3-EAAA878234e0d I /
III III lllIlllllIlllllIIIllllllIIllllll|||||||||||||llllllllllllallllled cam/gag}??? ’4
Ill HIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIII llllll
Ill |||||l|||| I |||llllllllllllllllllllllllll llllllll "III" 910 WI 7/12

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Rectosigmoid
B. Appendix

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectosigmoid cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled
"rectosigmoid" is a 13 cm. long portion of colon. The specimen has
a suture marking the distal portion. This and is inked black, the
opposite end is inked blue. The ends of the specimen appear to be
not stapled. The specimen is partially covered with pink—tan,
smooth, glistening serosa and abundant yellow, lobular fat. There
is no retroperitoneal reflection. The specimen is entirely covered
with a portion of smooth, glistening serosa. The specimen is opened
to show possibly circumferential tumor which is 4.5 x 4 x 1 cm.
This comes to within 3.5 cm. of the distal margin. This shows gross
evidence through muscularis propria and into the fat, coming to
within 2.5 cm. of the radial margin. There is also a slight
umbilication in the serosa (focus is inked blue). The remainder of
the mucosa is pink—tan, smooth and glistening with normal to
slightly dilated folds, both having an average circumference of 5
cm. Lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat. Representative
sections of the specimen are submitted as follows:

BLOCK SUMMARY: #Al — Representative luminal margin; A2 - tumor to
serosal umbilication; A3 — tumor to fat; A4 - representative radial
margin; A5, 6 — nine possible lymph nodes each; A7 — six possible
lymph nodes; A8 — one possible lymph node; A9, 10 - one possibly
necrotic or positive lymph node sectioned; All — 12 - largest
possible lymph node, possibly centrally necrotic and positive.
RS-12.

B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled

"appendix" is a grossly unremarkable appendix which is 9.5
x 0.7 cm. This is partially covered with pink-tan, smooth,
glistening serosa and abundant yellow, lobular fat. The specimen is
sectioned to Show an intact wall with an average thickness of 0.3
cm. The lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.3 cm. and is partially
filled with red, dusky, diffluent material. No other discrete gross
lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are
submitted in one cassette with the proximal end inked. RS-l.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A. Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated

Primary tumor (pT): Tumor invades through the

muscularis propria into the pericolonic fat to a depth
of 5 mm. beyond the very attenuated muscularis
propria (pT3b).

Proximal margin: Negative for tumor

Distal margin: Negative for tumor

Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative for tumor

Distance of tumor from closest margin: 2.5 cm. from

radial margin and 3.5 cm. from distal margin

Vascular invasion: Lymphatic space invasion is

identified in extranodal foci within the fat. No
venous or arterial space invasion is identified.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): 10 of 23 lymph nodes are

positive for metastatic carcinoma (pNZ).

Non~lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate, pMX

Other findings: The largest metastatic lymph node

measures 1.4 cm. in greatest dimension. The surface of
the carcinoma is extensively ulcerated. A mild,
non~brisk, lymphocytic infiltrate is present
associated with the tumor. Although the
architectural features of the tumor are moderately
differentiated, in many areas, the nuclear features
of the tumor are more poorly differentiated.

B. Microscopic examination reveals an appendix with
fibrous obliteration of the tip, no tumors are identified
and no acute inflammation is identified.

5x1, 1x1

DIAGNOSIS

A. Colon, rectosigmoid, segmental resection:
Invasive, moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma,
invasive through muscularis propria into pericolonic fat

(pT3b).

The resection margins are negative for tumor.
Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in 10 of 23 lymph nodes
(pN2).
See microscopic description for template details.

E. Appendix, excision:
Fibrous obliteration.

——— End Of Report ———

 
    

  

Criteria

Diugmsis D«sr,rcuancy__
Pv' T-mmvSlxe

HIP/V! Dnnepnncy
7m;

  
 
  
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
   
 
 

Case}:
Rename! Initials

 
 

REVVEWSJ:

   

 

m»

