 

' - Pre-OperativelClinicgl History

Left renal mass

8 ecimen 5 Received
A: MARGlN- BASE 0F TUMOR LEFT KIDNEY MASS
I3: LEFT RENAL MASS

' Gross Description

Specimen A._ received fresh for frozen section labeled margin (base) of tumor left kidney mass, consists of three friable
tan soft tissue fragments that measure 0.2 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension. The fragments are entirely submitted for

frozen section' In (A1 FS').

Specimen B, received In formalin labeled left renal mass consists of a 12 gm, 4.0 x 4.0 x 2.5 cm aggregate 01‘ multiple
pink, friable to papillary soft tissue fragments admiXed with a small amount of adipose tissue. Representative sections are

' submitted' In (B1-6).

_ I! ra—opera Ive Consultation ' —

Specimen A frozen section diagnosis of “neoplasm present in one of three fragments” Is rendered b

- Microscopic Description

Sections of the ﬁrst specimen reveal a fragment of adipose tissue a fragment of. benign renal parenchyma, and a single
small fragment of papillary renal cell carcinoma, as described below.

Summary of Pathologic Findings
Rena! Carcinoma

7 ' Specimen BI
Operative'procedure: :- . ‘ ' ‘ Enucleation; robotically-assisted laparoscopic left partial :nephrectomy
Tumor size: 7 . . _ _ . _ The specimen was received morcellated and measured 4 0 x 4 0 x 2. 5
' cm in aggregate. Clinically, the tumor measured approximately 2 7 cm in
maximum dimensi'om . . . . .
' ‘ Laterality and focality: _ ' ' j- Left unifocai.
I I 'Histolcgic type: ._ _ I ' ; Papillary carcignoma type i. (The tumor demonstrates a papillary

architecture with delicate f brovascular cores lined by small cells with low
grade nuclear features. Clusters of foamy histiocytes are present within

Page 1 of 3

 

some of the cores. There is no evidence of necrosis or vascular invasion.
The specimen contains small fragments of adjacent renal parenchyma.)

 

Sarcomatoid features: Absent.

Histologic grade: Grade I'.

Extent of invasion: Cannot be determined.
Lymphivascular invasion: . Cannot be determined.
Margins: ' . Cannot be assessed.
Adrenal gland: ' Not submitted.

Regional lymph nodes: I Not submitted.

' Special studies:
The following immunostains are performed with the tumor cells staining as follows:

Fax-8 . Positive
P5048 Positive
CKT ' . 7 - Positive
CK20 Negative
Vimentin Negative
CD10 Negative
TTF—1 _ Negative.

These immunohistochemi'cal features are compatible with a diagnosis of papillary renal cell carcinoma

pTNM stage: The specimen was received morsellated, precluding an accurate pTNM stage. Staging In this
case relies on the clinical' Imaging. .

_ ' Pathologic ﬁndings in nonneoplastic kidney: insufﬁcienttissue.

Diagnosis-

LEFT RENAL MASS, RCBOTICALLY- ASSISTED LAPAROSCOPIC LEFT PARTIAL NEPHRECTOMY:
LOW GRADE PAPILLARY RENAL CELL CARCINOMA. . .

 

 

: : - 3' Intradei'artmeiial Consult
'3. Comment _
Positive and negative controls react satisfactoril .

    

 

Page 2 of- 3

 

 

- - HISTOLOGY REPORT ' _

 

 

Y - . ' summers” ‘- *E -- 'Pasesofsf

