Iii" ii...............u“m... I. 'IIIII'II

Pathology Report

 

uum-3F27cena-191n-4522-9c1n- -2aa7nnsiiéncac
Final Diagnosis

TCGA-BA- ADIS- 01A- PR
ﬁlllltlleCl
|||||
GALLBLADDER:

IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII ||“IIIIIIIIIII
III II
Gallbladder with no signiﬁcant pathologic abnormality recognized.

3. HEAD OF PANCREAS, DISTAL STOMACH, PGRTION OF DUODENUM,‘ STANDARD
PANCREATODUO DENECTD MY1
Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, with high grade dysplasia, pancreatobiliary type. of
the main pancreatic dude with microscopic loci otinvasive ductal adenocarcinoma,
well—differentiated, Iarg est microscopic focus is 1.0 cm.
Uncinate, common bile duct, pancreatic, proximal gastric and distat duodenal resectim
margins are all free of malignancy. See Key Pathological ﬁndings.

I the attending pathologis t personally reviewed that
entails cats-a and rendered the final diagnosis: Electronicaliy sigma-ct out by

Comment

The miraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm with high grade dysplasia is seen to involve the main
pancreatic duct with extension into the side branches. In the area of the Ampulla where the pancreatic
duct enters the duodenum, the neoplastic epithelium is seen to extend into the duodenum. In this
area, also there is microscopic invasion of the pancreatic duct wall. Howeveg there is not extrusion
into the wall of the duodenum,

Key Pathological Finding:
a: Pancreas—Exocrine Synoptic Data
SPECIMEN TYPE: Pancreaticodmodenectomy (Whipple resection}, partial pancreatectomy

TUMOR SITE: L’CEDL .
Pancreatic head a '3

Tumoaféze: Invasive: (I! - MNOS 8500/3
. 3 cm
TuMORBaéZELmCystic: an E .' 3% 1 ‘ Z c; 5' C)

*OTHER ORGANS RES ECTEB: a
*Duodenum t ,1, D 4/!6/19}
*Distat Stomach "
Ductat adenocarcinoma
HISTiDLOGlC GRADE Gt: Wail differentiated
EXTENT OF INVASION - PRIMARY TUMOR: Tumor limited to pancreas
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): th: Tumor limited to the pancreas 2 cm or less in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES mm: mm No regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 13-
Number involved: i3
DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed

MARGINS:
Margins free of tumor
“VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): *Abseni
*LYMPHATIG (SMALL VESSEL) INVASION (Li: *Aiaseni
‘PERINEURAL INVASION: ‘Preseni
*ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS:
*Chronic pancreatitis
IntracIuctai papiiiary mucinous neopiasrn, with high grade dyspiasia

Specimenis} Received
A GALLELADDER
B WHIPPLE BFS

Clinical History
PANCREATIC CANCER.

Preoperative Diagnosis
Not given.

Frozen Section Diagnosis
F38 W H iPPLE:

F831 Biie duct inargim negative.

F 332 Pancreatic margin, negative.
F383 Gastric margin, negative.

Comment This frozen section diagnosislresuitwas communicated to and acknowiedged by Dr.

Intraoperative Consultation
TOUCH PREP.

MARGIN:
Favor negative.

Gross Description

A. Specimen A is received fresh iabeied “gailbisdder.” The specimen consists a! a ciub shaped
measuring 13 x 4.0 x 2,5 cm. The external surface is gray-tan with 3 sm ali amount of adherent
fibroadipose tissue. The bite duct is identiﬁed and is. probe-Qatari measuring 0.5 cm in Iength. an
opening, no calculi is grossly appreciated. The specimen contains a moderate amount of green

biie. The wall measures 8.2 cm at its greatest thickness. Tire mucosal surface is green-yellow and
veivet Iike. No tissue is submiﬁed in the tissue procurement Iaboratory. Representative sections are

submitted as M.

B. Specimen E is received fresh for 0R consult labeled "Whipple specimen, frozen section.” The
specimen consists of the head of the pancreas, a portion of the duodenum, and a portion of the
stomach. The entire specimen measures 210 it 7.6 x 3.5 cm- The duodenum measures 140 cm in
length. The semsa of the duodenum is gray-tan and somewhat roughened. 0n opening the
duodenum, a moderate amount of bile stained material is expelled. No polyps or nodularilies grossly
appreciated on the mucosal surface. “the ampulla of Vater is not prominent. The pancreas measures
5.0 x 35 x 2.5 cm. On palpating the pancreas, a mass is grossly appreciated. The pancreatic duct is
not probe—patent and grossly appears to be involved by tumor. Where the pancreatic duct empties
into the duodenum. the duct grossly presents with a fisn~moutn appearance. On sectioning the
pancreas, the mass measures 3.0 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm. The mass comes to within 1 .0 cm of the pancreatic
margin of resection. The mass grossly appears to involve the duodenum and the common bile duct,
but grossly does not appear to extend to the attached stomach. No normal pancreatic parenchvma is
grossly appreciated. The attached stomach measures 7.0 cm along the greater curvature and 4.0 cm
along the lesser moisture. The serosa is tan—pink and smooth. The mucosa is tan and exhibits
normal mucosal folds. Sectioning of the attached adipose tissue isolates 3 possible lymph nodes at
the head of the pancreas. No additional lymph nodes are isolated. All attached adipose tissue is
submitted for processing. A representative section of the tumor is submitted to tissue procurement
laboratory. Three representative frozen sections are taken and submitted as FSB’t—3. Permanent
representatme sections are submitted as:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84: Mirror image of tissue. submitted to ti issue procurement laboratory

BS; Tangential peritoneal margin of resection

86: Pancreatic duct opening into the duodenum (ﬁsh mouth)

B7”: Pancreatic duct within the pancreas showing relationship to tumor

88: Tumor showing its relationship to duodenum

89:. Tumor showing its relationship to the common bile duct

Bio-Bit; Additional sections of tumor

812.: , Ampulia of Voter

813'. Grossty unremarkable duodenum

Bid: Grossly unremarkable stomach

B I 5:. Possible lymph nodes from the head of pancreas

316-822: All adipose tissue from head of pancreas

BEEN; All adipose tissue from the iesser curvature

825-340: All adipose tissue attached to greater curvature

M436 [“1 ‘Vel No/

(digits Discrepancv' ! L/ '
PI imary Tumor Site Discrsplncv i] V J
m a» W '* I I . j
21/:V;$:;°"5%T5) / DISQUAUFIEDL‘ #4

Reviewer Initials \Bmeviewed'

