— ' TCGAWA3-337U

TEST LSUIQiCaI .Pathcnlo '
Caused _
Result Name Resuits Units Reference Range

Surgical Patholog COPY TO:
coPY To: —

Pre-Op Diagnosis
Gallstones, left renal mass
Post-op Diagnosis
Same as above
Clinical History
Nothing indicated
Gross Description:
Two parts
Received in formalin labeled m 1 - gallbladder" is a
6.8 x 3.l x 1.3 cm intact gallbladder with a 0.2 cm cystic duct and
an attached suture. The serosa is smooth and tan pink to purple. The
mucosa is velvety and tan green. There are multiple round bosselated
yellow choleliths ranging from 0.2 cm to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension
and green bile in the lumen. The wall thickness averages 0.1 cm. The
specimen is sectioned and representative sections are submitted in
one cassette. _
Received in formalin labeled m 2 — loft kidney“'is a
265 gram nephrectomy specimen consisting of a 10.1 x 5.6 x 3.2 cm
kidnEy with a moderate amount of attached perinephric fat. There is
an attached 4.6 x 0.2 cm segment of ureter and a minimal amount of
attached renal artery and renal vein at the hilum. There is a 4.3 x
2.5 x 1.4 cm red yellow mass in the lower pole. The mass appears
focally above the inked deep margins.zThe remainder of the cut
surface consists of tan brown parenchyma. The corticomedullary
ﬁunction is well defined. The urothelium is glistening and white. No
additional lesions are identified. No enlarged lymph nodes are
identified. The adrenal gland is not present. The specimen is inked,
serially sectioned and Representative sections are submitted as
labeled: A - ureteral and renal artery margins; B - renal vein
margin; C-E - mass to inked deep margin; F — mass to capsule; G -
mass to capsule and uninvolved parenchyma; H and I - uninvolved
parenchyma. Also recei ’ me container is a yellow green and
blue cassettes lam-slimmer genomic research study.
"
Microscopic Description:
The slides labeled m are examined. See diagnosis.
Finaluniagnosis
Gallbladder (cholecystectomy):

Ghronic choleoystitis and cholelithiasis, PAS 6,2
Kidney, left (nephrectomy):

Tumor characteristics:
1. Histologic type: Conventional (clear cell) renal cell .
carcinoma "
Tumor site: Lower pole ‘
Size:-4.3 x 2:5 x 1.4 cm
Macroscopic extent of tumor: Tumor limited to kidney
Nuclear grade: Fuhrman grade 1—2/4 ‘
Lymphovascular space invasion: Ho unequivocal lymphovascular
pace invasion identified

Transcapsular invasion: No

Renal vein invasion: No

Vena caval invasion: Not resected
. AdrEHal gland: Not resected
Surgical margin status:

h-‘kDCDs’CDMU'I-DDJN

Q .

1. Soft tisSue margin: Negative
2. Ureteral margin: Negative
3. Vascular margin: Negative

Lymph node status:

No lymph nodes resected.
Stage:

pTlr Nx, Hx PAS 9 SPC-A

Page 1 of2

 

— - pagez on

CPT: 88307, 88304
Comments
This test has been finalized at the

#

Campus.

 

 

 

