UUID:DAB727C8-7E36-485A-BBC3-DB7
TCGA-IE-A4EK-01A- “CHEF”

Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllm ““3““
miinnllmllmnumumuiIliiiiil'iil'iiiiiiii'l'l'iimi'i'm

Ill lllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllll:

 

Operative Procedure:
Right laparoscopic retroperitoneal mass excision

Pre-Operative Diagnosis:
Leiomyosarcoma retroperitoneal

Post-Operative Diagnosis:
Same

Specimen Received:
A: Right kidney and retroperltoneal sarcoma (FS)
B: Paracavai lymph node

Final Pathologic Diagnosis:
A. Retroperitoneal mass and right kidney, resection:
Leiomyosarcoma, low grade. Please see cancer synoptic report.

Procedure: Radical resection
Tumor site: Retroperitoneal mass at the renal hilum
Tumor size: 6.5 cm (greatest dimension)
(a Macroscopic extent of tumor: Retroperitoneal
Histologic type: Leiomyosarcoma
Mitotic rate: 3/10 high-power fields (HPF)
Necrosis: Not identified
Histologic grade: low l Cb " a ' 5

M ' : Mar ins focail ositive for sarcoma ‘
argins g Y D [IA/”NW‘W , was “943

Pathologic staging (pTNM) coo? A ‘ “-H‘ CAR-0
TNM descriptors: Sift ~ [ix/1716M WW"

Primary tumor (pT): pT1b Pwa :_ WAN") I N0 4 (043]

Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO '
Number examined: 9 (part B) ﬂail l?
Number involved: 0

Distant metastasis (pM): pMX#

Additional pathologic ﬁndings: Tumor involves the renal vein.
Ureteral and renal blood vessel margins negative for tumor. Benign renal
parenchyma with no significant pathologic change.

Ancillary studies
None

 

B. Lymph nodes, paracaval, lymph node dissection:
Nine lymph nodes, negative for malignancy (0/9).

 

The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were
performed by the staff pathologist.

lntraoperative Consult Diagnosis:
FSA1: Ureter margin:
Negative for tumor.
FSA2: Mass with soft tissue margin:
Leiomyosarcoma, less than 1 mm to soft tissue margin.
FSA3: Vascular margin:
Negative for tumor on margin; grossly tumor invades to renal vein.
F/S TAT: 40 mins.

Gross Description:
Received are two containers each labeled with the patient's name.

Part A is received fresh for intraoperative frozen section diagnosis and
additionally labeled "right kidney and retroperitoneal sarcoma." The specimen
consists of a 1,230 g radical nephrectomy specimen with abundant attached fat.
It has overall dimensions of 26.7 x 14.8 x 13.7 cm. The specimen is remarkable
for a ﬁrm, somewhat well-circumscribed extrarenal mass at the renal hilum that
is 6.5 x 5.0 x 4.5 cm. This lesion grossly invades the renal vein. The ureter
margin is identiﬁed and submitted as FSA1. This remnant is transferred and
submitted in its entirety in cassette A1 . A section of the mass is submitted for
frozen section diagnosis as FSA2 to include its relationship to the inked soft
tissue margin. This is resubmitted for permanent in cassette A2. The vascular
margin is taken and submitted as FSA3 for frozen section diagnosis. The remnant
is transferred and submitted in its entirety in cassette A3. The cut surface of
the mass is white-tan and ﬂeshy with a vaguely nodular appearance. A gross
photograph of the lesion invading into the renal vein is taken. Further
examination of the mass reveals no deﬁnitive invasion into the renal parenchyma
proper. The kidney is now bivalved to reveal uninvolved renal parenchyma with
well-defined corticomedullary junction. No identifiable lesions are seen within
the renal parenchyma proper, however there is a single 1.0 x 1.2 x 0.4 cm,
thin-walled cystic structure identiﬁed. No other grossly remarkablestructures
are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

A4-8 multiple representative sections of mass to include relationship

to theinked margin and renal vessels;

 

A9 renal vessels at renal sinus;
A10-12 multiple representative sections of renal parenchyma from upper
to lower pole.

Careful examination through the attached fat reveals no adrenal gland present.

Part B is additionally labeled "paracaval lymph nodes" and consists of multiple
probable lymph nodes that are submitted in cassettes B1-3.

 

Microscopic Description:
The ﬁnal diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination
ﬁndings.

 

 

END OF REPORT

Taken:

” Gender: M

 

 

Turner

 
 

 

Care Reviewed:

 

  
  
  

   
 
    
   
 
 

l'""-""l "'-"I

