1

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

   

  
  

   

Patient Name: Acceulon t
MRN: Service: Coleen-d:
DOB: Vlsl #: Received: '
Gender. Location: Reported:
HCN: Facilly:

V Ordering MD:
Copy To:

Specimgnje) Rﬁelvﬁ - UUID : gag: f 221-13536}? Elia-9|}; - BBS 2503Aca9e1 d a C 1'. e d
imammmwm ‘ lllIlllllllllllllllIllIlllllllIllllIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
:- {W W: 3“- ang“ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

"““"" "°"“ '°°“”°“ °' iiiiiiiiiliiiiliiiilllulullllmlllinulmuumunmn

 

Diagnosig
1. Omentum: ‘
Negative for carcinoma

2‘ Uterus, cervix. bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes:

Uterus:

Endometrial adenocarclnoma, endometrloid type. FiGO grade 3/3 with:
- Invasion up to 50% of myometrium

- involvement of lower uterine segment

- Positive for glandular involvement of cervix

- Negative for strornal involvement of cervix

- Positive for Iymphovascular space invasion

Right and left ovaries: negative for tumor
Right and left fallopian tubes: negative for tumor

3.. Lymph nodes. right pelvic:
Twelve lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0/12)

4. Lymph nodes, left pelvic:
Thirteen lymph nodes negative for carcinoma (0113)

no De

Specimen: Uterine corpus
Cervix
Right ovary
Left ovary
Right fallopian tube
Left fallopian tube
Omentum

 

a Pegetofa
Mb» 0 *3

9: ,¢ MUM/30M“ LWLLf/uH/j Nos g3 570/3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

51+»: mdw C54" x»! n/urr.

 

 

 

 

 

” Surgical Pathology Consultation Report -

 

Procedure: Simple hysterectomy
Bilateral salplngo—oophorectomy
Omentectomy ‘
Lymph Node Sampling: Performed: Pelvic lymph nodes
Specimen integrity: Intact hysterectomy specimen
Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 5 cm
Histologic Type: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, not otherwise characterized
Histologlc Grade: FlGO grade 3
Myometrial Invasion: Present
i ; Myometrial thickness: 20 mm
‘ﬁ ' 50% or greater [nyometriai invasion "
Involvement of Cervix: Not involved 6 .
Extent oflnvolvement of Other Organs: ' '. ‘
it Right ovary not ligolved
. ‘ Left ovary not involved
Right fallopian tube not involved
Left fallopian tube not involved
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present 1“ .. .. . . .
TNM Descriptors: Not applicable » r '.
Primary Tumor (pT): pT1b (13): Tumor invades mar, the ‘ one’hall’oftthe myometrium ‘
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph up in taste
Pelvic lymph nodes examined: . _ - "
Pelvic lymph nodes involved: 0 » '
Para-aortic lymph nodes examined: 0
Para-aortic lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: None Identiﬁed
Electronically verified by:

 

Clinical H3395:
endornetrial ca

Gross Deurlmn
1. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as "omentum' contains a single piece of an unon'ented

fibroadipose tissue received in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue measures 10.5 x 7.0 x 1.0 cm and weighs 21.3 9.

On serial sectioning. the cut surface is predominantly fatty with no nodules identiﬁed grossly. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

1A—1E- representative sections submitted.

2. The specimen container is labeled with the patients name and as “Uterus, cervix. bilateral tubes and ovaries“ contains
a uterus. cervix, bilateral ﬁmbriated fallopian tube and bilateral ovaries received in 10% buffered iormalin.The uterus
measures 9.2 cm SI x 5.2 cm ML x 4.0 cm AP and the cervix measures 2.9 cm. in diameter with a 1.0 cm oval shaped as.
The right and left ﬂmbrlated fallopian tube measures 4.0 cm In length and 0.5 cm in diameter and 5.0 cm in length and 0.4
cm in diameter respectively. The right and left ovary measures 1.8 x 1.1 x 0.5 cm and 1.6 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm respectively.
The entire specimen weighs 166.3 g. The cut surface of the right and left ovary is solid in consistency and yellow—tan to
gray-tan In color. Both fallopian tubes are iimbriated and congested. The ectocerviwl and endocerviml mucosa are
grossly unremarkable. There is a friable, polypoid endometrial tumor mass occupying the anterior and posterior
endometrium extending from upper to lower uterine segment approaching the endocervix measuring 5.0 cm 31 x 4.5 cm
ML and with a depth of 1.2 cm into the myometrium. The tumor is grey~tan in color, solid in consistency and friable. The
myometrium is slightly thickened and contains multiple well—circumscribed nodules! ﬁbroid measuring up to 0.8 cm The
uterine across is congested with hemorrhagic ﬁbrous adhesions. Representative sections are submitted as follows:
2A—ZB- right ovary submitted in toto.

2040- right fallopian tube and right ﬁmbria submitted in ioto.

.— . W...

 

t.

m Surgical Pathology Consultation Report _

ZE-left ovary submitted In toto.

2F-2G—Ieft fallopian tube and left fimbria submitted in toto.

2H—2J—full transverse sections of the anterior endomyometrium with tumor

2K-2M-longitudinal section of the anterior endomyometrium from upper to lower including the cervix.
2N-2P-full transverse sections of the posterior endomyometrium with tumor

20-28-1ongitudinal section of the posterior endomyometrium from upper to lower including the cervix.
ADDITIONAL BLOCKS:

2T—2U— anterior cervix

2V-2W- posterior cervix

One piece of left fallopian tube. left ovary, right fallopian tube, right ovary and one piece endometrial cancer are stored
frozen. -

3. The specimen container labelled with the patients name and as “Lymph Node: Right pelvic nodes" contains a single
piece of an unoriented ﬁbroadipose tissue received in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue measures 5.0 x 3.8 x 2.5 cms. .
Wrthln the fatty tissue, multiple lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly ranging in size from 1.0 cm to 1.7 cm. The specimen is
submitted in toto as follows:

3A— one lymph node bisected.

38- one lymph node bisected

SC-one lymph node bisected

30- one lymph node bisected

3E-multiple lymph nodes.

3F-3J-remainder of fatty tissue.

4. The specimen container labelled with the patients name and as "Lymph Node: Left pelvic nodes" contains a single
piece of an unoriented ﬁbroadipose tissue received in 10% buffered formalin. The tissue measures 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm. .
Within the fatty tissue, multiple lymph nodes are identified grossly ranging In size from 0.5 cm to 1.4 cm. The specimen is
submitted In tote as follows:

4A- multiple lymph nodes

43- multiple lymph nodes

4c-4H-remalnder of fatty tissue.

 

 

p ’ Paooaoiz

