 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT
Case Number :

Diagnosis:

A: Uterus, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:

Cervix ‘cD/O’?’ S

— No tumor seen ’¢;Qm\{050¢/Com0(, N13
Sisqojs

Endometrium SfJo‘. CQCFZ hart/(“3,993

— Atrophic endometrium CQS.C)

— Endometrial ol , 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm MK; .

Myometrium (35%.;
— Leiomyosarcoma, tumor size 10 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm (see comment) ‘zfa3hl
— Tumor necrosis is present «Lo
— Tumor infiltrates the myometrium but does not involve the
endometrium or serosa
— Lymphovascular space invasion present (e.g. A10)
— Adenomyosis
— Leiomyoma, small, benign
— AJCC pathologic staging: ple, pNx, pr
Ovary, right, oophorectomy
— Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen ”um-$§gfg;_ﬁng9asﬂﬁgﬁ;-7A30DD8C8a5e9 dacte d
II I ll llHHlHIHHIHIIHIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

l
Fallopian tube, right, salpingectomy m
- No tumor seen m

l l
IIIIIIIHHHIIIIllIIIIIHIHHHHIIIHIIIIIIIIIHHHIlllll

Ovary, left, oophorectomy
— Atrophic ovary, no tumor seen

  
 
 
 

Fallopian tube, left, salpingectomy thfm.x,
— No tumor seen ﬂﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁmmq

“PM Disuapancy
‘rim Malignancy History

 
 
 

Comment:

Sections of the smooth muscle tumor in the myometrium show a
proliferation of pleomorphic spindle cells showing marked
cellular pleomorphism, significantly increased mitotic activity
(>10 mitoses per 10 high power fields counted), and tumor
necrosis. In addition, the tumor is frankly infiltrative (e.g.
A2) and lymphovascular space invasion is also present (e.g.
A10). Immunohistochemical evaluation performed on the previous
endometrial biopsy ( , supports classification as a

 

leiomyosarcoma. No carcinoma component is identified to qualify
for a carcinosarcoma.

Clinical History:
-year-old female with a pelvic mass.

Gross Description:

Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally
labeled "uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries." It holds
a 690 gram, 12.3 x 8.3 x 7.2 cm uterus with attached bilateral
adnexa. The serosa is dark gray and smooth. The 3.0 x 2.5 cm
ectocervix has a 0.6 cm patent os. The 2.7 cm long endocervical
canal is tan and trabeculated. Within the endometrial cavity
there is a 10.0 X 9.5 x 4.5 cm tan soft, somewhat nodular mass
with central yellow soft areas. The mass appears to originate
from the myometrium. The uninvolved myometrium is tan, firm and
up to 3.5 cm thick. The endometrium is tan—yellow and ranges in
thickness from 0.3 to 0.6 cm. There is a 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm
polyp attached to the anterior endometrium. On section, the
polyp appears to be contained to the endometrial surface.

The right ovary is 3.8 x 1.9 x 1.0 cm. The outer surface is tan
and smooth. On section, the cut surface is grossly unremarkable.

The attached fimbriated fallopian tube is 4.0 cm in length x 0.4
cm in diameter. Along the outer surface there are several
translucent fluid-filled cysts up to 0.6 cm. The remainder of
the outer surface is dark red and smooth. On sectioning, the
lumen appears patent.

The left ovary is 2.8 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. The outer surface is tan
and smooth. On section, the cut surface is tan/yellow, firm and
unremarkable. The attached fimbriated fallopian tube is roughly
4.1 cm in length X 0.6 cm in diameter. Along the length of the
tube there are multiple translucent cloudy fluid—filled cysts up
to 0.4 cm. The remainder of the outer surface is dark brown and
smooth. On section, the lumen appears patent.

Block summary:

A1 - anterior cervix and endocervical canal

A2 - myometrial mass, anterior wall; section taken with serosal
surface

A3,A4 - myometrial mass, anterior wall, bisected section to
include serosal surface

 

A5,A6 - endometrial polyp, anterior wall, base, bisected
section, full thickness

A7,A8 — additional sections of anterior endomyometrium to
include myometrial nodule

A9 - anterior cervix and endocervical canal

A10,A11 — myometrial mass, posterior wall, bisected section to
include serosal surface

A12,A13 - myometrial mass, posterior wall, bisected section to
include serosal surface

Al4,A15 — sections of posterior endomyometrium to include
myometrial nodule

A16 — right ovary

A17 — right fallopian tube

A18 — left ovary

A19 — right fallopian tube

Tissue remains in formalin.

Tumor is submitted to Tissue Procurement.

