( , ‘ Page 1 of 3

 

IIIIIiﬁiiIiTiIii’i’IiIﬁi‘IIﬁiIIIIIII'IiIiiired
III II I I IIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII I III
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
Time Collected Time Received 7
Time Reported 'I1me Transmitted _
Order Number Ordering Provider
Status Final Relevant Information
Location
Report Patient Name:
Demographics (for
verification purposes)
Sex: F
163 dB : O .5
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT @ﬂmbéaw items.» deaf/WEE 8550/3
*****Surgical Pathology Report****' H. .1 . ~ ‘
es 1 n umhe CV~ ' . ' . , .Lﬂ (7:255.C:)
:zileztzd we- Lowm/J ,ij
ec ived e/ ims ’ ‘ .-. ‘
1Iz’atflol09:13:“: T V0 O 2 L)

Specimen Description

A: Node 3 at

B: Periportal lymph node at

C: Proximal bile duct marqin at
D: Whipple‘s specimen at
Clinical Information

Pancreatic cancer

 

Diagnosis
A. Node 8 :
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma with focal extracapsular extension.
B. Periportal Lymph Node:
- Fibroadipose tissue only.
C. Proximal bile duct margin:
— Inflammatory changes, no neoplasia.
D. Whipples specimen:

- Poorly differentiated ductal carcinoma invasive into duodenum with
perineural, lymphatic and arterial channel invasion, present at the
uncinate resection margin -

Four peripancreatic lymph nodes with metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Reported by: ,
Electronically signed by:
Verified:

Synoptic Report
HISTOLOGIC TYPE:
Ductal adenocarcinoma
HISTOLOGIC GRADE:
G3: Poorly differentiated
MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION:
Tumor invades duodenal wall
MARGINS:
Margin(s) involved by invasive carcinoma
Uncinate process (ratroperitoneal) margin (nonperitonealized surface of the uncinate
process)
TREATMENT EFFECT (applicable to carcinomas treated with neoadjuvant therapy):
NO prior treatment
LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION:
Present
PERINEURAL INVASION:

 

. Page 2 of 3

Present
PRIMARY TUMOR (pT):
pT2: Tumor limited to the pancreas, more than 2 cm in greatest dimension
REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN):
le: Regional lymph node metastasis
Number examined: 5
Number involved: 5
ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: I
Chronic pancreatitis
Gross Description
Received are specimen containers A to n 2‘11 requisitions and specimen containers are
labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and identifiers
are labelled with the Surgical Number
A: The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin. The
container is designated A node a. The specimen consists of a single possible fragment of
lymph node that measures 2.8 x 1.3 x 0.6 cm with attached adipose tissue. The specimen

is serially sectioned. The possible lymph node is submitted in Al/Z and the remaining
adipose tissue is submitted in A3.

B: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated B periportal lymph node.
The specimen consists of two irregular portions of fibrofatty tissue measuring in
aggregate 4 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm. One piece is submitted in toto in Bl, other piece is bisected
and submitted in toto in 32/3.

C: The specimen consists of a ring-shaped piece Of duct which measures 0.2 cm in length
and 0.9 cm in diameter. Submitted in toto for quick section in one block.

Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated C proximal bile duct margin.

D: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated Whipple's. The specimen
consists of a segment of duodenum with attached head of pancreas. The bowel measures
approximately 25 cm in length with a circumference which ranges from 4 to 6.5 cm. The
attached head of pancreas measures 6 x 5 x 2.5 cm. The pancreatic body margin is inked
blue, the mesenteric vessel bed margin inked orange, and the uncinate process inked
black. Sectioning the pancreas reveals a firm light tan ill defined mass near the
uncinate process measuring approximately 2.5 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm. Grossly, the mass comes
within 0.1 to 0.2 cm of the black painted uncinate process margin. It is approximately
2.5 cm away from the blue painted pancreatic body margin. Grossly, the mass comes within
less than 0.1 cm of the external smooth mesothelial surface of the pancreas. The bile
duct is identified and upon opening, contains a stent. The bile duct measures 7 cm in
length and has a circumference of 2.5 cm at the proximal resection margin. The
circumference as it nears the ampulla is 1.5 cm. The mucosa of the bile duct is tan and
is hemorrhagic where the stent is found. The mucosal surface surrounding the ampulla is
firm and indnrated. where the mucosa of the ampulla and the duodenum is firm and
indurated, also corresponds to the location of the tumor which is found in the pancreas.
Found in the adipose adjacent to the pancreas, are four possible lymph nodes ranging in
size from 0.7 to 2 cm in greatest dimension. Sections of the specimen as follows:

D1. bile duct margin

D2/3. one section of the mass in the pancreas bisected. These sections also
demonstrate the

black painted uncinate process/retroperitoneal margin, as well as the
indurated duodenal

mucosa
D4/5. one section of the mass in the pancreas bisected. This section also shows
the black
painted uncinate process/retroperitoneal margin, as well as the indurated
duodenal
mucosa
D6/7. three sections of bile duct and ampulla
Da/9. shave section of pancreatic body margin bisected
D10. section of grossly unremarkable pancreas with identifiable pancreatic duct.

Also includes
a section of bile duct where the stent was located

D11/12. two further sections of bile duct where the stent was found

D13/14. proximal resection margin of duodenum ? distal portion of stomach bisected
D15. shave section distal margin of duodenum bisected

D16. one possible lymph node bisected

D17. two possible lymph nodes

D18/19. one possible lymph node bisected

Frozen Section Diagnosis
C: Proximal Bile Duct Margin:
- Low grade dysplasia
- Negative for carcinoma

Reported by:

Accession Number
Encounter Number
Patient Locatlon

Case

Initials

Page 3 of 3

 

