1460-53 5
TCGA- -v4- Asew- e1A- -PR ted 7(W_ WM ‘1

UUID: 7C41C1C2- -D-937 4DFC-9AalJ--“294413201.a

Ill llllllllilllllllllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllﬁfillllllfll

lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllll llillllllllllll nnI lllll mwew‘tmﬂd awe/3

lllIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIllllll 01th um“ Cép‘? 5
Enucleation of the left eye. . “Aha W QQJQW7’

91x3 pas/MIN

Macroscopy:

The eyeball measures 25 mm in diameter and the posterior optic nerve segment 6
mm. At the section, it presents a pigmented endo—ocular tumor measuring 18 mm
main line and 10 mm in thickness at the upper temporal region. Tumor specimens
have been taken for cryopreservation then the piece has been ﬁxed and included
entirely.

PM all mm; .

Microscopy M '5
The tumor observed macroscopically is a cell proliferation presenting the histological
features of an uveal melanoma. This tumor is mainly composed of fusiform cells
(60%) mixed with a focal component of epithelioid cells (40%). About 10% of the
tumor cells are pigmented. The cellular atypias are severe with frequent
anisoCaryosis and large nucleoli. Presence of mitotic features (ten mitoses per 10
high power ﬁeld).

The tumor invades the 1/3 inner part of the sclera, without extension to the 2/3 outer
part. The optic nerve in its entire course and cut end, the ciliary body, the lamina
cribrosa, and the meningeal sheaths are free of tumor.

Conclusion:

Uveal melanoma of mixed type, with a main component of fusiform cells and focal
component of epitheiioid cells.

Tumor size: 18 mm.
Tumor inﬁltration of the inner third of the sclera without extra-scleral extension.

Ciliary body, iris. anterior chamber. lamina cribrosa, optic nerve on its entire course
and meningeal sheaths free of tumor.

 

 

 

 

 

V4.00

 

TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form

 

 

 

 

Won; The TCGA Pathologic Diagnosis Discrepancy Form should be completed when the pathologic diagnosis
documented on the initial pathology report for a case submitted for TCGA is inconsistent with the diagnosis provided on the
Case Quality Control Form completed for the submitted case.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tissue Source Site ['l‘SS): __ ‘~___TSS identiﬁer: TSS Unique Patient identiﬁer: __ __
Completed By (Interviewer Name on Opt-malaise): _. Completed Date: __ m
[Diagnosis information ‘ l
# Data Element Entry Alternatives Workin Instructions
Provid med is/hi lztc b [)d d
. . . e e iagnos sto u so type 5 ocumente on
‘i’athologic Diagnosis 40% eplthelimd cells the initial pathology reportfor this case. nine histology for
1 Provided on Initial. this case is mixed, provide all listed subtypes.
Pathology Report 60% spindle cells
. . . h‘ 1 o: TCGAC
iztsoggggfefgﬁuwrigf 61-90% epithelmid cells gﬂfﬁgmﬁgﬂﬁﬁﬁﬂfﬂsﬂ: a"
2 for TCGA, as reﬂected 1—30% spindle cells
on the CQCF.

 

 

Discrepancy between Pathology Report and Case Quality Control Form

 

 

 

 

Biorepository Director

 

 

3 Provide the reason for Provide a reason describing why the diagnosis on the initial
the discrepancy The section of the frozen sample used for sending P?th°‘°$¥ “PM {W ““5 “a“ 1‘ “°”°“"’?"e“‘w‘t" 3"
between the pathology to TCGA corresponds to a section of the tumor dxagnosls selected on the TCGA Case Quality Control Form.
report and the TCG‘A where the epithelioid part is predominant.

Case Quality Control
Form. The percentages mentioned on the initial
Pathology Report correspond in an average on the
whole embedded sections used for establish the
Pathology Report
Name of TSS Reviewing Provide the name of the pathologist who reviewed this case
4 Pathologist or for TC“

 

I acknowledge that the above infonnation provided by my institution is true and comet and has been quality controlled.

 

TSS Reviewing Pathologist or Biorepository Director

Date

I acknowledge that the above information provided by my [maiden is true and came: and has been quality contmlled. Thetmeudlug Pathologist or the
Department Chairman has been injbrmed or is aware of the above discrepancy in diagnoses.

 

Principal Investigator Signature

Date

 

