uenuer': Female

Race : Whi te UUID: #:éﬁfzg:8:;g-Z4_§14£§ﬁ:-0664FA8DEBOA

‘ m"I”!!!HHHIHHIHIIH”NH”! RadaCtEd
5mm pathomgy Report :HIIIIHHIIIHHllllllllHlllllllllll'Hlllilll'l'lllml'{mm}mm
FINAL pATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS HlllllllllHlllHllllllllllllllllmIlllllHllHllllllllllllll

A. Left peivic 1ymph nodes:
— Fourteen 1ymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/14).

B. Right peivic ymph node:
— Fifteen 1ymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/15).
C. Biadder: . _ (I0§6€*“13S
— Urotheiia] carcinoma, invasive, high grade, With focal squamous
differentiation. ——-—‘——

— one 1ymph node with microscopic focus of urotheiiai carcinoma (1/1).
D. Uterus biiaterai tubes and ovaries:
- Atrophic endometrium.
— Myometrium with three (3) 1eiom omas (1argest osterior wai], 1.0 cm).
- Atrophic ovaries and unremarkab¥e fa11opian tu es.
E. Right distai ureter tip:
~ Ureter, no eVidence of tumor. gZIlQD—C>-C3

i' i ' h i ' , ‘
Urothe ia CarCinoma Pat 0 ogic Parameters Caramomow Uroﬁm/laj M05

Tumor type: Fiat urotheiiai carcinoma

Gradﬁ of tumor: High grade . 1 f I 3;);QCD/E3 .

Dept o invaSion: ExtraveSicu ar so t tissue .

Tumor distribution: 5.47;: Bach/em/MWIOV
Mu1tifoca1, 3.2 x 1.8 "largest size 657 a
Anterigr wai] . ‘
Uretera Margins: Ne ative

Distai urethral marggn: Negative 9/4) [ﬁ/ﬂ‘J/lz'
Lymph nodes: Negative (1/30)
pTNM: pT3a, N1, MX

#WNH

«Noun

xxx
[] M.D.

Interpretation erformed by the Attending Pathoiogist and reviewed with the
Resident or Fe] ow.

Eiectronicaiiy Signed Out by [], M.D.

Ciinica] History: . .
The patient is a_ year 01d femaie With biadder cancer who undergoes radicai
cystectomy With i1ea conduit.

Specimens Received:

A: Left peivic 1ymph nodes

3: Right peivic ymph node

C: Biadder

D: Uterus bi1atera1 tubes and ovaries
E: Right distai ureter tip

Gross Description: I . . .
The speCimenIis received in five containers each labeied with the patient' 5
name and medicai record number.

Page 1

A. Container A is further designated as 31. Left pelvic lymph nodes.4 Received
fresh and placed in formalin is an 8 x 5.2 x 1.9 cm aggregate of yellow,
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for putative ymph nodes.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Block Summary:

A1: five putative lym h nodes

A2: two putative lymp nodes, bisected (one inked black)
A3: two putative lymph nodes, bisected (one inked black)
A4—A6: one putative lymph node, trisected, in each cassette
A7: one putative lymph node, bisected

A8~A11: one putative lymph node in four pieces

A12-A14: one putative in three pieces

B. Container B is further designated as 32. Right pelvic lymph nodes.4
Received fresh and placed in formalin is a 6 x 6 x 1.2 cm aggregate of yellow,
lobulated adipose tissue which is dissected for putative lymph nodes.
Representative sections are submitted as follows:

Bl-BZ: four lymph nodes, each cassette

33—34: two l mp nodes, bisected each cassette (one inked black)
BS: one lymp node, trisected in multiple sections

B6-B8: one lymph node, trisected

C. Container C is further designated as 33. bladder.4 Received fresh and placed
in formalin is a 191 ram, 15.5 x 9.5 x 4.5 cm cystectomy specimen with attached
mesenteric fat. The ladder proper measures 7.5 x 7.5 x 4 cm, with a 3 x 2.2 cm
urethra. The right ureter measures 4.3 x 0.5 cm and the left ureter measures 4 x
0.5 cm. The external surface of the bladder is inked in black and the bladder is
opened along the lateral wall to reveal an ulcerated lesion on the anterior wall
measuring 3.2 x 1.8 cm. In addition, there is a 2.5 x 1.3 cm transmural defect
in the anterior wall at the level of trigone. The ulcerated lesion consists of
glistening, brown finely nodular and friable tissue. The remaining bladder
mucosa is unremarkable, glistening, pink-tan with normal mucosal folds. Serial
sectioning reveals tumor invasion to a depth of 1.0 cm, extending to 0.3 cm from
the inked mar in. Gross photographs are taken, representative sections are
submitted as ollows:

C1: urethral margin

c2: ri ht ureter margin

C3: le t ureter margin

C4— C7: multiple representative sections through the tumor including closest
extent to blac , inked margin

C8: representative section of grossly uninvolved anterior wall

C9: representative uninvolved section of posterior wall

C10: representative sections of uninvolved right and left bladder wall
C11: representative section of bladder dome

C12: representative section of trigone

C13: two putative lymph nodes

C14: ri ht ureter margin

C15: le t ureter margin

D. Container D is further desi nated as 34. Uterus bilateral tubes and
ovaries.4 Received fresh and p?aced in formalin is a 40 gram supracervical
hysterectomy specimen consisting of a uterus with bilateral attached tubes and
ovaries. The uterus measures 4 cm from cornu to cornu, 3.5 cm from fundus to
lower uterine segment and 2 cm from anterior to posterior. The cauterized
resection margin measures 2.5 x 1.2 cm. The left tube measures 5 x 0.5 cm and
the left ovary measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The right tube measures 7 x 0.5 cm
and the right ovary measures 2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The uterine serosa is glistening,
pink—tan Without nodules, however on the anterior and posterior aspect of the
uterus there are 1 cm linear serosal defects consistent with surgical
manipulation. The posterior aspect of the uterine serosa is inked in black and
Page 2

the specimen is opened to reveal a triangular shaped endometrial cavity
measuring 2.5 x 1 cm with a thickness of 0.1 cm. The uterine myometrium measures
up to 0.9 cm thick and is trabeculated pink-tan. The uterus is serially
sectioned revealing a subserosal posterior wall firm, white nodule measuring 1
cm in greatest dimension and an intramuscular anterior wall firm, white nodule
measuring 0.2 cm in greatest dimension. Both nodules are devoid of hemorrhage or
necrosis. The left ovary has a glistenin , pink-white surface. It is sectioned
to reveal homogeneous, pink—white cut sur ace. The tube is serially sectioned
revealing a pinpoint lumen and wall thickness of 0.1 cm. The surface of the
right ovary is glistening, pink-white. It is serially sectioned to reveal a
homogeneous pin —white cut surface. The tube serosa is glistening, pink-gray
and the tube is serially sectioned revealing a pinpoint umen and a 0.1 cm wall
thickness. Representative sections are submitted as follows:

01: representative posterior endomyometrium

02: representative posterior endomyometrium including nodule
D3: representative anterior endomyometrium including nodule
D4: representative left ovary

D5: representative left tube including fimbriated end

D6: representative right ovary

D7: representative right tube including fimbriated end

08: representative posterior wall surgical margin

D9: representative anterior wall surgical margin

E. Container E is further designated as 35. Right distal ureter tip.4 Received
in formalin is a 1.5 cm long x 0.4 cm in diameter piece of tubular tissue with a
scant amount of attached ye low, lobulated adipose tissue. The tubular tissue is
rubbery with a glistenin , pink—white surface and is patent at both ends. One
end has a clear, surgica suture. The specimen is serially sectioned revealing
% ggnpoint lumen and a 0.1 cm wall thickness. It is entire y submitted as

o ows:

E1: margin designated with suture
E2: entire remaining speCimen

XXX
[], M.D. Ph.

Page 3

I’
Yumov

HIPAA
Prior

(as: Is
Revcewer

 

