 

lob—0'3

’ k I“
,v _____ ._ , CW}: \ Lﬁmm‘jwm 9344/3
DEPARTMENT OF PATHoLOGY P WicmC‘L‘cW. 'I’Pﬁwmt Mm‘d 89b0/3

5f , Wm)” $73.9
ro MM sly/n [1/

Surgical Pathology Consultation Report

 

Patient
Name: Accession #:

MRN: Service: ' Collected:
DOB: Visit #: Received:

Gender: F Location: ‘ Reported:
HCN: Facility:

Ordering

MD:

Copy To:

 

§mimenisl Reg-giver!

1. Thyroid: left hemi stitch marks upper pole-for tumor banking

 

Papillamggtgingma, 2.7 cm. ONCOQWQYQFEQL with follicular nodular disease and follicular adenoma,
2.5cm: Thyroid
Double adenoma, one chief cell type and one clear cell variant: Parathyroid

- Left hemithyroidectomy specimen

    

W

Procedure: Left hemithyroidectomy _

Received: . . Fresh "”1”'iﬁéiifﬁﬁzﬁig‘ﬂfgﬁt‘;“"5"“di a ct: e d

3333333 'L'l‘i‘iiw llli’ll'lllilllll'lllHillll'llllilil'lll‘llll'illl'll'l"'
6.1 cm
2.7 cm Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllll
2.0 cm v r ,7 , , .
Isthmus +l- pyramidal lobe:
(1):? ﬁg PW 7% 212m, 7ch Mn is
0.5 cm '00 9- 4314::qu Vwiw". Iv

Specimen Weight: 20.6 9

Tumor Focality: Unifocal

--------------- DOMINANTTUMOR--------------

Tumor Laterality: Left lobe

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.7cm

Additional dimension: 2.6 cm
Additional dimension: 2 cm

Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma, oggocytic or oxyphilic variant
Follicular architecture ‘ " ‘ "
Oncocytic or oxyphilic cytomorphology

Histologic Grade: Not applicable
Margins: Margins uninvolved by carcinoma

Distance of invasive carcinoma to closest margin: 0.1 mm
Tumor Capsule: Partially encapsulated

Tumor Capsular Invasion: Present, extent minimal

Lym ph—Vascular Invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural lnvasion: Not identiﬁed

Extrathyroidal Extension: Not identiﬁed

TNM Descriptors: Not applicable

Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor more than 2 cm, but not more than 4 cm. limited to .
thyroid

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assigned

Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 0
Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 0
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable
Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma
Adenomatoid nodule(s) or Nodular follicular disease
Thyroiditis, focal (nonspeciﬁc)
Parathyroid gland(s), other: double adenomas

*Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition

 

The parathyroid contains two prominent nodules. one composed of chief cells and the other composed of
clear cells. These nodules each have their own capsule and there is an adjacent rim of compressed
atrophic parathyroid. consistent with these nodules being adenomas. ,. '

WA

 

Electronically veriﬁed
by:
MD
Gregg Qﬁcrlption .

The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "left hemi stitch marks uppervpole" consists of a left
hemithyroidectomy specimen that is oriented with a suture and weighs 20.6 g. The lobe measures 6.1
cm SI x 2.7 cm ML x 2 cm AP and the isthmus measures 1.6 SI x 0.7 cm ML x 0.5 cm AP. The external
surfaces have ﬁbrous adhesions. No parathyroid glands or lymph nodes are identiﬁed grossly. The
external surface is painted with blue dye. The upper pole contains a well-delineated nodule that
measures 2.7 cm SI x 2.6 cm ML x 2 cm AP and the lower pole contains a well-delineated colloid-rich
lesion that measures 2.5 cm SI x 2.7 cm ML x 2 cm AP . The remainder of the thyroid tissue is slightly
nodular. Sections of nodule and normal tissue are stored frozen. The remainder of the specimen is
submitted as follows:

1A-J lobe, superior to inferior

1 K isthmus

 

