UUID:91819D13-8938-4216-966F-93609EGBF4E7
TCGA-Gu-A763-e1A-PR Radaﬁlted

Ill IIIHIIHHHIIII lllllllllllllllilllillllllllllllllllllllllll
||||||||||||||||I|||||||I||||l|||||||||||||||
llllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll

 

 

 

Results BIOPSY OR SURGICAL SPECIMEN (Order “‘“""
Patient Information -
Patient Name MRN Sex DOB
’ Male '1 h
Result Information
Status Provider Status
Edited Reviewed
Entry Date

 

Component Results

 

Component Lab
Surgicai Pathology
i
I. ~_I 1:0va 6

Enema: ﬁg. 0 f \p ha 7. 1&0/‘1‘5
Procedure/Addenda aim/Md“) ”4 I (5120/2313
Image Analysis Date Ordered: Status: Signed Out M £ch ,1

Date Complete: ; 1‘21 1i mac ’

Date Reported: $461 0%! i (Q) (’47 ‘2 @2—
Interpretation 94 t) 9/ 3 3

Prognostic markers performed on block M27
BLADDER CANCER RECURRENCE SCORE
p21 by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:

Unattered

Percent Positive Average: 69%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7

p21 altered range (<10%)

p27 by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:

Altered

Percent Positive Average: 4%
Staining Intensity Grade: 1
HistoScore: 3

p27 altered range (<30%)

p53 by HO and IMAGE QUANTITATION:

Altered

Percent Positive Average: 74%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7

p53 altered range (>=10%)

Ki-67 by IHC and Image QUANTITATION:
Altered

Page 1 ofll

 

Percent Positive Average: 35%
Staining Intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 5

Ki-67 altered range (>10°/c)

Cyciin E by IHC and IMAGE QUANTITATION:

Unaltered

Percent Positive Average: 80%
Staining intensity Grade: 2
HistoScore: 7

Cyclin E altered range (<30%)

lNTERPRETATiON:
Prognostic Significance: Unfavorable
3 Biomarker(s) altered
Range: Favorable < = 2 altered blomarkers
Unfavorable > 2 altered biomarkers

Comment:

in the above tumor proﬁle the number of altered biomarkers improves the
predictive accuracy for patients with PTa-TS N0 Bladder Cancer. Greater than 2
altered biomarkers are associated with increased risk of recurrence.

Note:

Staining intensity based on O (neg) to 3+ (highest)

Percent Positive Average: Percentage of tumor cells staining.

HistoScore = Percentage oi tumor cells staining (Scale 0-5) + Intensity

(Scale 0-3).

These tests were performed IHC in coniunction with automated image
analysis. The performance characteristics of the above tests have been
determined in the , While some antibodies have not been
approved by the FDA, clearance: approval is not mandated. These antibodies
are well documented and clinically accepted prognostic indicators.

These tests should not be regarded as part of research investigations. Known
positive and negative control tissue show appropriate staining.

The above tumor bio-markers were performed per reflex protocol.
The system used for image quantitatlon is the

The method used for antigen retrieval is heat induced

epitope retrieval.

College of American Pathologists (CAP) required information for

predictive/prognostic markers. Type of specimen ﬁxation and detection system:
polymer detection kits are used on formalin-fixed parafﬁnvembedded sections.

Page 2 ofli

 

 

Clones user: p21 (SXiia); p27(SX5368); p53 (DO-7); Ki-67(MlB-1); Cyciin E
(HE12)

 

, prognostic markers performed at
the

Results—Comments
{Not Entered}

Final Diagnosis

A. Right ureter, ureterectomy:

- Reactive urotheilum

- No dyspiasle or carcinoma identiﬁed
- Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed

8. Left ureter. ureterectomy:

- Benign ureter

- No dyspiasia or carcinoma identiﬁed
- Frozen section diagnosis conﬁrmed

C. Left vas deferens, resection:
- Fragment of vas deference with mostly denuded epithelium

0. Left internal and external iilac lymph nodes, dissection:
- Three lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0/3)

E. Left obturator lymph nodes. dissection:
- Three lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/3)

F. Left common iiiac lymph nodes. dissection:
- Five lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/5)

G. Preaortic lymph nodes, dissection:
- Three lymph nodes. negative for tumor (013)

H. Right common iiiac lymph nodes. dissection:

Page 3 ofll

- One lymph node, negative for tumor (0(1)

 

l. Precavai and paracaval lymph nodes, dissection:
- Six lymph nodes. negative for tumor {0/6)

J. Presacral lymph nodes, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/2)

K. Right internal and external lymph nodes. dissection:
- Two lymph nodes. negative for tumor (0/2) .

L. Right obturator lymph nodes, dissection:
- Two lymph nodes, negative for tumor (0I2)

M. Bladder and prostate, radical cystectomy and prostatectomy:

- invasive. high-grade papillary urothellal carcinoma extending into prostate

parenchyma

- Prostatic adenocarcinoma. Gleason score 7 (4+3) (See attached CAP template)
~ High-grade prostatlc intraepitheliai neoplasia

- Resection margins negative for tumor

Specimen: Bladder

Other (specify): Prostate. vas deferens, lymph node
dissection. appendix

Procedurejgdjgﬁgyimmm
Mﬁﬂ—N

Tumor Site: Right lateral wall
Prostatic urethra and prostate

Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.1 cm

Histologlc Type: Urotheiial (transitional cell) carcinoma
Associated Epithelial Lesions: None identified
Urothelial Carcinoma (WHO 2004IISUP): High~grade
Microscopic Tumor Extension: Prostatic stroma

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma

 

Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Staging p3? ‘ "
Primary Tumor (pT : pT4a: Tumor invades prostatlc stroma

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No lymph node metastasis
Specify: Number examined:
27 .
Number involved (any size): 0 i
Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic F indlngs: Adenocarcincma of prostate (see attached
separate CAP template)

Ancillary Studies: Block M27 sent for ancillary studies, report to follow.

Page4of11

......m.~—..._...._... .

/ /
..r'f/

/ j

Procedure: Other (specify): Cystoprostatectomy

Prostate Size: Weight: Not available
Size: 3.8 x 3.1 x 3.0 cm

Lymph Node Sampling: Pelvic lymph node dissection

Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma (ecinar, not otherwise speciﬁed)
Other (specify): Urothellal carcinoma (see above)

Histologic Grade

Gleason Pattern

Primary Pattern: Grade 3
Secondary Pattern: Grade 4

Tertiary Pattern: Not applicable
Total Gleason Score: 7

Tumor Quantitation
Proportion (percentage) of prostate involved by tumor: 5%

Extraprostatic Extension: Not identiﬁed

Seminal Vesicle invasion: Not identiﬁed

Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma
Treatment Effect on Carcinoma: Not identiﬁed
Lymph-Vascular invasion: Not identiﬁed

Perineural invasion: Not identiﬁed

Pathologic Staging (pTNM)
Primary Tumor (pT): pTza: Unilateral. involving one-halfof 1 side or less

Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis

Specify: Number examined: 27
Specify: Number involved: 0

Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable

Additional Pathologic Findings: High-grade prostatlc intraepitheiial neoplasia
(PIN)

Ancillary Studies: Block M20 can be used for further studies if needed.

The above pathology diagnosis incorporates data elements as outlined in the CAP
Cancer Protocols and Checklists which are based on the AJCC/UlCC TNM, 7th
edition.

N. Appendix. appendectomy:

- Obliterated appendix

- No malignancy identified

0. Ureter, left distal margin, ureterectomy:

 

Pages of]!

 

- Benign fragment of ureter
- No dysplasia or carcinoma identiﬁed

P. Ureter, right distal margin. ureterectomy:
- Benign fragment of ureter
- No dyspiasla or carcinoma identiﬁed

Note
This case was reviewed at the

Clinical History

Bladder cancer ,
Radical cystectomy. prostatectomy. lymph node dissection lleal conduit. All
other indicated procedures

Source:

A: Right ureter

B: Left ureter

C: Left vas deferens

D: Left internal and external illac lymph nodes
E: Left obturator lymph nodes

F: Left common illac lymph nodes

G: Preaortic lymph nodes

H: Right common lilac lymph nodes

i: Precavai and paracaval lymph nodes

J: Presacral lymph nodes

K: Right internal and external lymph nodes
L: Rigt obturator lymph nodes

M: Bladder and prostate

N: Appendix

0: Left distal margin (ureter)

P: Right distal margin (ureter)

Gross Description

Specimen A. received fresh labeled with the patient's name and designated "right
ureter”, is an oriented tan tubular segment of tissue, 1.4 cm in length and 0.4

cm in diameter. There is a black silk suture at one and designated as distal per
the surgeon. The opposing proximal end is submitted for frozen section as A1.

Specimen B. received fresh labeled with the patient's name and designated "left
ureter”, is an oriented tubular segment of tissue, 1.5 cm in length and 0.4 in
diameter. There is a Prolene suture at one and designated as distal per the
surgeon. The opposing proximal end is submitted for frozen section diagnosis as
81. r

Specimen C, received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and designated
"lelt vas deferens“, is a portion of adipose tissue. 3.6 x 2.0 x 1.1 cm. One

surface is pink and glistening and serosalized. The opposing surface is focally
hemorrhagic adipose tissue. Specimen is serially sectioned showing focally
hemorrhagic adipose tissue and a tubular vessel, consistent with a blood vessel.
A discrete vas deferens is not identified. There are two cramped edges
approximately 1.0 cm in length. The specimen is submitted entirely with the
exception of the cramped edges at C1-C5. i

Specimen D. received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and designated
”left internal and external illac lymph nodes", is fragmented ﬁbrofatty tissue.
7.5 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm in aggregate. There are three possible nodes and a tan

Page 6 of 11

 

 

 

tubular segment of tissue. The nodes are 0.5 cm to 2.0 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm. The
tubular segment of tissue is 4.0 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. The
luminous is pinpoint and ill-defined. The wall surrounding the lumen is white

and fibrous. not resembling lymph node parenchyma. Representative sections are
submitted as follows:

Section key:

01 two whole nodes

D2 one node serially sectioned into ﬁve pieces

03 tan tubular tissue submitted entirely

D4 fibrous tissue for microscopic-nodes

Specimen E. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"left obturator lymph nodes", is fragmented adipose tissue. 5.5 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm.
There are three possible lymph nodes. 05 cm to 3.2 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. The nodes
are submitted entirely as follows:

Section key:

E1 two whole nodes

EZ-ES one node serially sectioned into eight pieces

Specimen F, received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"left common illac lymph nodes“. is 4.0 x 2.5 x 1.0 cm of fragmented adipose
tissue. There are three possible nodes. 0.6 cm to 2.0 cm. The nodes are
submitted entirely as follows:

Section key: .

F1 two whole nodes

F2 one node serially sectioned into five pieces

F3 ﬁbrous tissue for microscopic node

Specimen G. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"preaortic lymph nodes“, is fragmented ﬁbrofatly tissue with two staples. There

is a 0.2 cm tan node adjacent to one of the staples. The specimen is submitted
entirely as follows: '

Section key:

G1 one lymph node

G2 ﬁbrous tissue for microscopic nodes

Specimen H. received in formalin labeled with the patient’s name and designated
"right common illac lymph nodes" is fragmented adipose tissue, 4.0 x 2.5 x 0.6
cm. There is one 0.3 cm tan node. Representative sections are submitted as
follows:

H1 - one node

H2-H3 -' ﬁbrous tissue for microscopic nodes

Specimen i, received in formalin labeled with the patient‘s name and designated
"preoaval and paracaval lymph nodes" is fragmented adipose tissue, 4.0 x 3.5 x
1.2 cm. There are seven possible nodes. 0.3 cm to 1.2 cm. The specimen is
submitted entirely as follows:

it - ﬁve whole nodes

l2 - two whole nodes .

Specimen J. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated

”presacral lymph nodes" is fragmented adipose tissue. 3.2 x 2.4 x 1.1 cm. There

are three possible lymph nodes. 02 cm to 1.2 cm. The nodes and representative
ﬁbrous tissue are submitted as follows:

J1 - two whole nodes

J2 — one node bisected

J3 - fibrous tissue for microscopic nodes

Specimen K. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"right internal and external illac lymph nodes" is fragmented adipose tissue.
3.0 x 3.0 x 0.8 cm. There are two lymph nodes. 0.3 cm and 1.9 cm. The nodes

Page 7 ofll

 

are submitted entirely as foliows:
K1 ~ one whole node
K2 - one node serially sectioned into five pieces

Specimen L. received in formalin labeled with the patient's name and designated
"right obturator lymph nodes" is fragmented adipose tissue. 4.5 x 3.0 x 1.1 cm.

Specimen M:

Type of specimen: Urinary bladder. ureter stumps. prostate and seminal vesicles
The patient's name and case number on the specimen container match the
accompanying paperwork and cassettes.

Procedure: Radical cysteotomy and prostatectomy

F ixative: Formalln

Dimensions:

Bladder - 6.0 cm ~ superior to inferior x 7.5 cm - medial to lateral x 3.5 cm -
anterior to posterior

Right ureter - 1.6 cm in length. 0.4 cm in diameter

Left ureter - 1.3 cm in length. 0.4 cm in diameter

Prostate. 3.1 cm - apex to base. 3.8 cm - right to left x 3.0 cm - anterior to
posterior

Description of findings:

Tumor. There is a ten, ﬂuffy. lobuiated tumor in the right lateral wall. 2.1 x

1.1 cm. The tumor extends through the mucosa into the muscle and is greater
than 1.0 cm from the inked posterior adipose tissue.

involvement of important adiacenoies: None

Unlnvoived mucosa: The mucosa in the left bladder is edemetous.

right lobe.

ink code:

Bladder anterior - blue, hiadder posterior - orange, right prostate - orange,
left prostate — blue

Section key:

M1 ~ right ureterai orifice to ureter edge

M2 - left ureterai orifice to ureter edge

M3, M4 - bladder neck. green ink at edge of tumor for orientation
M5-M12 -.tumor submitted entirely from the right wait. Superior to interior
M13 - mucosa. right dome

M14 - mucosa. anterior wall

M15 ~ mucosa. left dome

M16. M17 ~ mucosa. left lateral wall

M18 - mucosa, posterior wail -

M19 - siab 1. prostate. right apex, seriaiiy sectioned

M20 - slab 2, left

M21 - siab 4, right posterior

M22 - slab 5. right posterior

M23 - slab 6. right posterior

M24 - siab 6. right seminal vesicle. right seminal vesicle. prostatlc interface
M25 - slab 1 . left apex. serially sectioned

M26 - slab 2. left plus a trimming piece

M27 - siab 3. left

M28 - siab 4, left anterior

M29 - slab 4. left posterior

M30 - siab 5. left anterior

M31 - siab 5, left posterior

Pass 8 ofii

 

 

Specimen N. received in formalin labeled with the patient'

"appendix" is e vermiform

7.0 cm in length and 0.6 cm in diameter. The mesoappe

M32 - slab 6. left posterior with seminal vesicle prostatlc interface (

8 name and designated

appendix with attached mesoappendix. The appendix is

N1 cross sections. proximal margin inked omnnn dicta] tip
N2 representative cross sections

Specimen 0. received in formalin labeled with the patient'

"left distal ureter margin" is

diameter. There is a Prolene suture at o

ndix is 6.5 x 2.5 x1.2
surface of‘the appendix

5 name and designated

a strip of mucosa. 1.5 cm in length and 0.7 cm in

ne end of the strip of mucosa. This

end of the specimen is inkedgrange. The specimen is bisected and submitted

entirely as 01.

Specimen P, received in formalin labeled with the patient'

3 name and designated

"right distal ureter" is a‘roughiy square portion of mucosa. 0.7 x 0.7 cm.

There is a black silk suture
The specimen is bisected a

Microscopic Description

on one side. The sutured side is ink

nd submitted entirely as P1.

The stain quality is acceptable.

ed orange.

A-P. The microscopic findings are reﬂected in the diagnosis rendered.

intraoperative Diagnosis

Time in: Time out:

A1-FS. Right ureter: "Negative for tu

Bi—FS. Left ureter. "Negative for tumor or high~grade dyspiasia.“

Reported to

*“Flnﬂfrﬁninnllu Rimmed Out

Results

Pathology Repog - Scan on '
Pathoi Re ort~ an on 1

Result History

By

 

BiOPSY QR SURGlCAL SPEClMEN

mor or high-grade dysplasia.‘

 

: Bladder Cancer Recurrence Score

: lntraoperative gonsultation Report

 

 

Collection information

 

- Order Result Historv Report.

 

Specimen Source Data and Time Accessron {it _
Other ’ ' .c
Lab information 7

 

   
 
    

 

 

‘ .4
Criteria Yes No
75.3... . _ {1&1
rum“ Triniarzrte‘oim‘eua'rizv i
. 'H EWCYL‘DAHKV R_H._ Vb—_V_ “::"‘;;>"'—: Page 9 of 1 1
WW MaligrranEyHislort _ ~‘7 J?._.,a_
i rural/swimonamPrimer/n ‘ 09'. 1' ' L_~,- __ .
}:15: is itircie): —— I I'.__. ' I" ‘ _~ __i
rilirvewﬂlliutialsr M6 2 are Retiet~i__.. _> ' ______ J
r m .
i .

