CGA-BA—4074

SLH?GH3A1.PAG11OLCN3Y

Diagnosis:

A: Vallecular lesion, biopsy.

— Fragment of lymphoid tissue and squamous epithelium
forming squamous crypts, no

tumor seen.

B: Posterior lateral tongue mucosa, removal.
— No tumor seen.

C: Right surface mucosa, margin, biopsy.
h No tumor seen.

D: Left surface mucosa, margin, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

E: Posterior muscle margin, biopsy.
* No tumor seen.

F: Right muscle margin, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

G: Floor of mouth mucosa margin, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

H: Floor of mouth muscle margin, biopsy.
— No tumor seen.

I: Left tongue, hemiglossectomy.

~ Squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated, tumor
extensively involves specimen with tumor size approximately
4.0 cm in greatest dimension, and diffusely involves deep
margin of resection (black ink).

— Medial and lateral margins free of tumor.

J: Right neck lymph nodes and neck contents, regional node
dissection.
- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma involving 2 of 22

 

lymph nodes (lymph node count by level: Level I ~ 1 of 2,
Level II — 1 of 4, Level III h 0 of 5, Level lV

— 0 of 8, Level V — 0 of 3), size of largest metastasis 2.0
cm in greatest dimension, with extracapsular extension of
tumor identified. Submandibular gland with no tumor seen.

K: Left neck lymph nodes and cervical contents, regional
node dissection.

— Metastatic squamous cell in 3 of 25 lymph nodes (lymph
node count by level: Level 1 — 2 of 4, Level II — l of 9,
Level III — O of 8, Level IV — O of 4), size

of largest metastasis 1.8 cm, with extracapsular extension
of tumor identified.

H Tumor abuts the connective tissue around the
submandibular gland, but no definite intrasubmandibular
extension of tumor identified.

L: Left Level I fibrofatty tissue, removal.
— Fibrosis and acute and chronic inflammation, no tumor
seen.

M: Floor of mouth, partial removal.

— Fragment of squamous mucosa and submucosa with minor
salivary glands present,

no tumor seen.

Comment:

Intraoperative Consultation:
A frozen section consultation was requested by I.

FSAl: Vallecular lesion, biopsy
- No tumor seen, lymphoid tissue and squamous crypt present

FSBl: Posterior lateral tongue mucosa, removal
— No tumor identified

FSCl: Right surface mucosa, margin, biopsy
— No tumor identified

'1. Tnﬁe ntmv-F ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ .‘v .: b: ... n
.L. .LICLL. ourrapc luapVDa, Margin, .LOPSX

— No tumor identified

FSEl: Posterior muscle margin, biopsy
w No tumor identified

 

FSFl: Right muscle margin, biopsy
— No tumor identified

FSGl: Floor of mouth mucosa margin, biopsy
— No tumor identified

FSHl: Floor of mouth muscle margin, biopsy
W No tumor identified

Clinical History:

The patient is with T2N2M0 squamous cell carcinoma of the
tongueand separate lesion on the right vallecula who
undergoes bilateral radical neck dissection and
hemiglossectomy.

Gross Description:

Container A holds tWO fragments of pink soft tissue
measuring 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm in

aggregate. (Block FSAl, NTR)

Container B holds a 0.8 X 0.3 x 0.3 cm red soft tissue
fragment; block FSBl, NTR.

Container C holds a 1.1 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSCl,
Container D holds a 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSDl,

Container E holds a 0.4 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSEl,

Container F holds a 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm red/tan soft tissue
fragment; block FSFl,

Container G holds a 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm soft tissue
fragment; block FSGl, -

Container H holds a 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm soft tissue
fragment; block FSHl, -

Container 1:

 

Specimen fixation: received fresh and fixed in formalin
Type of specimen: left hemiglossectomy

Size of specimen: 4.4 cm anterior to posterior, 3.4 cm
medial to lateral, and 2 cm superficial to deep

Orientation of specimen: A short stitch marks lateral, a
long stitch marks anterior; the medial margin is inked
green, the deep margin is inked black.

Tumor description: white, solid mass with an infiltrative
border; no necrosis or hemorrhage is identified

Location of tumor: tumor is located on the deep aspect and
runs almost the entire length anterior to posterior and

is located more medially

Tumor size: 4 cm anterior to posterior, 2.5 cm medial to
lateral, 1.2 cm superficial to deep

Extent of tumor: not applicable

Presence/absence of bone involvement: not applicable
Distance of tumor from surgical margins: 1.8 cm from the
anterior surface, 0.7 cm from the posterior surface, 0.6
cm from the lateral surface, abuts medial margin,
superseded by frozen; abuts deep margin, superseded by
frozen; abuts superficial surface

Description of remainder of tissue: The surface of the
tongue is pink/tan with a l x 0.2 cm disruption on the
lateral/posterior aspect.

Tissue submitted for special investigation: none

Lymph nodes: submitted separately as neck dissection

Block Summary:

Sections submitted from anterior to posterior.
ll—i4 — representative sections of tumor abutting deep

margin
IS — representative section of lateral superficial

 

disruption_
I6 H representative section of tumor abutting medial margin

Container J is additionally labeled "right neck contents."
It contains a 14 x 8 x 2 cm segment of soft tissue
including Levels I—V. Level I contains a 4 x 2 x 0.7 cm
gland with a tan lobulated cut surface which does not
appear involved by tumor. Three lymph node candidates are
identified ranging in size from 0.5 to 1.4 cm. The

largest is bisected.

Jl — one lymph node candidate, bisected; two additional
candidates

J2 ~ additional fatty tissue

J3 w representative section of gland

Level II contains a 2 x 1.8 x 1.2 cm lymph node candidate
identified which is grossly positive for tumor with a tan
cut surface exhibiting areas of hemorrhage and

necrosis. A l cm.portion of vessel with a diameter of 0.7
cm is identified and opened to reveal a smooth surface
uninvolved by tumor.

J4,J5 — large lymph node candidate, quadrisected
J6,J7 — additional representative tissue

In Level III, two lymph node candidates are identified
ranging in size from 0.4 to 0.9 cm as well as additional
adipose tissue and skeletal muscle.

J8 — lymph node candidate, submitted whole
J9,JlO — additional tissue with possible lymph node

candidate

Level IV: Four lymph node candidates are identified ranging
in size from 0.3 to 0.5 cm.

Jll — four lymph node candidates

J12,J13 — additional fatty tissue with possible lymph node
candidates

Level V: No large nodes are identified.

Jl4,J15 — soft tissue with possible lymph node candidate

Container K is additionally labeled ”left neck.” It
contains a 16 x 7.2 x 3.2 cm segment of tissue with Levels

 

I-IV.

Level I contains a 5 x 2 x 1 cm gland with tan lobulated
cut surface on one end and

a white/tan grossly positive cut surface of the other end.
One lymph node candidate

is identified measuring 2 cm in greatest diameter and is
grossly positive on cut

surface.

Kl—KZ — representative sections of grossly involved gland
K3 ~ representative section of uninvolved portion of gland
with one

lymph node candidate

K4 ~ one lymph node candidate, bisected

Level II contains seven lymph node candidates ranging in
size from 0.6 to 1.7 cm.
The largest is bisected to reveal a white cut surface.

K5 — largest node, bisected and two additional small nodes
K6 — four lymph node candidates

K7—K8 — additional tissue with possible lymph node
candidate

Level III contains five lymph node candidates ranging in
size from 0.6 to 0.9 cm.

K9 H five lymph node candidates
K10 m additional representative tissue with possible lymph
node candidate

Kll,Kl2 - additional representative tissue with possible
lymph node candidate

Level IV contains no large lymph node candidates. The soft
tissue is submitted in
blocks KlB—KlB.

Container L is additionally labeled "left Level I
fibrofatty tissue." It contains a
1.5 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm segment of pinkftan so

Ll, NTR.

Container M is additionally labeled "floor of mouth." It
contains a 1.6 x 1.0 X 0.4 cm segment of brown soft tissue;

 

block Ml, -

Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed by -

(Specimen I)

Histologic tumor type: squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade: poorly differentiated

Tumor extent: Tumor extensively involves the glossectomy
specimen and measures approximately 4.0 cm in greatest

dimension.

Presence/absence of angiolymphatic space invasion: not
definitively identified

Histologic assessment of surgical margins: deep margin
extensively involved with tumor

Lymph nodes: Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 2 of 22
right neck nodes, metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 3

of 25 left neck nodes.

Size of largest nodal metastasis (greatest dimension): 2.0
cm on right, l.8 cm on left

Presence/absence of extranodal extension: present,
bilaterally

Other significant findings: not applicable

 

