uuxn:e7sA5515-51E3-47F5-A49s-cesa7na7rses
TCGA-EP-AZGS-Bl - d

mnuumumnumumIIluﬁnTﬁmnnuIull'ﬁﬁl

IH llllllllllllllll llllllllllll II III! II lllllllllllllll II" II I‘ll

 

I“Ill”l“Ill“ll”lllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllll

acted
llllll

/CA «0'3
. MA M’ACMJ’MS 3/70/3
$fz:[@km caa.0 /®/ totzﬁ!

DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE

Date Coll-
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

SPECIMEN
A. Gastrohepatic lymph node
B. Left lateral segment, stitch anterior

CLINICAL NOTES
PRE—OP DIAGNOSIS: Liver cancer.

GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. Received fresh labeled "gastroheptic lymph node" are

two rubbery tan—red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes
averaging 1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimens are bisected
and entirely submitted independently in two blocks (one bisected
node per cassette).

B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left

lateral segment, stitch anterior" is a wedge shaped 12 x
5.8 x 3.5 cm portion of focally cauterized red—brown liver
parenchyma with a single suture designating anterior as stated
previously. A palpable slightly protuberant lesion is noted along
the anterior surface of the specimen. The anterior and posterior
aspects in the vicinity of the mass are inked orange. The hepatic
capsule is focally cauterized smooth to scabrous tan pink-red. On
sectioning, there is a well circumscribed, 4.2 x 3 x 3 cm golden
brown mass lesion which extends to within 1 cm of the inked
cauterized resection margin (blue) and is within 0.25 cm of the
inked capsular surface, both anteriorly (blocks 4 and 5) and
posteriorly (blocks 6 and 7). A portion of tumor and a portion of
normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested.
The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the specimen is uniform
red brown without additional mass lesion or abnormality.
Representative sections are submitted in ten blocks as labeled.
RS—lO.

BLOCK SUMMARY: 1—3 — Tumor to inked margin of resection; 4—7 —
tumor to inked capsular surface; 8—10 - random from remainder of
specimen. "

r

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
A., B. Microscopic examination of the left lateral segment
of liver partial hepatectomy as well as the separately
submitted gastrohepatic lymph nodes reveals:

Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma.

Histologic grade: 2 of 4 (moderately-differentiated).

Tumor size: 4.2 cm. in greatest dimension.

Primary tumor (pT): No extension beyond the hepatic parenchyma is

identified. No lymphatic space invasion is identified. (pTl).

Margins of resection: Negative for tumor.

Vascular invasion: A focal area suggestive of vascular invasion is

identified in slide Bl. No staining around tumor cells with CD31,
CD34, or D2~4O immunohistochemical stains was identified.
Multiple levels were examined and no diagnostic vascular invasion
was seen.

Regional lymph nodes (pN): The two gastrohepatic lymph nodes

submitted in specimen A are both negative for tumor (pNO).

Distant metastasis (pM): Cannot evaluate, pr.

Other findings: The tumor is notable for steatosis and bile

accumulation within acini. The background hepatic parenchyma is
notable for some mild non—specific chronic portal inflammation. No
background hepatocellular necrosis is identified. No significant
background steatosis is identified. No iron accumulation is
identified. There is a significant amount of lipofuscin granules.
No PAS positive diastase msistant alpha-l antitripsin globules
are identified. No hyaline is identified. Trichrome,
reticulin, PAS, PAS with diastase and iron stains were evaluated
on block B9.

3, 4, 18x5, 20x3

[A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as
analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and
controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro
diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have
not been cleared or approved by the FDA.]

DIAGNOSIS

A. Gastrohepatic lymph nodes, biopsy:

Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy.
. Lipogranulomatous inflammation present.

B. Liver,)left lateral segment, partial hepatectomy:
Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately—differentiated (grade
2).
Solitary tumor, 4.2 cm. in size. No lymphovascular space
invasion identified (pTl).
Margins of resection negative for tumor.
Background hepatic parenchyma with non—specific grade 1 of 4

chronic hepatitis with no Significant fibrosis.

-~- End Of Report -—-

 

