       

regfgrg 'n~ ~ ya it,”
Warm, “Mimi! Nos 8|ao|3
Sm Gnu.- brawl Has c919 Maul/2:

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Patient Name: Accession #:

Med_ Rem #: Date of Procedure:

DOB: (Age: Location: Date of Receipt: ..

Gender: M Service: Urology Date of Report:

Ref. Physician: Account #:

Patient Address: Billing Type: lNPATIENT
Additional Copy to:

Ref. Source:

 

Clinical Diagnosis 8- History:
Bladder carcinoma and sigmoid mass.

Specimens Submitted:

1: Mesentery; biopsy

2: Appendix. terminal ileum, sigmoid, bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy and partial colectomy
3: Lymph nodes, leit pelvic; excision

4: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; excision

5: Lymph nodes. pre-sacral; excision

6: Lymph nodes, right common iliac; excision
7: Lymph nodes. left common iliac; excision
8: Vas deferens, right; resection

9: Vas deferens left; resection

10: Ureter, left distal; resection

11: Ureter, right distal; resection

12: Donut, distal; excision

13: Donut. proximal; excision

a 14: Hernia sac; excision

DIAGNOSIS:

1. Mesentery; biopsy:
-Benign ﬁbrous tissue with chronic inﬂammation.

2. Appendix, terminal ileum, sigmoid, bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy and partial colectomy:

Tumor Type:
Invasive urothelial carcinoma, NOS
Histologic Grade:
High grade
. _ - . - 3146
Pattern ofgrowth of the Non-Invasive component: UUID.EFF72FEC 980C 42m 5209 17625E65 Redacted

in situ component not identiﬁed

Tmbmduﬁmﬁﬁmwmmmmmmm
Imwwmwwwwimmmmmmmmmmnn
nmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmi

Pattern of growth of the Invasive component:
Inverted / Nodular

l
l
l

Tumor Multicentricity:
Not identiﬁed

Bladder Local Invasion: mum“:
Superﬁcial half of muscularis propria My

Extravesical Tumor Extension:
Ureters uninvolved
Urethra uninvolved

 

Page 1 of 8

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

w

5

0|

Vascular Invasion:
Identiﬁed

Perineural Invasion:
Not identiﬁed

Surgical Margins:
Free of tumor

Non-Neoplastic Mucosa:
Exhibiting ulceration
Exhibiting foreign body reaction
Exhibiting proliferative cystitis (Brunn's nests, cystitis cystica, cystitis glandularis)

Prostate:
Other Focal HGPIN

Seminal Vesicles:
Not involved

Perivesical Lymph Nodes:
LN Not involved 13

The Pathologic Stage is (AJCC 2002):
pT2a (Invades superﬁcial half of muscularis propria)

PRO (No involvement of prostate)

 

Colon with diverticulitis, diverticulosis and associated soft tissue ﬁbrosis.
No tumor seen.
Ten benign lymph nodes (0/10).

Small intestine with areas of mucosal congestion.
No tumor seen.

Benign appendix.

. Lymph nodes, left pelvic; excision:

Lymph Nodes:
Number of nodes examined:5
Number of metastatic nodes:1
The largest metastatic node is 2.1cm
Perinodal (extracapsular) extension not identiﬁed

 

. Lymph nodes, right pelvic; excision:

Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:5

 

. Lymph nodes, pro-sacral; excision:

Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:1

 

 

Page 2 of 8

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

6. Lymph nodes, right common iliac; excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:5

 

7. Lymph nodes, left common iliac; excision:
Lymph Nodes:
Not involved
Number of nodes examined:1

 

8. Vas deferens, right; resection:
~Benign segment of vas deferens.

9. Vas deferens left; resection:
-Benign segment of vas deferens.

10. Ureter, left distal; resection:
-Benign segment of ureter.

11. Ureter, right distal; resection:
-Benign segment of ureter.

12. Donut, distal; excision:
-Benign colonic mucosa.

13. Donut, proximal; excision:
-Benign colonic mucosa.

14. Hernia sac; excision:
-Benign ﬁbroadipose tissue.

l ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES (AND/OR OTHER MATERIAL), AND THAT I HAVE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.

“* Report Electronically Signed Out “* 1

 

Gross Description:

1.) The specimen is received fresh for frozen section consultation, labeled "Biopsy of the mesentery" and consists of a single
fragment of pink-tan soft tissue measuring 0.3 cm. Entirely submitted for frozen section.

Summary of sections:
FSC - frozen section control

2.) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "appendix, terminal ileum, sigmoid, bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles". It
consists of a bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, 13.5 x 4.0 (circumference) cm segment of terminal ileum, 24.0 x 7.0
(circumference) cm segment of colon, and 5.5 x 0.7 cm appendix. The specimen measures 18.5 cm from superior to inferior, 19.0
cm laterally and 9.0 cm from anterior to posterior. The anterior aspect of the bladder is inked black and the posterior blue. The
prostatic urethral margin is shaved and submitted. The bladder is opened along the anterior midline to reveal a polypoid and focally
necrotic mass associated with an area of ulceration measuring 0.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm which is grossly situated within the right anterior
lateral wall. The lesion measures 2.7 cm from the left ureteral oriﬁce and less than 0.1 cm from the right ureteral oriﬁce. Both
ureters are probe patent measuring up to 0.2 cm in maximum diameter. The lesion is sectioned to reveal a partially necrotic mass
that extends to the anterior lateral perivesical fat. Extension to the inked fat is grossly not identiﬁed. The remaining bladder

 

Page 3 of 8

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

mucosa is focally erythematous and unremarkable. Polypoid lesions are identiﬁed in the distal prostatic urethra. Discrete
perivesical lymph nodes are not grossly identiﬁed. The prostate measures 3 cm base to apex, 3.5 cm laterally, and 2.5 cm anterior
to posterior. The right seminal vesicle measures 3.0 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm. The left seminal vesicle measures 2.8 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The
prostate is serially sectioned to reveal tan cut surfaces with no masses identiﬁed. The accompanying segments of intestine are
ﬁrmly adherent to the posterior aspect of the bladder wall. Cut surfaces of the ﬁbrous areas connecting the segments of intestine
show a diverticulum with peridiverticular ﬁbrosis. The sigmoid colon is opened to show multiple polyps that range in size from 0.1
to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension. The polyps are located 3 cm from the distal margin and 21 cm from the proximal margin. The
remainder of the sigmoid colon shows multiple diverticula with the remaining mucosa being unremarkable. The unoriented terminal
ileum is opened to show an erythematous mucosa. Cut surfaces of the appendix are unremarkable. Multiple peri-colonic lymph
nodes are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted including two sections from each prostatic quadrant and transition
zone. ' ﬁtted. Photographs are taken.

Summary of sections:

UTHM - urethral margin

RUM —- right ureter margin

LUM — left ureter margin

L— lesion

RUO - right ureter oriﬁce

LUO — left ureter oriﬁce

LP — left posterior wall

LA - left anterior wall

RP — right posterior wall

RA - right anterior wall

TRl — trigone

DOM - dome

F - perivesical fat

RSV — right seminal vesicle

LSV — left seminal vesicle

RA - right apex prostate

LA — left apex prostate

RAM — right anterior mid prostate
RPM - right posterior mid prostate
LAM - left anterior mid prostate
LPM — left posterior mid prostate
RAB -— right anterior base prostate
RPB - right posterior base prostate
LAB - left anterior base prostate
LPB - left posterior base prostate
DCM - distal colonic margin

PCM — proximal colonic margin
CP - colonic polyps

RC — random colon

TIC - diverticula

TIM — terminal ileum margins

Tl - random terminal ileum

APP —- appendix, representative sections
CLN - pericolonic lymph nodes

3.) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue which contains ﬁve
lymph nodes measuring between 0.4 and 1.4 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN1 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN2 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN3 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN4 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN5 - lymph node serially sectioned

 

Page 4 of 8

 

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

4.) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "left pelvic lymph nodes" and consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue which contains ﬁve
lymph nodes measuring between 0.6 and 2.0 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN1 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN2 - lymph node serially bisected
LN3 - lymph node serially sectioned
LN4 - lymph node serially bisected
LN5 - lymph node serially bisected

5.) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "pre sacral lymph nodes" and consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue which contains two
possible lymph nodes measuring 0.3 and 0.2 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN — two possible lymph nodes

6.) The specimen is received fresh, labeled "right common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue which contains
ﬁve lymph nodes measuring between 0.3 and 1.2 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:

LN1 - two lymph nodes
LN2 - lymph node bisected
LN3 - lymph node bisected
LN4 - lymph node bisected

7.) The specimen is received fresh. labeled "left common iliac lymph nodes" and consists of yellow-tan fatty tissue which contains
one lymph node measuring 0.4 cm in diameter. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
LN - one lymph node, bisected

8.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "right vas deferens“ and consists of an unoriented 6.0 by 0.4 (diameter) cm
segment of vas deferens. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
E -— ends
R — remainder

9.) The specimen is rewived in formalin, labeled "left vas deferens" and consists of an unoriented 5.1 by 0.5 (diameter) cm
segment of vas deferens. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
E — ends
R — remainder

 

Page 5 of 8

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

10.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "left distal ureter" and consists of an unoriented 1.6 by 05 (diameter) cm
tubular fragment of soft tissue. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
E — ends
R — remainder

11.) The specimen is received in formalin. labeled "right distal ureter" and consists of an unoriented 0.5 by 0.4 (diameter) cm
tubular fragment of soft tissue. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
U — undesignated

12,) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "distal donut" and consists of a segment of intestine closed by a 1.6 cm staple
line. The other end is received open. The donut measures 1.4 cm (length) by 1.6 cm (diameter). The specimen is opened to
show a 0.2 cm polyp. The polyp is located 1.0 cm from the staple line. Entirely submitted.

Summary of sections:
SL - staple line

P - polyp

R — remainder

13.) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled “proximal donut" and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 4.5 x
1.0 x 0.5 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures
and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Also accompanying the specimen is a 4.2 x 2.9 cm nail shaped
metallic device.

Summary of sections:
U-undesignated

14,) The specimen is received in formalin, labeled "hernia sac" and consists of an 8.0 x 5.0 x 1.6 cm fragment of ﬁbroadipose
tissue. No masses or lesions are identiﬁed. Representative sections are submitted.

Summary of sections:
U — undesignated

Summag of Sgcgions:
Part 1: Mesentery; biopsy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 fsc 1

Part 2: Appendix, terminal ileum, sigmoid, bladder, prostate and seminal vesicles; cystoprostatectomy and partial
colectomy

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 APP 4
4 CL N 4

 

Page 6 of 8

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

 

4 CP 9
1 DCM 1
2 DOM 4
4 F 4
6 L 6
3 LA 5
1 LAB 1
1 LAM 1
2 LP 4
1 LPB 1
1 LPM 1
1 st 1
1 LUM 1
1 LUO 1
1 PCM 1
3 RA 5
1 RAB 1
1 RAM 1
1 RC 1
2 RP 4
1 RPB 1
1 RPM 1
1 RSV 1
1 RUM 1
1 RUO 1
1 TI 2
3 TIC 5
1 TIM 2
2 TRI 4
. 1 UTHM 1

Part 3: Lymph nodes, left pelvic; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 LN1 0
2 LN2 O
1 LN3 O
1 LN4 0
1 LN5 0

Part 4: Lymph nodes, right pelvic; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
3 LN1 O
2 LN2 0
3 LN3 0
2 LN4 0
1 LN5 0

Part 5: Lymph nodes, pro-sacral; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 LN 0

Part 6: Lymph nodes, right common iliac; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 LN1 0
1 LN2 O

a 1 LN3 o

Page 7 of 8

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT
1 LN4 0

Part 7: Lymph nodes. left common iliac; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 LN 1

Part 8: Vas deferens, right; resection

  
 
   
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

          
 

Block Sect. Site PCs

1 E 2

1 R 10 $1: WLAJHL.
Primarviumcrsltngsiru an ._ I

Part 9: Vas deferens left; resection Wﬁﬂ‘”‘—' ‘ IT,‘

Block Sect. Site PCs 1.11m? "1m..." 3353:1524- _c_-Jn_-=~. am“ 1 ‘

1 E Its—vigerinitisls" Date Reviewed: ’3 _ __ __.

1 R 10 _. _ _ ' Tiﬂ‘l

Part 10: Ureter, left distal; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs

1 E 2

1 R 4

Part 11: Ureter, right distal; resection

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 2

Part 12: Donut, distal; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 P 1
1 R 4
1 SL 1

Part 13: Donut, proximal; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
2 U 10

Part 14: Hernia sac; excision

Block Sect. Site PCs
1 U 2

Ingrgogerative Consultatign:

Note: The diagnoses given in this section pertain only to the
tissue sample examined at the time of the intraoperative
consultation.

1. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: SP: Biopsy mesentery . Benign ﬁbrous tissue with inﬂammation
PERMANENT DIAGNOSIS: SAME.

 

Page 8 of 8 END OF REPORT

