 

 

 

°°B”C§§;f;§:f "umsaris-rarest?“ma". . d
- ‘ ‘ ' ' e 3C e
gggggggggggz IllIllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
specimemvd; Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Accession No; Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
, ”holes to:
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT 1
CLINICAL DETAILS

 

magma. Right occipital lesion - histopathology. Scalp lesion. Tumour Banking. l. Scalp lesion- section
taken for Tumour Banking. (Note there is a diagram on the request form explaining where the tumour
banking section was taken from). 2. (R) occipital- No tumour banking specimen taken.

MACROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION /CD - 0 ’3

(Dr W,Nﬂ$ 8720/3
gm; SbN,SL4Lp am 4 Mme/r,

 

Two specimens were received.

1. "SCALP LESION". An ellipse of skin 62 x 34mm to a depth of 5mm, bearing a centrally pale nodule 17 x
17mm. A section has been taken ﬁ'om the nodule for tumour banking. Surgical margins inked blue and
black differentially. The cut surface reveals the nodule to be darkly pigmented. Five serial sections made
through the lesion embedded in block A to E consecutively. Both poles are macroscopically uninvolved.

2. "RIGHT OCCIPITAL LESION". An unorientated ellipse of skin 42 x 17mm to a depth of 21mm, bearing
a scar at one pole 7 x 2mm. A palpable nodule is located within the subcutaneous tissue

9 x 7 x 7mm. Surgical margins inked blue. Three transverse sections made through the lesion embedded in
blocks A to C consecutively.

l. "SCALP LESION"

The sections show skin to the level of subcutis. Within the reticular dermis and subcutis is a l5mm, well-
circumscribed, unencapsulated tumour nodule, composed of epithelioid cells with oval, pleomorphic nuclei,
prominent nucleoli and with a brisk mitotic rate. An area of necrosis is noted. Many cells contain
intracytoplasmic brown pigment, and abundant melanophages are present. The tumour cells are positive for
Sl00, HMB45 and Melan A. The features are those of melanoma, and given the location and the lack of
connection to the overlying, unremarkable epidermis would be consistent with metastatic melanoma.

The tumour nodule is 0.1mm from the deep margin and 5mm from the radial margins.

2. "RIGHT OCCIPITAL LESION"
The sections show skin to the level of subcutis. Within the subcutis is a 7mm tumour nodule with similar

appearance to specimen l and consistent with metastatic melanoma, which lies 0.5mm from the deep margin.
This lies next to a large vessel in the subcutis.

{Legal-I‘d w 155.
SQMMABY "
1. SJQLSC‘AIQ - MELANOMA.
/ .._.._ .-___

2. Skinﬁghtoccipital region - MELAI‘IOMA.

REPORTED BY: Dr.

 

  

A Unit of
Page 1 ol 1

