 

Surgical Pathology Report

Diagnosis:
A: Kidney, left, radical nephrectomy

Histologic tumor type/subtype: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type
Histologic grade (if applicable): Fuhrrnan nuclear grade 4 (of 4)
Tumor size (greatest dimension): 16.0 cm by gross examination

Extent of tumor invasion:

Capsular invasionfperirenal adipose tissue: Not identiﬁed
Gerota' s fascia: Not identiﬁed

Renal vein: Present

Ureter: Not identiﬁed

Venous (large vessel) Present

Lymphatic (small vessei): Not identiﬁed

Histologic assessment of surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: Negative

Gerota' s fascia: Negative

Renal vein: Negative

Renal artery: Negative

Ureter: Negative

Adrenal gland: Not submitted

Lymph nodes: Separately submitted in specimen B.

Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: Tumor invades renal sinus soft tissues

AJCC Staging: pT3a le

This staging information is based on information available at the time of this repon, and is subiect to change
pending clinical review and additional information.

B: Lymph nodes, left hilar, lymph node dissection
— Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in one of ﬁfteen lymph nodes (1115).

Clinical History:
with bilateral renal masses.

Gross Description:
Received are two appropriately labeled containers.

Container A is additionally labeled "left kidney."
Specimen ﬁxation: formalin

Type of specimen: hand assisted laparoscopic nephrectomy

TCGAwBB~5158

 

Side of specimen: left

Size and weight of specimen: 1,250 grams; 33 x 19 x 10.5 cm overall
Orientation: The external surface is inked green.

Presence/absence of adrenal gland: not present

Tumor descriptionlsite: lower pole of the left kidney; The tumor obliterates the lower pole, greatly expands the
capsule inferiorly, ﬁlls the pelvis inferiorly, and tracks through the renal parenchyma up to the superior pole.

Tumor size: 16 x 7 x 7 cm
Presence/absence of multicentricity: The tumor is unicentric

Conﬁnement/noil-conﬁnement to the kidney: conﬁned; no areas of deﬁnite extracapsular extension seen

Extent of invasion:

Perirenal adipose tissue: defer to histologic sections; grossly conﬁned
Gerota‘ s fascia: not involved (not present on the specimen)

Renal vein: involved

Ureter: grossly not involved

Other organs: not applicable

Surgical margins:

Perirenal adipose tissue: negative

Renal vein: defer to histologic sections
Renal artery: defer to histologic sections
Ureter: defer to histologic sections

Description of kidney away from tumor: brown/tan, unremarkable renal parenchyma

Lymph nodes (hilar): per block summary
Other signiﬁcant ﬁndings: none

Tissue submitted for special investigations: yes; Tumor and normal to TiSSue Procurement
Digital photograph taken: no
Block summary:

Al - ureter and vascular margins

A2—A4 — tumor in renal sinus/hilar fat

A5 — thick walled vessel/tubular structure in the perirenal fat

A6 — renal vein involved by tumor with sections of renal artery grossly
negative for tumor

A7 - perirenal adipose tissue anteriorly, representative perpendicular
margin (widely negative)

A8-A9 - tumor at capsule

AID-A13 - tumor abutting the capsule

A14 — pericapsular adipose tissue and adjacent kidney

A15 - tumor and adjacent renal parenchyma

A16 - tumor and renal pelvis

A17 ~ tumor and renal pelvis

 

A18 ~ superior kidney pole involved by tumor
A19 - grossly uninvolved kidney
A20 - renal fat and capsule

Container B is additionally labeled "left hilar lymph node." The container holds an aggregate of yellow/tan ﬁbrofatty
tissue loosely measuring 5 x 4 x 2 cm. Several signiﬁcantly enlarged lymph node candidates with rough capsular
surface are identiﬁed, the largest measuring 2.6 x 1.9 x 1.4 cm.

Block summary:

Bleéi - largest lymph node candidate, serially sectioned

B536 - second largest lymph node candidate/several lymph nodes matted
together, bisected

B7 — one lymph node candidate

B8 — one lymph node candidate

B9 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

B10 — one lymph node candidate, bisected

Fatty tissue remains in the container.

Grossing Pathologist:
Light Microscopy:
Light microscopic examination is performed.

 

 

