DIAGNOSIS:

PP’N

Renal, tumor #1, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #4, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #5, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #2, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #3, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #6, left, partial nephrectomy:
Renal, tumor #7, left, partial nephrectomy:

Renal, tumor #8, left, partial nephrectomy:

Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.
Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.
Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.
Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.
Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.
Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.

Renal cell carcinoma, chromophobe type.

ll / Ill. Renal cell Carcinoma, Chromophobe type. See note.

 

Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Fuhrman nuclear grade

Renal, tumor #9, left, partial nephrectomy: Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type, Fuhrman nuclear grade
II / |||. Renal cell carcinoma, Chromophobe type. See note.

NOTE: In specimens 8 and 9, two grossly and morphologically different tumor masses are identiﬁed; one is a
clear cell RCC and the other one an RCC chromophobe type.

 

Fjatient identiﬁcation _'

 

Page 1 of 5

 

 

 

Immunoperoxidase and in-situ h bridization tests erformed here and used for diagnosis were developed and their performance
characteristics determined by them They have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. The FDA has also e ermine a suc c earance or approval is not necessary. This laboratory is certiﬁed under the Clinical
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of-(CLIA) as qualiﬁed to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.

CLINICAL INFORMATION“ Brief Clinical Historyzlyo
male with bilateral renal tumors an no nown ml hrsto o renal

PROCEDURE: Pre-Operative Diagnosis: renal tumors Post—Operative Diagnosis: renal
tumors Operative Findings: diffuse involvement of left kidney with

renal tumors; minimal normal parenchyma observed on intraoperative

sonogram

SPECIMENS SUBMITTED: 1. TUMOR, Left kidney #1 (1FS)
2. TUMOR, Left kidney # 4 (2FS)

3. TUMOR, Left kidney # 5 (3FS)

4. TUMOR, Left kidney # 2

5. TUMOR, Left kidney # 3

6. TUMOR, Left kdieny # 6

7. TUMOR, Left kidney # 7

8. TUMOR, Left kidney # 8

9. TUMOR, Left kidney # 9

INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION:

1. “Tumor #1 left kidney"
1FS diagnosis: Oncocytic neoplasm, favoring onc0cytoma.

2. "Tumor #4 left kidney"
’ 2FS diagnosis: Oncocytic neoplasm.

3. “Tumor #5 left kidney"
3FS diagnosis: Oncocytic neoplasm.

These ﬁndings were reported by—

GROSS DESCRIPTION:

 

Patient Identiﬁcation

 

Page 2 of 5

 

Received fresh from the OR is a specimen labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and further
speciﬁed as:

1.

”tumor #1 left kidney". It is an ovoid red to pink nodular tissue fragment measuring 2 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm. It is
trisected revealing a pink-tan homogeneous cut surface. The central slice is frozen as “1FS". Received in
the Gross Pathology Lab is a specimen matching the above description. The portion submitted as frozen
section is transferred to an orange Cassette labeled 1FS. A second of the trisected pieces is submitted in
cassette labeled or permanent processing.

“tumor #4 left kidney”. It consists of a red to tan 2.5 x 1.8 x 1 cm tissue fragment. It was trisected and the
middle section is submitted as 2FS. Received in the Gross Pathology Lab is a specimen matching the
above description. The section submitted for frozen is transferred to an orange cassette labeled 2FS for
permanent processing. Representative further sections are taken and submitted in cassettes 2A and ZB.

“tumor #5 left kidney". It consists of a red-tan 5 x 5 x 3.5-cm tissue fragment. It was bisected to reveal a
red to tan hemorrhagic cut surface. Representative sections are frozen as 3FS. Received in the Gross
Pathology Lab is a Specimen matching the above description. The frozen specimen was transferred to an
orange cassette labeled 3FS for permanent processing. Cassettes 3A—3G contains representative
sections of the tumor.

“tumor #2 left kidney". It is a dome-shaped red to pink nodular tissue fragment measuring 2 x 1.4 x 0.7
cm. It is bisected revealing a homogeneous tan to pink cut surface with central hemorrhage.
Approximately 60% of the tissue is procured for UOB. Gross photographs are taken and the remainder of
the specimen is placed in formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. In the Gross
Pathology Lab a specimen matching the above description is received. It is entirely submitted in a
cassette labeled ' )r permanent processing.

“Tumor #3 left kidney". It is a dome-shaped red to pink nodular tissue fragment measuring 1.8 x 1.4 x 0.5
cm. It is bisected revealing a hemorrhagic maroon/red cut surface. Approximately 50% of the tissue is
procured for UOB. Gross photographs are taken and the remainder of the specimen is placed into

formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. Received in the Gross Pathology Lab is a
specimen matching the above description. A representative section is submitted in a cassette labeled
" )r permanent processing.

“Tumor #6 left kidney". The specimen is a spherical pink to red nodular tissue fragment measuring 4.8 x
4.8 x 4.7 cm. It is bisected revealing a focally disrupted tan to pink nodular tissue fragment that is
homogeneous. The surface is tan to pink and fleshy. Approximately 30% of the tissue is procured for
UOB. Gross photographs are taken and the remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin and
submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. Received in the Gross Pathology Lab is a specimen
matching the above description. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 6A-6E. Cassette 6A

 

Patient identiﬁcation

1

' 'I

 

Page 3 of 5

 

 

contains a portion of adjacent tissue that has a distinct smooth creamy texture compared to the rest of the
lesion. '

“Tumor #7 left kidney”. The specimen consists of 2 fragments that are red to tan soft tissue and 1 yellow
to pink soft tissue fragment measuring from 2.5 to 4.5 cm in greatest dimension. The largest fragment is
bisected revealing a variegated maroon to pink hemorrhagic cut surface measuring 4.5 x 3.5 x 3.
Approximately 50% of tissue from the largest fragment is procured for UOB. Gross photographs are
taken and 'the remainder of the specimen is placed into formalin and submitted to Pathology for
permanent processing. Received in the Gross Pathology Lab is a specimen matching the above
description. Representative sections are taken and submitted in cassettes labeled 7A-7F for permanent
processrng.

“Tumor #8 left kidney" is a focally disrupted ovoid pink to tan nodular tissue fragment measuring 5.5 x 5 x
3.5 cm. It is bisected revealing a tan-pink ﬂeshy cut surface with a well-circumscribed yellow to tan
spherical nodule, 1.2 cm in greatest diameter, at the periphery. Approximately 50% of the tissue,
spherical tan nodule, and 20% of the rest of the specimen are procured. The remainder of the specimen
is placed into formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. Received in the Gross
Pathology Lab is a specimen matching the above description. Representative sections of the specimen
are taken and submitted in cassettes 8A—8E. Please note that 8E contains a representative section of the
nodule described.

"Tumor #9 left kidney". It is a binodular pink to tan tissue fragment overall measuring 2 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm.
One nodule is well-circumscribed and solid homogeneous and tan measuring 1.3 cm. The other is ill-
deﬁned, hemorrhagic, and variegated maroon to tan and measuring 1.2 cm. Approximately 50% of tissue
is procured for UOB. Gross photographs are taken and the remainder of the specimen is placed into
formalin and submitted to Pathology for permanent processing. Received in Pathology is a specimen
matching the above description. The two fragments are submitted in white cassettes labeled 9A and QB.

 

——
@—

-dentiﬁcation ,.

 

 

-4of5

 

 

Patient Identiﬁcation Surgical Pathology Report
‘ ' ’ NIH-2772 (7/97)
’ P.A. 09-25-0099
File in Section 3: Tissue Examination
Page 5 of 5

 

