 

QC Patholc gist:

FINAL PAT HGLOGIC DlAGNOSIS:
Colon. rlgh‘; segmental resection:
Tumor Che raderieﬁes:

. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma.
Histologio grade: Moderately differentiated

Tumor site: Right colon .

Tumor site: 3.0 x 2.? x 0.5 cm. '

Lymphcvascular space invasion: Not identiﬁed.

. Perforation of visceral peﬁtoneum: Nag.)

Present» of meeenteric deposits: No. -

. Depth of invasion: Tumor invades submuoosa but not to
the muscularis’propria.

Surgical Margin Status:

1. Proximal margin: Negative

2. Distal margin: Negative.

3. Deep (ladial) margin: Negative. . _

4. Distance of tumor from closest mar-gin: Approximately 1
cm from the inked deep surface. '

cu

WFGWPPN*

Lymph Node Status:

1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: 22

2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic
mminoma: None {0122).

Other:

1. Other signiﬁcant fmdinge: Tubular adenomae:

hyperplasﬁc polyp
2. pTNM stage: 19'“ N0.

commalrrs: . r

CLINICAL HISTORY:
Preoperative Diagnosis:_wiih right colon
cancer

Postoperative Diagnosis:
Symptom“ isadiologic Findings:
SPECIMI ENS:

Right colon

 

 

J 9

'J ..

'c?_-‘.

11

 

 

 

Pnocaounnr. o comer-nos: ' ' ; L. i. ' ..
Date of Procedure ' . ' -
Accession Datefli " ' "

GROSS DES CRIP'i'iON: ‘
The specimnn is received' in a single formalin ﬁlled
container labeled with the patients name

'right colon' and consists of a right hernioolectomy specimen
comprised of terminal ileum (4.5 cm in length x 2.0 cm in
diameter). oecumlright colon (10.5 cm in length and ranging
from 4.5 up to ?.0 cm in diameter). and venniform‘appendix
(8.0 cm in length and ranging from 0.5 to 0.9 cm in
diameter}. "the specimen is received stapled closed at both
ends. The serosa is tan-gray. smooth to shaggy with adherent
yellow-tan mesooolonic fat On opening. the wall averages
0. 7 cm in thickness. Located within the proximal colon is a
3. 0 x 2. 7 1: ll. 5 cm pink-tan fungailng mass that approaches
to within 6. £1 cm of both the iieal and colonic margins. On
section this mass extends to abut the muscularis and
approaches to within 1.0 cm 0f the inked deep surface.
Discrete muscle invasion is not identiﬁed grossly. The
remainder of the mucosa is remarkable for multiple pink-tan
poiypold lesions ranging from 0.3 up to 1.4 cm in greatest
dimension. These approach to within 2.5 cm of the colonic
margin and 3.5 cm of the ileai margin. On section. all are
conﬁned to the mucosa. The appendix is sectioned to reveal
a pinpoint irmen with no perforations or fecaliths. On
section and palpation, multiple firm fatty possible lymph
nodes are idenﬁfled within the associated fat. They range
from 0.3 up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Representative
sections are submitted in cassettes 1-14 labeled 713
Breedlove designated as follows: 1. lies! margin. en face;

2. colonic margin. on face; 345. entire mass to inked deep
marglnz—s-ia-seotionsrto-inciudewhole poiypoid lesions: 8,
two full thickness sections to include entire largest

polypoid le sion: 9. vermiforrn appendix; 1042. ﬁve whole
possible lynph nodes in each cassette: 13. four whole
possible lymph nodes: 14. three whole possible lymph nodes.

Additionalir. a llow. green. and blue cases
suhmttied for _-..

 

 

