 

UUID : “967429-23AE-4393-BBBE-B§39AC1AC399

 

TCGA-Iw-ASMS-BlA—PR Redacted

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII *

III IIII l II|||l II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I I II IIIIIIII III III II III

III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIllIIlIII III
FialhologisI . Ordering MD;
ASSIslanl:
Date of Procedure copies lo:
Date Received:

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

oucnosrst... . .

A. FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, RIGHT, SALPINGO—OOPHERECTOMY:
~ Fallopian tube with tuba-ovarian adhesion
— Paratubal cysts lined by benign serous epithelium (hydatids of Morgagni)
‘ Ovary with atrophic changes, a cystic epithelial inclusion, and serosal
adhesions
- Paraovarian cystic and solid Walthard rests
- No evidence of metastatic tumor

8. C. UTERUS. BIOPSY OF MASS LESION AND TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY,
AND FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY, LEFT, SALPINGOOOPHORECTOMY:
- Primary uterine leiomyosarcoma (see comment)
- Estimated maximum tumor size: 13.5 cm (borders not well delineated)
- Tumor breaches serosa (extends through serosal surface)
- Tumor focally extends into endometrium
- No lymphatic or blood vessel invasion by tumor identiﬁed
- Cervix is free of tumor
- Secondary involvement of atrophic ovary by Ieiomyosarcoma
- No evidence of metastatic tumor involving fallopian tube
« Inactive to weakly proliferative endometrium
- Cervix with atrophic squamous changes, chronic inﬂammation, squamous
metaplasia and nabothian cysts
- Fallopian tube with loci of mullerian (ovarian-like) stroma at fimbriated end
- Paratubal endosalpingiosis and Walthard rests

COMMENT: The tumor exhibits mostly “conventional” spindle cell features, but there
are also some pleomorphic tumor cells, a minor myxold tumor component, and a small
subpopulation of tumor cells with cytoplasmic clearing (latter are consistent with a minor
component of tumor with features of epithelioid Ieiomyosarcoma). The tumor exhibits
increased mitotic activity with a few atypical mitoses, low to high grade cellular atypia.
and areas of necrosis, including so—called coagulative-type tumor cell necrosis.
Pathologic tumor stage is assigned as follows: pTZa, NX. A selected section of the
primarv uterine tumor and sections of tumor involving the right ovary were also reviewed
by and , who agree with my diagnostic interpretation [$062b}.
The preliminary findings were conveyed to Dr. ‘

/ com a , 3 ,
. V . ﬂu, 5W N95 . 5370/3
memes: \ 5%: ail/1m), 0 53:7 - :
N0:

 

Copy For -
ﬂags 1 of 4

 

 

 

 

 

M.“ ..., Mu...“ .. WW.“ .w u. .mWWW WM «W .ww- «

  

Desmin ' I C16.C17

 

PATIENT:

Postmenopausal bleeding; personal history of breast cancer on Tamoxifen; family history of ovarian
cancer

MICROSCOEIGFINDINGSL ‘ ' .
See diagnosis.

 

Smooth muscle cells and many spindle cells in the ovarian
slroma exhibil positive staining.

     
 

 

Vimenlin C16 Mesenchymal cells (strornal and smooth muscle cells)
exhibit positive staining

 

Ki—67 QT (:16 Some (less than 15%) of the neoplastic smooth muscle
cells in the ovary exhibit positive nuclear staining.

 

Actin, smooth muscle 616, C17 Smooth muscle cells and some ovarian slromal cells
exhibit positive staining

 

lnhibin (:16. Cl? No speciﬁc staining is identiﬁed,

 

“Kip? QT. man A6 Less than 5% of the epithelial cells In the distal right
fallopian tube exhibit positive nuclear staining.

 

Ki-67 QT, man 022 Less than 2% of the epithelial cells in the distal left fallopian
tube exhibit positive nuclear staining.

 

P53 QT, man A6 There are scattered individual epithelial cells and a few
short runs of epithelial cells in the distal right fallopian tube
that exhibit positive nuclear staining. No runs of 12 or more
consecutive positive nuclei are identiﬁed, in. more is no
evidence of a so-called p53 signature proﬁle.

 

 

 

 

 

P53 QT. man 022 Scattered rare epithelial cells in the distal lell fallopian tube
exhibit positive nuclear staining. No runs of 12 or more
consecutive positive nuclei are identiﬁed, i e. there is no
evidence of a so-called p53 signature profile.

 

 

 

 

 

'These ll-lC studies were interpreted in conjunction with appropriate positive and negative controls which
demonstrated the expected positive and negative reactivity.

 

636835“
A. RlGl-lT TUBE AND OVARY
Labeled with the patients name \ designated "right tube and ovary", and received in formalin
is a 6.6 gram salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The ovary is about 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The ﬁmbriated
fallopian tube is 5.0 cm long. ranges from 0.3 to 0.5 cm in diameter and has a luminal diameter of 0.1 cm.

    

 

No gross tumor is seen in the ovary or fallopian tube.

Adhesions are present behaveen the ovary and fallopian tube. The ovary is atrophic and otherwise grossly
unremarkable. There is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm unilocular paratubal cyst attached to the distal segment of
the fallopian tube. The cyst contains clear fluid. The fallopian tube is otherwiSe unremarkable.

Fallopian tube and ovary entirely submitted.
Slide key:

A1. A2. Ovary - 4 each
A3. Proximal fallopian tube - 6

 

SURGECAL PATHOLOGY R£PORT

Page 2 0H

 

 

 

A4. Mid fallopian tube — 4
A5. Distal fallopian tube including paratubal cyst — 3
A6. Fimbriated end - 4

B. UTERlNE MASS FOR FROZEN SECTlON

Labeled with the patient‘s name designated "uterine mass for frozen section".~ and received
fresh for intraoperatlve frozen section evaluation and subsequently ﬁxed in formalin is a 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.5
cm portion of soft tan tissue with focal hemorrhage.

Sectioning reveals tan soft tissue with focal hemorrhage.
Representative sections, including the entire frozen section remnant, are submitted.

Slide key:
81. FSB frozen section remnant- 1
B2. Additional sections - 2

C. UTERUS WITH CERVlX FOR FROZEN SECTlON WlTH LEFT TUBE AND OVARY

Labeled with the patient's name designated "uterus with cervix for frozen section with left
tube and ovary". and received fresh for intraoperative gross evaluation and subsequently fixed in formalin
is a 650 gram intact total hysterectomy and left salpingo-oophorectomy specimen. The uterus is about
14.5 x 10.0 x 9.0 cm. The cervical portion of the uterus is 2.3 cm long and up to 3.5 cm in diameter. The
endometrial cavity is 4.5 cm long and up to 1.3 cm in width. The endometrlal mucosa is up to 0.1 cm in
thickness. The muscular uterine wall ranges from 1.5 to 2.5 cm. No vaginal cuff or parametrial tissues
are present. The left ovary is about 2.3 x 1.1 x 0.8 cm. The ﬁmbriated left fallopian tube is 5.8 cm long.
ranges from 0.3 to 0.4 cm in diameter, and has a maximum luminal diameter of 0.1 cm.

 

There is a poorly delineated, heterogenous tumor that diffusely involves the myometrium from the lower
uterine segment to the fundus in the anterior and posterior segments. The tumor is estimated to be about
13.5 x 9.5 x 9.0 cm in greatest overall dimensions. in the lower uterine segment. the tumor is ten, semiu
firm, has a whorled conﬁguration and appears viable. Tan-yellow semi-soft areas that may be necrotic are
present in the portion of the tumor in left lateral uterine corpus. The remainder of the tumor is soft. tan.
and focally hemorrhagic. and shows additional areas of possible necrosis. No gross tumor is seen in the
endometrium or cervix. The tumor protrudes from the left anterolateral serosal surface as a
pseudopolypoid 2.5 x 2.3 x 0.9 cm yellow mass, but elsewhere is confined to the uterine wall. The
uterine serosa on the left lateral surface is indented, fibrotic, and irregular. The left adnexal structures are
adherent to the utems in the vicinity of tumor and the ovary may be secondarily involved. No gross tumor
is seen in the fallopian tube.

 

No gross pathologio lesions of the endometrium are seen. The cervix is remarkable only for several
mucus-tilled cysts, the largest of which is about 0.2 cm in diameter. The ovary also shows atrophic
changes. No gross pathologic lesions of the fallopian tube (proper) are identified.

 

Photographs of the specimen are obtained.

ink key:

Black - Posterior serosa. 3;:
Blue ~ Anterior serosa. iii
The ovary and fallopian tube are each entirely embedded. Representative sections of the uterus. 3

including uterine cervix. are submitted.

Slide key:
C1. Anterior cerwx - t
C2. Posterior cervix - 1

 

SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

 

Page 3 of 4

 

C3. Anterior lower uterine segment wrth portion of tumor - 1

C4, CS. Yellow area of uterine tumor extending through serosa (left anterolateral corpus), bisected - 1
each

CB. C7. Anterior corpus, bisected. with viableappearing tumor — 1 each
CB, 09. Soft area of tumor, anterior corpus. bisected - 1 each

Cior Uterine fundus with focally hemorrhagic tumor - 1

Ci 1. Posterior fundus with viabteappearing tumor - 1

C12, 013. Posterior corpus. bisected, with viable‘appearing tumor - 1 each
C14. Posterior left lower uterine segment with viable-appearing tumor - 1
C15. Softer areas of uterine tumor ~ 2

016-018. Ovary in relation to tumor ~ 4 each

C19. Proximat fallopian tube - 3

C20. Mid faliopian tube - 3

621, Distal fallopian tube. - 3

022. F imbriated end of fallopian tube - 3

Gross dictated by

imemmeeouemmmm ~ :> \
OPERATNE CONSULT (FROZEN):

 

F881 (UTERINE MASS):
~ Cellular Spindle cell lesion with atypia. Differential includes oeilular teiomyoma versus
leiomyosarcoma. Deter to permanent
(
OPERATlVE CONSULT (GROSS)

{SPECIMEN C]:
~ No gross endometrial lesion, Myometrial mass. Defer.

[Tumor] saved for research.

l have personally examined the specimen, interpreted the results, reviewed the report and signed it electronicaily.
MD, Eiectromcally signer

 
 
  
   
   
 
 

Crherla
Maori: Disrrepanrv

HIPM
Prior

 

  

Case i1
Reviewer

$URG|CAL PATHOLOGY REPORT

it this report mam)” immunolwsrmnemw on. warm Mensa note the following Numerous i‘mmunoinatochemi'cal tests were developed and their
performance characteristics detamned by 3 Those

immunofuslochemical tests have not been demo or appmvcu uy a. 7., .,, v. . --- o. .- -m, w.........v...,\,,, ”UN, a...“ .m approval is not reour'recl.

Page 4 of 4

   
 

I/7/

 

 

fit;

 

